skip to main content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversitySpecial Collections and University Archives Special Collections and University Archives About Us About The Collections Digitized Collections Ask Us Search The Collections Marquette.edu // Raynor Memorial Libraries // Archives // General Information and Services Location The Department of Special Collections and University Archives is located on the third floor of the John P. Raynor, S.J., Library, Room R360. A map of Marquette University offers directions to campus and information on parking. Hours In order to better serve all researchers seeking assistance from Special Collections and University Archives, our hours for research are by appointment only. Available reading room hours are M - F, 8 AM - 4:30 PM Visitor hours for those outside of the Marquette community are 9 AM - 4:30 PM We are not open evenings or weekends You must make an appointment at least 24 hours in advance for all research-related visits to the archives. Please note: if you are interested in making an appointment for a Monday, please contact us no later than noon on the Friday prior to your visit, so that we can have materials ready for you. Only researchers with an appointment will be admitted to the reading room. Feel free to contact an archivist about your research needs online Visitors interested in viewing the J. R. R. Tolkien display are welcome during the library’s visitor hours; visitors can request admittance at the library’s main circulation desk on Raynor Library’s first floor. All visitors must follow the Library's current COVID questionnaire protocols. Mask wearing is optional. If you have questions, please feel free to contact the Head of Special Collections and University Archives, Amy Cooper Cary at amy.cary@marquette.edu Mailing Address Department of Special Collections and University Archives Raynor Memorial Libraries 1355 W. Wisconsin Avenue Milwaukee, WI 53233 P.O. Box 3141 Milwaukee, WI 53201-3141 Access Holdings are available for public use, although patrons from off campus must obtain either a daily limited research pass or annual research pass. For more information please see the Libraries' Visitor Policy. Some collections may also be subject to restrictions placed by donors or university offices. All researchers sign a registration form that includes an agreement to abide by rules governing use. Access to records is provided through archival descriptive inventories and MARQCAT, the Raynor Memorial Libraries' online catalog. To insure the availability of records and audio/visual equipment, researchers visiting from outside the Marquette campus are asked to write or phone in advance. Interlibrary loan borrowing is available for some materials described in these guidelines. Reading Room Rules Use of materials in the Prucha Archives Reading Room is conditional upon the following rules and procedures. Registration and Personal Property Upon arrival, visitors must register with the reading room attendant. Personal belongings, including coats, briefcases, backpacks, book bags and purses, are not permitted in the reading room. These items may be stored in the lockers near the entry. Laptop computers are permitted in the reading room provided they are removed from their cases and their use does not disturb other researchers. Permission must be obtained during the registration process in order to use cameras, scanners and other image-reproduction devices. Cell phone ringers should be set to silent. Calls should not be taken in the reading room. The archives staff reserves the rights to inspect notes and photocopies during your visit. Use of Archival Material Food, beverages and tobacco are forbidden in the reading room. Materials from Special Collections and Archives do not circulate and may not be removed from the reading room. Collections are maintained in areas closed to the public. Requests for all items are filled on demand, although paging from our off-site collection storage may require up to 40 minutes. The attendant reserves the right to limit the number of materials requested at a time. To safeguard the integrity of documents researchers must maintain the original order of materials. If there is any doubt as to the order of documents please notify the room attendant. Researchers must use one box at a time and examine one folder at a time. All materials must be handled with care. Do not mark, erase or trace upon any documents. The attendant may supply visitors examining photographic materials with cotton gloves. Archival materials must remain in clear view of the attending staff at all times. The use of certain documents may be restricted by law or the office of origin/donor. For the protection of its holdings, the department reserves the right to restrict the use of materials that are not arranged or are in the process of being arranged, materials of exceptional value and fragile materials. Photocopy & Reproduction Services Due to copyright, format or their fragile nature, not all materials can be reproduced. Staff will seek to complete photocopy requests during your visit, but some requests may require several business days, and are subject to reproduction fees. Archives staff may decline to provide photocopies whenever adequate alternatives are available on microfilm, within digital collections or other media. Please confer with the attendant about additional information on photocopying and scanning. Never separate any material selected for reproduction. Copyright Permission to publish, reproduce or display many unpublished documentary sources, beyond the bounds of “fair use,” must be obtained from the holder of the copyright. It is the researcher’s responsibility to secure that permission. The archives’ furnishing of a print or digital copy for private study is not authorization to publish. Furthermore, the written permission of the Raynor Memorial Libraries must be obtained, before publication, to use any item or quotation beyond fair use. Please consult with an archivist about specific collection guidelines and consult our Application for Printing, Publication or Exhibit of Photographic Materials. Additional copyright information is available at the archives reference desk. By agreeing to these terms, the research agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Marquette University and its staff against all suits, claims, actions and expenses arising out of his/her use of the unpublished materials here. Citations Please use the following credit: Marquette University, Department of Special Collections and University Archives. Information about preparing proper citations is available upon request. Note: Researchers in the Department of Special Collections and University Archives are required to read and sign the Reading Room Rules form. In assisting users, staff members often become aware of research projects that are closely related or parallel. Most users find it helpful to know about researchers engaged in similar projects. On signing the form in the Reading Room, researchers are given the option of checking a box at the bottom of the rules sheet if they wish to have their name and the information on their research shared. If they do not check the box, the nature of the user's research will be considered strictly confidential. Staff Amy Cooper Cary, Head of Special Collections and University Archives PHONE: (414) 288-5901 FAX: (414) 288-6709 amy.cary@marquette.edu Katie Blank, University / Digital Records Archivist PHONE: (414) 288-8741 FAX: (414) 288-6709 katherine.blank@marquette.edu William Fliss, Archivist PHONE: (414) 288-5906 FAX: (414) 288-6709 william.fliss@marquette.edu Susan Stawicki-Vrobel, Archival Technical Assistant PHONE: (414) 288-7256 FAX: (414) 288-6709 susan.stawicki@marquette.edu Hospitality Helps provides information on food, nearby lodging and special needs for visitors to Special Collections and Archives. Visit Marquette University provides general information on travel, parking and lodging for visitors to Marquette University whereas Visit Milwaukee provides extensive information about the city. Marquette Archives About the Marquette Archives About the Collections Search the Collections Photo and AV Requests Departmental News Digitized Collections Ask an Archivist On This Page: Location and Hours Access Reading Room Rules Collecting Policy Mailing Address Cooperative Access Program Staff Hospitality Helps Location Raynor Memorial Libraries 1355 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Information Desk: (414) 288-7556 Key Resources Library contacts Library floor plans Borrowing policies Hours Library accounts eMarq (email) CheckMarq Desire2Learn (D2L) Libraries A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ Problem with this webpage? Report an accessibility problem. To report another problem, please contact: brendan.lenzner@marquette.edu Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University Have a suggestion? ©