Skip to main content Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects Search this site Main menu About Services Standards & Policies Sustainability Capital Process Maps Franklin Field Franklin Field View on the Campus Map » Print This U‑shaped stadium is one of the main campus landmarks, occupying nearly the entire block on which it sits, and facing the main part of the campus. The exterior articulation denotes two superimposed rows of stands. The ornament of the exterior consists primarily of the grandeur of its large and heroic form, featuring high, open arcades. The curved end section is set off from the sides by concave arched sections. Cast stone quoin‑like bands mark the exterior. The stadium is crowned by a northern Italian style, brick, battlemented parapet. An excellently designed football stadium and venue for the Penn Relays track and field event, with accommodations of , approximately 70,000 seats. It is the oldest two-tiered stadium in the nation and at one time served as host to the Army-Navy games and the Philadelphia Eagles. Concrete Restoration Restoration of the concrete of the 1922 Franklin Field continued through FY21 and is currently in its fourth and final $9.7M phase. The $46.5M total project cost included concrete repairs followed by cathodic protection of the steel rebar and a new membrane coating to extend the life of the stadium. Franklin Field Location Address 233 South 33rd Street Philadelphia PA, 19104 Franklin Field Building Code: 165 Gross Area (sq. ft.): 164,852 Phase: Total Project Cost: Year Built: 1922 Floors: 8 Architect: Day & Klauder Other Name: Franklin Field Stadium External Links: Penn Athletics | Penn Recreation | Franklin Field Download Penn Access PDF: Accessibility Area Manager: Mike Ferraiolo mikeferr@upenn.edu 215-898-5986 Building Manager: Keith Maurer maurer@pobox.upenn.edu 215-573-8723 Maps Building Locations Annenberg School for Communication Arts and Sciences Education Law Dental Medicine Design Engineering and Applied Science Nursing Perelman School of Medicine Social Policy and Practice Vet Medicine Wharton: Philadelphia Athletics Student Housing Libraries Galleries + Performing Centers Current Construction Penn Hospitals Off Campus Penn Connects Public Art Bike Racks Discover Penn Public Parking Printing the Campus Map PennAccess Location List Facilities & Real Estate Services 3101 Walnut St Philadelphia, Pa 19104 Emergency/Vehicular Address: 3160 Chestnut Street (proceed to the glass Pavilion at end of the parking lot) © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Report accessibility issues and get help » Webmaster Contact » Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Standards & Policies Standards Policies Safety Procedures Sustainability Energy Management Built Environment Waste Management and Recycling Collaborative Efforts Capital Process Initiate a Project Capital Planning Facilities Renewal Maps and Locations Building Locations Penn Connects Public Art Bike Racks Discover Penn Public Parking Printing the Campus Map PennAccess Location List Contacts Penn Community Penn Homepage