Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Biomedical Sciences News National Goldwater Scholarships Go to Four UCF STEM Students Students are conducting research in the areas of health, math, chemistry and space and are already making an impact. DACA Student Prepares to Graduate with Gratitude to Family, UCF Ruben Mercado Santos hopes to become a doctor one day to help others and make his family, who has made many sacrifices since moving to the U.S., proud. Knights on the Rise Three months after COVID-19 forced UCF to transition to remote instruction, a surprising trend has emerged: Summer enrollment is up. These three stories shed some light onto why. Pharmaceutical Testing Technology Developed at UCF for Immune Response Shows Promise for Multi-Organ Diseases New technology holds the promise of accelerating medical research and drug testing, potentially delivering life-saving breakthroughs much more quickly than the typical 10-year trajectory most drugs take to get to market. UCF Students Form Organization to Work Together Against COVID-19 When the coronavirus hit Central Florida, Daniela Vulpe and Victoria Orindas saw that many charitable organizations had to slow down or stop due to health… Delivering Good Healthcare Means Harnessing Good Communication Skills Student researcher looks to improve healthcare information delivery to diverse communities. How Safe Are BPA-Free Plastics? A graduating biomedical sciences student is testing plastic compounds to see if they are OK to use for food storage. UCF Researchers Work to Cut Away Brain Plaque Linked to Alzheimer’s Disease Team’s findings may one day help offset the disease’s devastating symptoms of cognitive decline, dementia and memory loss. UCF’s Highest-achieving Students are Making an Impact through Research Several of the 2019 Order of Pegasus honorees have studied fields as diverse as tidal flooding, migraine headaches, plastic pollution and other topics. UCF Student’s Viral Dalmatian Shows How Service Dogs Can Help with Depression Casey Bruno ’18’s service dog helped her overcome depression, and her viral appreciation post for the pup let others to see just how valuable these animals can be. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida