COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU Email Policy Section Menu ITS Main Page Policies and Procedures Manual Policy Relating to University Information Technology Systems Relative to E-mail Initiating Authority: General Counsel Accountability: Vice President for Academic Affairs Purpose: To state University policy with regard to the use of University information technology systems relative to E-mail Preamble Technology resources provided by Wichita State University are made available to students, faculty, staff and others primarily as tools for enhancing and facilitating teaching, learning, scholarly research, communications and the operation and administration of the University. Uses which are not directly related to these purposes shall be considered secondary activities and should such secondary activities in any way interfere with the primary activities, access to University technology resources may be terminated immediately. Access to and usage of such resources is a privilege and is not a right; it is therefore deemed appropriate and necessary that certain guidelines for the usage of the E-mail component of the University's technology resources be set forth and explained. Policy Statement Computers and other electronic media are the property of Wichita State University and should be used for the primary purpose of benefiting, enhancing and furthering the mission of the University. By using University-supplied information technology facilities and resources, individuals and other entities agree to abide by all applicable policies and procedures adopted by the University, the Kansas Board of Regents, the state of Kansas, and the usage guidelines of other networks linked to the University's networks or computer systems. By using University-supplied information technology facilities and resources, individuals and other entities agree to abide by and/or with current state and federal laws, including, but not limited to those relating to trademarks, service marks and copyright, defamation and discrimination. Users should understand that E-mail transmissions are considered to be non-confidential communications. E-mail transmissions may be subject to disclosure through legal proceedings or otherwise through various laws which may be held to apply to such transmissions. Users should understand that authorized University personnel must have access to E-mail and related information stored on University owned equipment. This access is required for reasons that include retrieving business-related information, trouble-shooting hardware and software problems, preventing unauthorized access and system misuse, assuring compliance with software distribution policies, and complying with legal and regulatory requests for information. The Executive Director of the University's computing center will be responsible for approving any such access. Users should understand that individual access to the University's information technology resources may be terminated at any time due to a violation of this policy. Users should understand that delivery of E-mail cannot be assured and that recovery of lost E-mail may not be possible. Users should respect the right of privacy of others and E-mail should not be used to harass, intimidate or interfere with the work of the recipients of E-mail. Users should refrain from acts that waste University resources and prevent others from using the University's information technology resources in accord with this policy. E-mail should not be used for private (does not include or cover consulting activities pursued in accord with applicable University policies) or commercial gain, posting of chain letters, posting or mailing of obscene materials, representing oneself electronically as another user, or configuring hardware or software to intentionally allow access by unauthorized users. Users should understand that the University's information technology resources are intended to facilitate the work of the University and personal usage by Users should be limited and should not interfere with or delay University matters. Implementation The Executive Director of University Computing shall have primary responsibility for the publication and implementation of this University policy. Effective Date This policy shall become effective as of March 17, 1998. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©