columbia_noon Apply Apply Menu Directory Search The School Dean’s Letter Faculty Administration News Events Student Work Media Archive Alumni Campaign Visit Contact Programs Architecture Master of Architecture M.S. Advanced Architectural Design M.S. Computational Design Practices M.S. Critical, Curatorial & Conceptual Practices Ph.D. Architecture New York/Paris Intro to Architecture Urbanism M.S. Architecture and Urban Design M.S. Urban Planning Ph.D. Urban Planning Preservation M.S. Historic Preservation Ph.D. Historic Preservation Real Estate M.S. Real Estate Development Research Centers Labs Incubator Initiatives Exhibitions Publications Resources Academic Calendar Courses Faculty Resources Hybrid Pedagogy Guide Student Resources Policies & Resources Career Services COVID-19 Resources Student Organizations Facilities Avery Library Arthur Ross Architecture Gallery Making Studio Output Shop Preservation Technology Lab Admissions Thinking About Applying Application Process After You’re Admitted Tuition & Aid FAQ Give Apply A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z # A AIA CES Credits Lyla Catellier directory_staff Created with Sketch. /aiacescredits link_arrow Created with Sketch. AV Office 321M Fayerweather Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Christopher Day directory_staff Created with Sketch. /audio-video-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Abstract Publication 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Shannon Werle directory_staff Created with Sketch. /abstract link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Affairs 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /academic-affair… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Calendar, Columbia University http://registrar… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Calendar, GSAPP /academic-calend… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Admissions Office 407 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Steffen Boddeker directory_staff Created with Sketch. /admissions link_arrow Created with Sketch. Advanced Standing Waiver Form Must be printed and returned to 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://d37vpt3x… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Alumni Board /alumni/board link_arrow Created with Sketch. Alumni Office 405 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Leah Cohen, Jillian Barsalou Kincaid, Esther Turay, Leslie Kuo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /alumni/contact link_arrow Created with Sketch. Anti-Racism Curriculum Development Award /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Architecture Studio Lottery /architecture-st… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Assistantships /assistantships link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Library 300 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. http://library.c… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Review http://averyrevi… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Shorts http://www.avery… link_arrow Created with Sketch. B Black Student Alliance at Columbia GSAPP /bsa link_arrow Created with Sketch. Building Science & Technology Waivers /building-tech-w… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Bulletin Archive /bulletin-archiv… link_arrow Created with Sketch. C COVID-19 FAQ /covid-19-faq link_arrow Created with Sketch. COVID-19 Resources /covid-19-resour… link_arrow Created with Sketch. COVID-19 Resources for the Columbia Community https://covid19.… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Career Services 407 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /career-services… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Climate /climate link_arrow Created with Sketch. Columbia Books on Architecture and the City Isabelle Kirkham-Lewitt, Joanna Kloppenburg directory_staff Created with Sketch. /books link_arrow Created with Sketch. Commencement /commencement link_arrow Created with Sketch. Communications Office 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Steffen Boddeker, Shannon Werle, Lucy Krebsbach directory_staff Created with Sketch. /communications-… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Conversations podcast /conversations link_arrow Created with Sketch. Counseling and Psychological Services http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Courses /courses link_arrow Created with Sketch. Credit Transfer /credit-transfer… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Cross Registration /cross-registrat… link_arrow Created with Sketch. D Data & Design /data-design link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Letter /deans-letter link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Office 402 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Nicholas Roberts directory_staff Created with Sketch. /deans-office link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Unlearning Whiteness Research Award /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Development Office 404 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Leah Cohen, Jillian Barsalou Kincaid, Esther Turay, Leslie Kuo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /development-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Directory of Classes (All Columbia University) http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Disability Services http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dodge Fitness Center 3030 Broadway Dodge directory_address Created with Sketch. https://perec.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dual Degree Program Requirements /dual-degree-req… link_arrow Created with Sketch. E End of Year Show /eoys link_arrow Created with Sketch. Equity /equity link_arrow Created with Sketch. Events Office 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Lyla Catellier directory_staff Created with Sketch. /events-office link_arrow Created with Sketch. Exhibitions Office Irene Sunwoo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /exhibitions-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. External Funding Sources /admissions/tuit… link_arrow Created with Sketch. F Faculty /faculty link_arrow Created with Sketch. Faculty Conduct /faculty-conduct… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Feedback /feedback link_arrow Created with Sketch. Finance Office 406 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /finance-adminis… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Fitch Colloquium /fitch link_arrow Created with Sketch. Future Anterior Jorge Otero-Pailos directory_staff Created with Sketch. /future-anterior… link_arrow Created with Sketch. G GIS /gis link_arrow Created with Sketch. GIS Tutorials /gis/tutorials link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPP Community Fellowship Program /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPP Emergency Fund /gsapp-emergency… link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPPXx+ /gsappxxplus link_arrow Created with Sketch. Grades /grades link_arrow Created with Sketch. Graduation /commencement link_arrow Created with Sketch. Graphics Project Yoonjai Choi directory_staff Created with Sketch. /graphics-projec… link_arrow Created with Sketch. H HEERF Program /heerf-program link_arrow Created with Sketch. Historic Preservation Newsletter http://us2.campa… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Honor System /honor-system link_arrow Created with Sketch. Human Resources /finance-human-r… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Hybrid Pedagogy Resources /hybrid-pedagogy… link_arrow Created with Sketch. I Identity /identity link_arrow Created with Sketch. Incubator Prize David Benjamin directory_staff Created with Sketch. /research/gsapp-… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology Helpdesk Ticket, GSAPP https://bit.ly/2… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology Office, GSAPP Ben Goldie directory_staff Created with Sketch. /it-support link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology, Columbia University (CUIT) http://cuit.colu… link_arrow Created with Sketch. International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. J Job Opportunities at Columbia http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. K Kenneth Frampton Endowed Lecture Series /frampton-lectur… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Kinne Prize /kinne link_arrow Created with Sketch. L LatinGSAPP /latingsapp link_arrow Created with Sketch. Leave of Absence Policy /leave-of-absenc… link_arrow Created with Sketch. M Making Studio Schermerhorn Extension Floor 1 directory_address Created with Sketch. Joshua Jordan directory_staff Created with Sketch. https://www.arch… link_arrow Created with Sketch. N News and Press Releases /news link_arrow Created with Sketch. Newsletter Sign Up https://columbia… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy /non-discriminat… link_arrow Created with Sketch. O Onera Prize for Historic Preservation /onera-prize link_arrow Created with Sketch. Online Admissions Application GSAPP Admissions 407 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://apply.gs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Output Shop 116 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Carlito Bayne, Sherly Orilas directory_staff Created with Sketch. /output-shop link_arrow Created with Sketch. Ownership of Student Work Policy /ownership-of-wo… link_arrow Created with Sketch. P Paris Prize, Buell Center /buell-paris-pri… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Paul S. Byard Memorial Lecture Series /byard-lectures link_arrow Created with Sketch. Percival & Naomi Goodman Fellowship /goodman-fellows… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Plagiarism Policy /plagiarism-poli… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Policies & Resources /policies-resour… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Press Releases /news link_arrow Created with Sketch. Publications Office 407 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Isabelle Kirkham-Lewitt, Joanna Kloppenburg directory_staff Created with Sketch. /books link_arrow Created with Sketch. Q QSAPP /qsapp link_arrow Created with Sketch. R Registration /registration link_arrow Created with Sketch. Registration: Add / Drop Form https://apply.gs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Room Reservations /room-reservatio… link_arrow Created with Sketch. S STEM Designation /stem link_arrow Created with Sketch. Satisfactory Academic Progress /satisfactory-ac… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Skill Trails Dan Taeyoung directory_staff Created with Sketch. https://skilltra… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Affairs 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. JD Stogdill directory_staff Created with Sketch. /student-affairs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Awards /student-awards link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Conduct /student-conduct… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Council (All Programs) /student-council… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Financial Services http://sfs.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Health Services at Columbia http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Organization Handbook /books/reader/59… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Organizations /student-organiz… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Services Center 205 Kent Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://ssc.colu… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Services Online (SSOL) https://ssol.col… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Work Online /student-work link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio Culture Policy /architecture-st… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio Procedures /studio-procedur… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio-X Global Network /studio-x link_arrow Created with Sketch. Summer Workshops /summer-workshop… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Support GSAPP https://arch.giv… link_arrow Created with Sketch. T Travel Guide /finance-adminis… link_arrow Created with Sketch. U URBAN Magazine /urban-mag link_arrow Created with Sketch. University Apartment Housing (UAH) http://facilitie… link_arrow Created with Sketch. University Resources /university-reso… link_arrow Created with Sketch. V Virtual Studios /hybrid-pedagogy… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Visual Resources Collection (VRC) Fayerweather 204 directory_address Created with Sketch. /vrc link_arrow Created with Sketch. W Website Steffen Boddeker, Shannon Werle directory_staff Created with Sketch. /website-colopho… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Links for... COVID-19 Resources Hybrid Pedagogy Guide GSAPP COVID-19 Resources Columbia COVID-19 Resources Student Health Services Students & Faculty Student Resources Faculty Resources Course Listing 2022 Commencement Prospective students 2021 Virtual Open House Thinking about Applying Compare Programs Student Work Columbia University Columbia Student Resources University Directory Office of University Life Columbia Libraries Close This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice Group 6 Programs M.S. Critical, Curatorial & Conceptual Practices overview degree requirements theses symposia admissions courses Apply Haunted Real Estate Thesis by Paula Vilaplana de Miguel Advisor: Felicity Scott Virtual Hero Thesis by Thuto Durkac-Somo Advisor: James Graham Antonio Raimondi’s Cartographies for Progress Thesis by Maria Alejandra Linares Advisor: Mabel O. Wilson Performative Spaces Thesis by Jane Chongsuwat Advisor: Mark Wasiuta Building Information Modeling Thesis by Amelyn Ng Advisor: Felicity Scott Fire Finder, Viewfinder, Drip Torch Thesis by Daqian Cao Advisor: Mark Wasiuta Economies of Citizenship Thesis by Joanna Robinson Kloppenburg Advisor: Mark Wasiuta Overview The Masters of Science in Critical, Curatorial, and Conceptual Practices in Architecture (CCCP) offers advanced training in the fields of architectural criticism, publishing, curating, exhibiting, writing, and research through a two-year, full-time course of intensive academic study and independent research. The program recognizes that architectural production is multi-faceted and diverse and that careers in architecture often extend beyond traditional modes of professional practice and academic scholarship, while at the same time reflecting and building upon them. Read More The CCCP program is structured to reflect this heterogeneity and the multiple sites and formats of exchange through which the field of architecture operates while at the same time sponsoring the ongoing critical development and interaction of such a matrix of practices and institutions. The program’s emphasis is thus on forging new critical, theoretical, and historical tools, and producing new and rigorous concepts and strategies for researching, presenting, displaying, and disseminating modern and contemporary architecture and closely related fields. The program is aimed primarily (but not exclusively) at those with a background in architecture who wish to advance and expand their critical and research skills in order to pursue professional and leadership careers as architectural critics, theorists, journalists, historians, editors, publishers, curators, gallerists, institute staff and directors, teachers, and research-based practitioners. Students might be seeking further academic training or specialization after a professional degree or years of teaching, or even at mid-career. They might also have worked in a related field and be seeking an academic forum to develop additional specializations in architecture. The program also provides the highest level of preparatory training for application to PhD programs in architectural history and theory. The CCCP program hosted a public lecture by Adrian Lahoud entitled, “Rights of Future Generations.” The second year CCCP class organized “Renegotiating Precarity,” a conference on new economies of labor, with Silvia Federici, George Caffentzis, Andrew Ross, Peggy Deamer, and others. The program also held “CCCP@10” at Wadi Rum in the Jordanian desert. This event brought together graduates and friends of the program for a discussion and a series of presentations to mark and celebrate ten years of CCCP. Show Less The CCCP program is structured to reflect this heterogeneity and the multiple sites and formats of exchange through which the field of architecture operates while at the same time sponsoring the ongoing critical development and interaction of such a matrix of practices and institutions. The program’s emphasis is thus on forging new critical, theoretical, and historical tools, and producing new and rigorous concepts and strategies for researching, presenting, displaying, and disseminating modern and contemporary architecture and closely related fields. The program is aimed primarily (but not exclusively) at those with a background in architecture who wish to advance and expand their critical and research skills in order to pursue professional and leadership careers as architectural critics, theorists, journalists, historians, editors, publishers, curators, gallerists, institute staff and directors, teachers, and research-based practitioners. Students might be seeking further academic training or specialization after a professional degree or years of teaching, or even at mid-career. They might also have worked in a related field and be seeking an academic forum to develop additional specializations in architecture. The program also provides the highest level of preparatory training for application to PhD programs in architectural history and theory. The CCCP program hosted a public lecture by Adrian Lahoud entitled, “Rights of Future Generations.” The second year CCCP class organized “Renegotiating Precarity,” a conference on new economies of labor, with Silvia Federici, George Caffentzis, Andrew Ross, Peggy Deamer, and others. The program also held “CCCP@10” at Wadi Rum in the Jordanian desert. This event brought together graduates and friends of the program for a discussion and a series of presentations to mark and celebrate ten years of CCCP. People Felicity Scott, Program Co-Director Mark Wasiuta, Program Co-Director CCCP 10 Year Anniversary Wadi Rum Desert June 9, 2019 Keller Easterling in conversation with Felicity Scott and Mark Wasiuta. April 4, 2018 CCCP Students at the 16th International Architecture Exhibition 2018 Venice Biennale GSAPP Conversations Episode 69 Amelyn Ng ‘19 MSCCCP interviews Adrian Lahoud Felicity Scott, Jeff Preiss, James Graham, and Mark Wasiuta CCCP Final Review Spring 2019 CCCP Arch Colloquium I: Operating Platforms – Publication, Exhibition, Research The domain of architectural work is multi-faceted, as are the multiple forms of practice and knowledge that reflect back upon it. In this sense architectural expertise appears in many formats, media, and institutional frameworks that extend beyond, while often informing, the discipline’s role in the production of buildings. This heterogeneous field incorporates periodicals, books, exhibitions, installations, research institutes and labs, pedagogy, criticism, manifestos, historical scholarship, posters, films, videos, performances, conferences, and much more. These many architectural modalities, as well as their institutional and mediatic interfaces, or forms of dissemination, have each, in distinct ways, played important roles in the conceptualization and transformation of the discipline. Read More We will investigate what role these have played in the formulation and understanding of architecture and will work to identify their contribution to seminal debates, to transformations in architecture’s technical and aesthetic characteristics, to sponsoring critical experimentation, as well as to the careers of many architects. We will distinguish the different forms of expertise they manifest; ask how they function as interfaces and to what audiences; and consider whether they serve to consolidate and codify existing architectural paradigms or to forge new critical and conceptual and well as aesthetic, material, and programmatic possibilities. We will look at how various practices emerged in their specific historical context and ask to what degree did they function to maintain a status quo or to act as critical and polemical launchings. We will ask, in turn, what scope there is for pushing new formats, developing new critical concepts, opening new trajectories of investigation, and expanding the very territories of the discipline. Show Less We will investigate what role these have played in the formulation and understanding of architecture and will work to identify their contribution to seminal debates, to transformations in architecture’s technical and aesthetic characteristics, to sponsoring critical experimentation, as well as to the careers of many architects. We will distinguish the different forms of expertise they manifest; ask how they function as interfaces and to what audiences; and consider whether they serve to consolidate and codify existing architectural paradigms or to forge new critical and conceptual and well as aesthetic, material, and programmatic possibilities. We will look at how various practices emerged in their specific historical context and ask to what degree did they function to maintain a status quo or to act as critical and polemical launchings. We will ask, in turn, what scope there is for pushing new formats, developing new critical concepts, opening new trajectories of investigation, and expanding the very territories of the discipline. CCCP Arch Colloquium II: Documents and Discourse The seminar will approach contemporary critical discourse through the filter of documents and documentation. In specific historical examples, and with a range of theoretical texts, the status, definition, use and authority of documents for architecture, architectural history, architectural exhibitions and architecture’s other media practices will be examined and assessed. Through the question of the document the seminar will survey a range of methodologies and approaches that have served to define, demarcate, or redirect the stakes of the discipline over the last decades. Read More In addition, the seminar will interrogate the current status of theory, its recent history, its application, its utility, as well as the anxieties that it has often fostered within and outside architecture. We will read a series of architectural and theoretical texts that offer important conceptual and intellectual tools for addressing architecture’s relation to technology, media, ecology, sexuality, spatial politics, and a range of other problems and directions. We will examine how, through new research and methodological approaches, the conceptual parameters of architectural history, theory, criticism, and practice have been expanded and how canonical figures and their works have been recast in distinct terms. The ambition of the seminar is twofold, aiming both to expand our familiarity with contemporary debates and to provide a focused forum for ongoing discussion regarding the articulation of new sites and strategies for research, writing, and practice. Show Less In addition, the seminar will interrogate the current status of theory, its recent history, its application, its utility, as well as the anxieties that it has often fostered within and outside architecture. We will read a series of architectural and theoretical texts that offer important conceptual and intellectual tools for addressing architecture’s relation to technology, media, ecology, sexuality, spatial politics, and a range of other problems and directions. We will examine how, through new research and methodological approaches, the conceptual parameters of architectural history, theory, criticism, and practice have been expanded and how canonical figures and their works have been recast in distinct terms. The ambition of the seminar is twofold, aiming both to expand our familiarity with contemporary debates and to provide a focused forum for ongoing discussion regarding the articulation of new sites and strategies for research, writing, and practice. Electives In addition to the required colloquia and thesis courses, CCCP students have the opportunity to take a range of courses offered at GSAPP and elsewhere in the University. Relevant courses within GSAPP are found primarily within the offerings in history and theory, and include lectures and seminars and, when relevant, can take the form of an independent study under the supervision of a faculty member. Some of these courses have been designed specifically for the CCCP program, others are part of the broader history and theory curriculum at the school. Students are also able to enroll in Visual Studies courses, as well as non-studio based offerings in the Planning and Preservation departments. Students have also enrolled in courses offered by Art History, Anthropology, and in the Schools of Law and Journalism, as well as taking foreign language classes. Thesis The second year of the CCCP program is dedicated primarily to the research and writing/production of a final thesis.This can take the form of: a written thesis on a historical or theoretical topic; a portfolio of critical writings; a print-based demonstration and visualization of rigorous, original research, or; it could involve the conceptualization, design, and a detailed prospectus and documentation for, or when feasible the production of, an exhibition, publication, institute, major event, web-based initiative, time-based project, etc. Regardless of format, it must contain evidence of substantive research and conceptual rigor, and involve a written component and other materials that can be submitted in the form of a bound document in its final presentation. Each student conducts his/her research independently, under the supervision of a faculty advisor, as well as participating in mid-term and final reviews each semester. Read More The thesis is intended to be the culmination of a CCCP student’s education and work at the GSAPP. It provides the opportunity to undertake and develop a project in detail, a project that demonstrates the student’s capacity to make a significant and original contribution to the field of architecture (or a closely related discipline), and which allows them to synthesize their critical approach, experience, and expertise in a relevant format of his/her choice. In this regard it is also conceived as an opportunity to build on and demonstrate critical and research skills that will be relevant to subsequent pursuit of a professional or academic career, whether as an architectural critic, theorist, journalist, historian, editor, publisher, curator, gallerist, institute director, teacher, designer, research-based practitioner, etc. Concomitant with the ambitions of the CCCP program more generally, emphasis is on forging new critical, theoretical, and historical tools, and producing new concepts and strategies for researching, displaying, and disseminating modern and contemporary architecture and closely related fields. Show Less The thesis is intended to be the culmination of a CCCP student’s education and work at the GSAPP. It provides the opportunity to undertake and develop a project in detail, a project that demonstrates the student’s capacity to make a significant and original contribution to the field of architecture (or a closely related discipline), and which allows them to synthesize their critical approach, experience, and expertise in a relevant format of his/her choice. In this regard it is also conceived as an opportunity to build on and demonstrate critical and research skills that will be relevant to subsequent pursuit of a professional or academic career, whether as an architectural critic, theorist, journalist, historian, editor, publisher, curator, gallerist, institute director, teacher, designer, research-based practitioner, etc. Concomitant with the ambitions of the CCCP program more generally, emphasis is on forging new critical, theoretical, and historical tools, and producing new concepts and strategies for researching, displaying, and disseminating modern and contemporary architecture and closely related fields. Current Faculty Joanna Kloppenburg M.S. Critical, Curatorial & Conceptual Practices Alexandra Quantrill M.S. Critical, Curatorial & Conceptual Practices Felicity Scott Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, M.S. Critical, Curatorial & Conceptual Practices, Ph.D. in Architecture Mark Wasiuta Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, M.S. Critical, Curatorial & Conceptual Practices, Collecting Architecture Territories Spring 2022 Courses Course Semester Title Student Work Instructor Syllabus Requirements & Sequence Location & Time Session & Points Call No. A4033‑1 Spring 2022 CCCP Colloquium II Felicity Scott CCCP Core Courses 300 AVERY TU 2 PM - 4 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14225 A4041‑1 Spring 2022 CCCP Thesis II Joanna Kloppenburg CCCP Core Courses 300 BUELL SOUTH W 2 PM - 4 PM FULL SEMESTER 9 Points 14227 A4566‑1 Spring 2022 Collecting Architecture Territories Mark Wasiuta Post-1800 N/W History & Theory Modern 300 BUELL SOUTH TH 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14263 See all Related Events May 13, 2pm Interpretations Conference xiii: Disobedience The People’s Forum on 320 W 37th Street, New York, NY, 10018 Mar 21, 6:30pm Andrea Fraser Wood Auditorium Jan 15, 2021, 12am Application Deadline for MSAAD, MSAUD, MSCCCP, MSHP, MSUP, and MSRED Jan 11, 2021, 7pm MS Programs Admissions Open Session 2 Virtual Jan 11, 2021, 10am MS Programs Admissions Open Session 1 Virtual Oct 21, 2019, 10am Prospective Student Open House 2019 Avery Hall Aug 2, 2019, 5pm Benevolent Intentions: Makassed, Patron of Modern Architecture Saleh Barakat Gallery, Beirut, Lebanon Feb 27, 2019, 6:30pm Adrian Lahoud Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall Nov 17, 2018, 1pm Renegotiating Precarity Swiss Institute, 38 St Marks Pl Oct 22, 2018, 12am Prospective Student Open House Avery Hall Oct 5, 2018, 1pm Toward a Concrete Utopia Avery Hall, Room 114 Sep 21, 2018, 1pm GSAPP at the Venice Biennale Ware Lounge, Avery Hall May 27, 2018, 11am The Morning After (The Blind Dates) The Emily Harvey Foundation San Polo 322 30125 Venice May 26, 2018, 2:30pm CCCP in Venice Dutch Pavilion, Giardini Apr 9, 2018, 10am Admitted Student Open House - Architecture, AAD, CCCP and Urban Design Avery Hall Apr 4, 2018, 6:30pm Keller Easterling Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall Mar 2, 2018, 1:30pm Mapping Borderlands 200S Fayerweather May 13, 2017, 4pm GSAPP Graduation South Lawn, Columbia University Apr 14, 2017, 1pm Cooking Sections: The Empire Remains Shop Ware Lounge, Avery Hall Apr 10, 2017, 7pm Borderlands, Conservation and Ecology Avery Hall, Ware Lounge Feb 13, 2017, 6:30pm Martin Beck Wood Auditorium Oct 24, 2016, 6:30pm Emilio Ambasz Wood Auditorium Oct 8, 2016, 2pm Interpretations: Destabilizing Ground(s) e-flux (311 E. Broadway, NYC) May 14, 2016, 6pm End of Year Show Opening Avery Hall Apr 1, 2016, 2pm Architecture and Photography in Iraq, 1952-1982 Ware Lounge Mar 25, 2016, 1pm Assemble Wood Auditorium Mar 11, 2016, 7pm A Genealogy of Modern Architecture: Book Launch and Reception Housing Works, 126 Crosby Street Mar 8, 2016, 2pm Toyo Ito, Kazuyo Sejima, Sou Fujimoto, Akihisa Hirata, and Junya Ishigami in Conversation Wood Auditorium Feb 12, 2016, 1pm Architecture In Print: New Editorial Manifestos Ware Lounge Feb 5, 2016, 1pm The Spatial Impact Of Forced Migration: Implications For Urban Scholarship And Practice Ware Lounge Feb 4, 2016, 6:30pm Les Levine: Bio-Tech Rehearsals 1965-1975 Arthur Ross Architecture Gallery, Buell Hall Show More CCCP News May 23 Marina Otero '13 MSCCCP shortlisted for Harvard GSD's 2022 Wheelwright Prize Apr 25 Tianyu Yang '22 MArch MSCCCP featured Columbia News article "Meet 15 'Lions of Social Justice' From the Class of 2022" Apr 20 "Reset: Towards a New Commons" featuring work by GSAPP Faculty and Alumni including Alessandro Orsini, Ignacio G. Galan, Karen Kubey '09 MArch, Nick Roseboro '23 MSCCCP, and Sharon Egretta Sutton '73 MArch opens at the Center for Architecture Apr 20 Architensions led by Faculty Alessandro Orsini and Nick Roseboro '23 MSCCCP unveil installation at Coachella music festival Apr 14 Architensions led by Faculty Alessandro Orsini and Nick Roseboro '23 MSCCCP featured in Domus Magazine's article "A revolutionary house in the ordinary suburb of Long Island" Feb 1 Emmanuel Olunkwa '20 MSCCCP interviews Professor Mabel O. Wilson on "radical optimism" in Pin-Up Magazine Jan 5 Najia Fatima '22 MSCCCP published "Performative Housing: Toronto’s Regent Park" in Places Journal Oct 19, 2021 Professor Mabel O. Wilson ‘91 MArch, recipient of the 2021 Vincent Scully Prize, honored by National Building Museum with a discussion and celebration of her work Oct 6, 2021 Francisco Díaz ‘13 MSCCCP and Carol Updegrave '87 GSAPP participate in Columbia Global Centers Santiago's event "Playground: Arfefactos para Interactuar" Oct 4, 2021 CIVA's Institution Building exhibition features work by Faculty Lucia Allais, Juan Herreros, Laura Kurgan, Reinhold Martin, Jorge Otero-Pailos, Anna Puigjaner, Hilary Sample, Mark Wigley, Dare Brawley, Jia Zhang, and alumni Mitch McEwen ‘06 MArch and Amelyn Ng '19 MSCCCP Show More Other Architecture Programs at GSAPP Master of Architecture A three-year professional degree that weaves together the highest level of disciplinary expertise with the critical and technical skills necessary to recast the boundaries of the discipline. M.S. Advanced Architectural Design A three-term program that provides outstanding young professionals who hold a B.Arch or M.Arch the opportunity to enter into an intensive, postgraduate study. M.S. Computational Design Practices Ph.D. in Architecture The doctoral program addresses the development of modern architectural form and ideas as they have been affected by social, economic, and technological change. New York / Paris A one-year intensive liberal arts program with a strong studio component, focused on the design issues of these two cities. Intro to Architecture A summer pre-professional program Columbia University Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 (212) 854-3414 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Please click here to sign up for occasional emails © 2022 Columbia University / Colophon