Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Forms and Guidelines Peer Educator Volunteer Application Form Peer Educator Volunteer Application Form October 26, 2021 To be considered as a Peer Educator applicant, complete the below information (incomplete applications will not be considered.) Read about applying to be a Peer Advocate. Applications Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Successful applicants will be invited to participate in a 40 hour training program. Candidates must attend all training dates in order to be eligible to become a volunteer. Interviews will be held on an ongoing basis. Applicants must be able to attend all training sessions per their specified track. Once candidates in the Facilitator track have successfully completed the training program, they must co-facilitate a program in order to be certified to lead in-person programs. Upon successful completion of the training program and necessary certification, candidates will be invited to join the Peer Educator program. In order to volunteer as a Peer Educator, you must be a current student with a school affiliated with Columbia University. All volunteers must be in good disciplinary and academic standing with your school. A commitment for a minimum of two semesters (not necessarily consecutive) is expected of all volunteers. About the Training The training will: Provide an in-depth understanding of sexual and intimate partner violence, sexual and gender-based harassment, and stalking; Review the impact of these behaviors on survivors and their communities; Help volunteers respond to challenging situations and tricky subjects; and Provide facilitation skills training for delivering effective and engaging educational programs for other students. Upon successful completion of the training and certification, Peer Educators will be prepared to engage with the campus community, including Barnard, Columbia, Teachers College, Jewish Theological Seminary and Union Theological Seminary. Responsibilities Peer Educators are responsible for: Successfully complete the SVR 35hrs. certification process prior to executing educational and outreach events. Ability to maintain privacy and confidentiality. Attend regularly scheduled Peer Educator Advisement meetings and periodic continued education trainings. Spend approximately two hours every week in the SVR office to prepare for workshops and support the office. Help coordinate ongoing and generate new educational and awareness events programming. Support at least three tables/events each semester. Facilitate at least one workshop every semester (possibly more, depending on demand and availability). Contribute to the development and implementation of the following:  New Student Orientation Programs (NSOP)  Student Leaders training  SVR's Sexual Respect & Community Citizenship programming  Activities for Relationship Violence Awareness Month (RVAM) & Sexual Assault Awareness Month (SAAM)  Serve as leaders and ambassadors of Sexual Violence Response mission and values. If you have any questions about the training process or responsibilities, please contact the Sexual Violence Response Office at (212) 854-3500 and speak with Debjani Roy or Suzannah Rogan. Eligibility To be eligible for participation in the trainings, you must be: Able to attend all specified training sessions Comfortable with our Mission Statement In good disciplinary and academic standing with your school By submitting this application, you are providing permission for Sexual Violence Response staff to verify that you are in good disciplinary and academic standing with your school. Individuals of all identities who are passionate about this work are encouraged to apply! Webform Applicant Information Name Email UNI Date of Birth Phone Number Local/Campus Address School Year Hours Available for Interview Campus Involvement Are you involved/affiliated with other student groups, organizations or Columbia Athletics? Your affiliations have no bearing on the application process and are only collected for informational purposes only. Campus Involvement Fraternity/Sorority Athlete Student Organization Other None/Prefer not to list Which fraternity or sorority? Which sport(s)? Which student group/organization(s)? Other: please list Summer Housing If summer housing is needed, please complete the following section. ID# Accommodations Needed T-shirt size Diet Dietary Preference Vegetarian Kosher Food Allergy Other Restrictions If you selected restrictions or allergies, what type? Application Questionnaire Please answer each question in 100-200 words. Why are you interested in volunteering as a Peer Educator? What skills and interests would you bring to this role? Describe any experience you have with peer education, organizing, facilitation or activism. What do you think makes an effective and engaging educational workshop? What are the three most important messages students need to hear about sexual violence, relationships, and consent? Submit Document Categories Forms Document Topics Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close