Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information UW Alumni Tours Home Alumni Travel FAQs & Resources FAQs & Resources Close Menu Home Travel COVID-19 Updates Traveler Testimonials Upcoming Tours Tour Operators Traveling with us FAQs & Resources Travel insurance Meet the team & Contact us FAQs Why travel with UW Alumni Tours? Curiosity doesn’t end with your degree. UW Alumni Tours strives to connect alumni and friends with one of the best learning experiences out there – travel! Featuring the most enriching destinations and engaging adventures around the globe, there’s no limit to what you can learn with UW Alumni Tours as your guide. We’ve done all the homework so you won’t have to! Group travel lets you relax knowing someone has found the best places to stay, dine and visit. Plus, past travelers often remark that a highlight of their trip is the camaraderie they feel with fellow travelers, and how friendships formed continue long after they’ve returned home. Many tours are accompanied by either UW hosts or UW faculty lecturers, who help you get the most out of your travel experience. How do I enroll in a tour? All reservations for UW tours are made through the trip’s tour operator. When a tour is open for reservations, the tour page on our website will either have a ‘Book Online’ button (which will take you to the tour operator’s website) or a phone number for you to call directly – just be sure to let them know you’re with the UW. Please note that all Odysseys Unlimited reservations are processed over the phone. A representative will also be able to answer all your questions about pricing, itinerary details, and travel arrangements. Odysseys Unlimited – 1-888-370-6765 AHI Travel – 877-223-9274 Go Next – 1-888-918-8954 Orbridge – 866-639-0079 Gohagan & Co – 800-922-3088 I’m not a UW alum; can I go on a tour? Yes! You do not have to be a UW grad to travel with us. Our tours are filled with alumni, retired staff, family, friends and general supporters of the UW. We invite you to join the UW travel community! Since the alumni travel program is one of the UW Alumni Association membership benefits, , our travel policy does require that one person per room/cabin reservation be/become an Association member for the year of travel. Who are the tour operators? UW Alumni Tours selects the most professional and experienced tour operators based on their destination expertise, reputation, and specialization in alumni travel. We have worked with our tour operators for many years and love their commitment to supporting the UW and their passion for educational travel. By working with a variety of operators, we are also able to offer tours for different travel tastes: from small-group land-based tours, to luxurious, scenic cruises and small-ship adventures Learn more. Who are my fellow travelers? This depends on the tour! The majority of our land-based trips are exclusive UW Alumni Tours. While on our cruises, you will be traveling with representatives from other alumni associations or the general public. No matter the trip, we strive to create opportunities to get to know your fellow UW travelers by scheduling excursions together (where possible) and organizing events and meet-ups on-board. How are flights arranged? Travelers generally have choices: you can choose to book your own flights, have a tour operator book an individual air schedule for you, or many trips allow you to take advantage of group air arrangements. Because air options vary from trip to trip and operator to operator, it’s best to refer to an individual tour for specific air options available. Are single rooms available? Yes, a limited number of single rooms (without a roommate) are available on a first-come basis at an additional cost. This “single supplement” allows you reserve a single, private room. If you are a single traveler interested in sharing a room on a specific tour, please let us know and whenever possible we will try connect you with another single traveler. We are also excited to offer several tours where the single supplement is waived. These trips are easily identifiable on our Upcoming Tours page by clicking on the No Single Supplement filter. Single spaces on these tours are limited, and tend to sell out quickly, so it’s important to book early to reserve your spot. Note: Oceania Cruise Line rarely offers special single pricing, so a traveler desiring a single room pays the double occupancy rate. What are the cancellation and refund policies? Cancellation policies differ according to the tour operator and are outlined on a tour’s brochure. For specific cancellation questions, your best resource is to contact your trip’s tour operator directly. We also recommend travel insurance to protect your investment and as a precaution against unforeseen circumstances that might cause you to cancel. Are we required to sign any forms? Yes, all travelers are required to sign a UWAA release of liability and waiver form. Signing this form indicates that you’ve read all of the tour materials and fully understand the physical requirements of the tour. For a sample of this form, please click here. Are there physical requirements? All travelers must be in good mental and physical health, able to get on and off motor coaches on their own, and be able to keep up with the pace of the group. Participants who require special assistance must be accompanied by someone who can and will provide it. If you would like more details about the physical requirements for a specific trip, feel free to reach out directly to the trip’s Tour Operator. How do I receive a brochure for a specific tour? Not all brochures are automatically mailed to everyone. To ensure that you receive a specific brochure, please send us a request by email (uwaatour@uw.edu). Brochures are generally available seven to nine months in advance of a tour’s departure. Links to many brochures are available on our upcoming tour’s web pages. How do I get on the UW Alumni Tours mailing list? Please send an email to uwaatour@uw.edu with your name, mailing address, and email to receive info about new tours and special events. Who do I contact for more information? If you have any questions about a specific tour, please call the trip’s Tour Operator directly – just be sure to let them know you’re with the UW. They will be able to answer all your questions about pricing, itinerary details, and travel arrangements. Odysseys Unlimited: 1-888-370-6765 (Mon-Fri 9am-7pm EST) AHI Travel: 877-223-9274 (Mon-Fri 9am-5pm CST, Sat 9am-2pm CST) Go Next: 1-888-918-8954 (Mon-Fri 8:30am – 5:30pm CST) Orbridge: 866-639-0079 (Mon-Fri 9am – 5pm PST) Gohagan & Co: 800-922-3088 (Mon-Fri 9am – 5pm CST) For general information about the UW Alumni Tours program, feel free to contact us, UW Alumni Tours University of Washington Alumni Association Box 359508 Seattle, WA 98195 Phone: 206-685-9276 or 800-289-2586 Fax: 206-616-3863 E-mail address: uwaatour@uw.edu Resources Tour Operator Contact Information If you have any questions about a specific tour, please call the trip’s Tour Operator directly – just be sure to let them know you’re with the UW. They will be happy to answer any and all of your questions! Odysseys Unlimited: 1-888-370-6765 (Mon-Fri, 9am-7pm EST) AHI Travel: 877-223-9274 (Mon-Fri, 9am-5pm CST, Sat 9am-2pm CST) Go Next: 1-888-918-8954 (Mon-Fri, 8:30am-5:30pm CST) Orbridge: 866-639-0079 (Mon-Fri, 9am-5pm PST) Gohagan & Co: 800-922-3088 (Mon-Fri, 9am-5pm CST) Air Travel Sea-Tac Airport is the official website of the Seattle-Tacoma International Airport and provides terminal maps, airport services, parking information, and more. Seat Guru lets you choose your spot and in-flight amenities in advance, in addition to providing comprehensive airline information and comparisons. Seat Expert shows a preview of the airline seating chart for your next flight. Currency Oanada.com offers currency exchange rates and a currency converter. General Travel Information U.S. Department of State provides information for citizens traveling abroad, including travel warnings about various countries and passport and visa information. U.S. Passports & International Travel has passport application and renewal forms in addition to health and safety information for international travelers. Transportation Security Administration contains the most up-to-date information about what is allowed in your carry-on luggage and current screening procedures. U.S. Embassies and Consulates offers a comprehensive alphabetical list of locations around the world. Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) is a free service to allow U.S. citizens traveling and living abroad to enroll their trip with the nearest U.S. Embassy or Consulate CIA World Factbook provides country maps, profiles, history and more, fully preparing you for your adventure. International Etiquette answers those pesky questions about the p’s and q’s of local customs and conduct for your upcoming trip. Visa & Passport Services: The U.S. Department of State’s passport info page. Insurance To protect your investment and as a precaution against unforeseen circumstances, we highly recommend considering travel insurance. Learn more here: Travel Insurance Medical and Immunizations Centers for Disease Control and Prevention hosts Traveler’s Health, which lists information on specific destinations, including what you should know before you go. World Health Organization: International Travel & Health lists travel-related health risks, general precautions, and disease distribution maps. UW Medicine: Travel Medicine Hall Health provides comprehensive pre-travel health services to UW faculty, staff, and students, as well as the general public in the Seattle community UWAA Membership Benefits UW Rome Center – Apartment for Rent: Located in the heart of the historic city, UW affiliates can rent this spacious, furnished penthouse apartment in Rome. UWAA Member Benefits: Here is your number one resource for finding all your UWAA membership has to offer. Home Travel COVID-19 Updates Traveler Testimonials Upcoming Tours Tour Operators Traveling with us FAQs & Resources Travel insurance Meet the team & Contact us Friends & Family Welcome! You don’t have to be a UW graduate to travel with UW Alumni Tours! UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA