Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Business Economics, BSBA Explore the Science of Human Behavior Using Math, Theory and Data Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Business Department(s) Economics 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Explore the Intersection of Economics and Other Disciplines That Shape the World Around Us The Business Economics major for the Bachelor of Science in Business Administration provides you with specialized training in economics along with core skills in business administration. Throughout the program, you’ll have the flexibility to select from a variety of courses that allow you to customize your education program to your personal interests and career goals. Build a solid background in economics and develop a unique perspective to help companies and organizations improve their decision-making and understand the consequences of their decisions. Explore areas such as data acquisition and analysis, interpersonal communication skills, critical thinking, report writing, and develop competency with relevant software. You’ll learn about economics and business careers through research, informational interviews of professionals, and exposure to work environments through job shadowing, volunteer or internship opportunities. This degree provides you with the skills and training for careers in business and industry, law, government, politics, teaching, research and a variety of other areas. However, many economist positions require master’s or doctoral degrees. Therefore, the business economics program also ensures that you have a strong foundation in order to pursue graduate studies in business, economics, law and public administration. Please note that the business economics degree is not eligible for a double degree with another College of Business Administration major. Related Programs: Economics, BS Business Analytics, BSBA Highlights UCF was ranked as one of the Best Undergraduate Business Programs by U.S. News & World Report in 2021. The economics program at UCF is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The job outlook for economics is projected to grow 14 percent through 2029. The starting salary for economics majors is an estimated $59,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Game Theory and Economics Explore the strategic decision-making of parties having opposed, mixed or similar interests. Seminar on Current Economic Topics Cover a wide range of topics, including the analysis of current economic issues and policy, and the study of current economic methods and theories. Strategic Management Assume a strategic view of organizations and integrate and apply material learned in your business courses to modern organizational problems and opportunities. View All Business Economics Courses You’ll Take Business Economics Skills You’ll Learn Demonstrate the application of the principles, theories and analytical methods of economics to analyze problems and develop solutions. Draw insights about economic behavior from the application of algebra and calculus to economic problems. Apply systematic and logical reasoning to evaluate and draw valid conclusions about economic problems. Communicate economic ideas clearly and coherently to various teams within an organization. Career Opportunities Economist Financial Risk Analyst Data Analyst Economic Researcher Policy Analyst Market Research Analyst Actuary College of Business News Check out more stories Business & Economy Wriggle Brew ‘Worm Tea’ Fertilizer Wins at UCF’s 2022 Joust New Venture Competition Economics student Samuel Baker won for his concept, which also doubles as a pesticide. Business & Economy Metro Forecast: Florida Economy Must Weather ‘Monetary Policy Hurricane’ to Avoid Recession With the Federal Reserve making its first interest rate hike in three years in March, UCF’s Institute for Economic Forecasting predicts the 0.25% increase will… Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. Student Life Student Research Week: The Greater Good Ahead of Selfish Interests is Focus of Marketing Study Ph.D. student looks at how self-compassion creates longer lasting positive effects for donors in addition to fostering high prosocial behavior. Degree Search College of Business programs Bachelors Business Economics (BSBA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Business Economics major for the Bachelor of Science in Business Administration is designed for students who wish to receive specialized training in Economics along with core skills in business administration. Flexibility to select from a variety of courses allows students to customize their education program to their personal interests and career goals. This degree provides skills and training for careers in business and industry, law, government, politics, teaching, research, and a variety of other areas. This degree also provides a strong foundation for future graduate studies in business, economics, law and public administration. Not eligible for a double degree with another College of Business Administration major. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students wanting to major in Business Economics must meet admission requirements for the major. Any student receiving a business degree must complete a minimum of 30 of the 61 upper level business credit hours for their degree program in the UCF College of Business Administration. Additionally, 12 of the 30 credit hours completed at UCF must be from the department or school in which the student majors. For students seeking a double major within the College of Business, a maximum of 6 hours of Required Courses for the Major or Restricted Electives may count towards another business major. A maximum of 6 hours of Core Requirements or Restricted Electives may count towards another degree program or minor. Students in the Economics major must maintain a 2.0 or higher cumulative Grade Point Average in all major courses taken at UCF and a 2.0 or higher cumulative GPA in all College of Business courses taken at UCF. Failure to maintain the required GPAs will result in the student being placed on Lack of Progress in the major and/or College. If a student on Lack of Progress fails to achieve the minimum required GPA in the subsequent term of enrollment, the student will be dismissed from the Economics major and/or College of Business. A student who is dismissed may seek consideration for re-admittance into the College or major by submitting a letter indicating the reasons for academic difficulties and positive plans for achieving the required GPA. Readmission is not automatic or guaranteed and as an exception to College policy is rarely granted. Students majoring in Economics must earn a grade of "C" or better in QMB 3200 and each course applied toward the major. This includes all courses under Common Program Prerequisites (CPP), Core Requirements: Required Courses for Major, and Restricted and Business Electives listed below. This does not include Core Requirements: Primary Core, Secondary Core, or Capstone requirements listed below. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 36 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: ACG3173 - Accounting for Decision-Makers (3) QMB3200 - Quantitative Business Tools II (3) FIN3403 - Business Finance (3) MAN3025 - Management of Organizations (3) MAR3023 - Marketing (3) Complete the following: GEB3006 - Introduction to Career Development and Financial Plannings (3) GEB3005 - Career Search Strategy (1) BUL3130 - Legal and Ethical Environment of Business (3) MAR3203 - Supply Chain and Operations Management (3) GEB4223 - Business Interviewing Techniques (1) GEB4004 - Executing Your Career Plan (1) QMB3602 - Business Research for Decision Making (3) Complete the following: ECO3101 - Intermediate Microeconomics (3) ECO3203 - Intermediate Macroeconomics (3) Restricted Electives 18 Total Credits Complete at least 6 of the following: ECO3223 - Money and Banking (3) ECO3410 - Mathematical Economics (3) ECO3703 - International Microeconomics (3) ECP3004 - Seminar on Current Economic Topics (3) ECP3203 - Labor Economics (3) ECP4303 - Environmental and Natural Resource Economics (3) ECP4403 - Industrial Organization (3) ECS4013 - Development Economics (3) ECO4934 - Topics in Econometrics (3) ECP4530 - Health Economics (3) ECO4400 - Game Theory and Economics (3) ECO4443 - Introduction to Business Analytics (3) ECO4412 - Econometrics I (3) ECO4422 - Econometrics II (3) ECO4504 - Public Economics (3) ECO4713 - International Macroeconomics (3) ECP3006 - Economics of Sports (3) ECO4751 - Law and Economics (3) ECO4714 - Advanced Topics in International Economics (3) ECO3155 - Thinking Like an Economist (3) Business Electives 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: Choose any upper level business course. For students interested in preparing for graduate school in Economics and other graduate programs, the following courses are strongly recommended: ECO 3410 - Mathematical Economics Credit Hours: 3 ECO 4412 - Econometrics I Credit Hours: 3 ECO 4422 - Econometrics II Credit Hours: 3 ECP 4403 - Industrial Organization Credit Hours: 3 ECO 4934 - Topics in Econometrics Credit Hours: 3 ECO 4400 - Game Theory and Economics Credit Hours: 3 ECO 4443 - Introduction to Business Analytics Credit Hours: 3 For students interested in Finance one course from the following list can count as a restricted elective towards the economics degree. NOTE: To enroll in one of these courses you must have taken both FIN 3403 and ACG 3173 and earned a B or better in both courses. FIN 4604 - International Financial Management Credit Hours: 3 FIN 3414 - Intermediate Corporate Finance Credit Hours: 3 FIN 4243 - Debt and Money Markets Credit Hours: 3 FIN 4504 - Equity and Capital Markets Credit Hours: 3 Capstone Requirements 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: MAN4720 - Strategic Management (3) Admitted to a Business major, senior standing, and completion of MAN 3025, MAR 3023, FIN 3403, QMB 3200, and ACG 3173 or ACG 3131 are required to register for MAN 4720. Grand Total Credits: 60 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida