Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Schlesinger Library The Schlesinger Library illuminates the lives of American women past and present through its collections, research support, public programming, and exhibitions, all while advancing Harvard Radcliffe Institute’s commitment to women, gender, and society. One of the special collections libraries within the Harvard Library—the oldest library system in the United States—the Schlesinger Library is considered the leading center for scholarship on the history of women in the United States, with collections that span civil rights and feminism, health and sexuality, work and family life, education and the professions, and culinary history and etiquette. The Library is committed to expanding its holdings by and about women of all ethnicities, political philosophies, and socioeconomic backgrounds. Open to the public, the Library welcomes all visitors. Quick Links A New Way to Request Materials More about Radcliffe’s Schlesinger Library Research Services and Tools Explore our Collections Spotlight: Long 19th Amendment Project Collections 01 / 06 Slide left Slide right 01 Blackwell Family 02 Julia Child 03 Helen Keller 04 June Jordan 05 Alice Paul 06 Amelia Earhart Explore our Collections Fund your Research 01 Opportunities for Researchers The Schlesinger Library offers a variety of research grants to support new scholarship on women, gender, and sexuality. Grants for Researchers 02 Opportunities for Students Carol K. Pforzheimer Student Fellowships provide funding to Harvard undergraduates to do research in the Schlesinger Library's collections. Grants for Students 03 Opportunities for Educators Teachers in grades 6–12 can apply for support for research in our collections connected to work in their classrooms. Grants for Educators Hear Black Women’s Voices 01 / 16 Slide left Slide right Muriel Snowden Oral History Interview “Are You Listening: Black High School Girls,” Produced by Martha Stuart Dorothy West Oral History Interview Melnea A. Cass Oral History Interview Alfreda Barnett Duster Oral History Interview Mildred Jefferson Addresses the National Right to Life Conference Mary Gibson Hundley Talks about Housing Discrimination in 1947 Radio Program Pauli Murray reads "Dark Testament” Pat Parker Reads “Jonestown and Other Madness” Bernice Johnson Reagon Sings "Getting Down to Get Over" and Recites "Poem about My Rights" Audre Lorde Reads "Afterimages" Shirley Chisholm addresses the National Women's Political Caucus Rosa Parks Oral History Interview June Jordan Reads "Poem about Police Violence" Flo Kennedy: "The Feminist Party Street Walks" Angela Davis Speaks at Critical Resistance Meeting about the Prison Industrial Complex Visit the Library The Schlesinger Library’s Reading Room is open Monday through Friday from 10 AM to 4 PM. The Lia and William Poorvu Gallery is open to all visitors, Monday through Friday, 9 AM to 5 PM. All visitors must read and abide by current Harvard Radcliffe Institute policies. Plan your Research Visit Start Your Research The Schlesinger Library’s Reading Room is open Monday through Friday from 10 AM to 4 PM. The Lia and William Poorvu Gallery is open to all visitors, Monday through Friday, 9 AM to 5 PM. If you are interested in making an appointment, please read the access policies below and contact us via Ask A Librarian. Virtual reference services are available via Ask a Librarian, and we encourage you to explore the HOLLIS catalog. The Library has also created research guides to collections. Through these, you can learn how to use research tools like Zotero; read subject guides created especially for Harvard courses; or browse collection highlights by subject. Quick Links Remote Research Guide Ask a Librarian How-To Guides Subject Guides Search the Catalog Search the catalog Search Search the full HOLLIS catalog or Search the Schlesinger Library catalog Research Tools Make the most of your research time with the resources in this section. While no appointment is necessary to use holdings during normal operations, researchers are strongly encouraged to contact the Library in advance because material may be stored offsite and/or have restrictions. Here, a brief explanation of the tools linked below. HOLLIS is the Harvard Library’s catalog. Search HOLLIS for articles, books, manuscript materials, media, and more. With HOLLIS for Archival Discovery, search for letters, photographs, film and video, print items, digital materials, objects, and other primary sources. HOLLIS Images is the Harvard Library’s dedicated image catalog. It includes content from archives, museums, libraries, and other collections throughout Harvard University. Use Ask a Librarian to submit research questions as well as queries about Library policies and procedures, to schedule a research consultation, and to confirm availability of collections. To locate materials, use the HOLLIS catalog to start you search. You can limit results to Schlesinger Library holding in the advanced search mode. Use HOLLIS Special Request to order Schlesinger materials for use in the Carol K. Pforzheimer Reading Room. HOLLIS Special Request is available to Harvard and non-Harvard researchers and can be used at any participating Harvard library or archives. For more information on how to create, manage, and navigate the Harvard Special Request tool, see the HOLLIS Special Request guide. Consult our Research Guides for an introduction by subject to various holdings. The guides are meant to help you begin your research on select topics and are not complete lists of relevant material. HOLLIS (Library Catalog) HOLLIS for Archival Discovery HOLLIS Images Ask a Librarian Request Archival Collections HOLLIS Special Request Research Guides Selections: News from the Schlesinger Library 01 / 20 Slide left Slide right Hard Times, Profound Histories Zooming the Archives A Woman's Place Is at the Convention The Library Welcomes New Executive Director In Process: Adrienne Kennedy Papers and Dorothy I. Height Papers Marketing Menstruation Writing from the Library, Winter 2022 Meeting the Moment Staying Connected Still Processing The World Stopped, the Queries Didn’t Layered Narratives in the Papers of Helen Zia Let's Talk About Sex! Unpacking Angela Davis Birth of a Sleuth An Intimate Narrative of NOW’s Sweeping History Sweet Music Behind Women’s Suffrage, Untold Subplots A Deeper Sense of Her Own Story The Fight of Her Life: Gender Equality Ask a Schlesinger Librarian Virtual reference services are available. Click through to ask a question or make an appointment with a research librarian at the Schlesinger Library. We’re eager to talk about your research needs. How can we help you? Events 01 / 02 Slide left Slide right 04 Apr 2022 01 Oct 2022 exhibition Out for Blood: Feminine Hygiene to Menstrual Equity 14 Feb 2022 02 Jul 2022 exhibition Gala Porras-Kim: Precipitation for an Arid Landscape See All Events News & Ideas Zooming the Archives A Woman's Place Is at the Convention The Library Welcomes a New Executive Director Gathering the Ghosts Birth of a Sleuth History Comes Alive through the Archives In Research on Feminism and Gay Rights, a Case for Unity Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College