A.D. Bruce Religion Center - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to A.D. Bruce Religion Center Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search A.D. Bruce Religion Center Home About Us Mission & Vision History Lieutenant General Andrew Davis Bruce Reuter Pipe Organ Contact Us Hours of Operation Events Event Calendar Signature Events UH Day of Remembrance Free Weekly Food Opportunities Interfaith Week Meet Your Ministries Good Morning Mondays Interfaith Dialogue Dinner Free Wednesday Lunch Virtual Activities & Engagement Wellness/Well-Being Spiritual Meditation 25 Quick Ways to Reduce Stress Reservations Pricing Chart Reservation Form Policies and Procedures Online Payment Form Weddings Make Your Reservation University Chapel Meditation Chapel Policies and Procedures FAQ Online Payment Form Campus Ministries Campus Ministries Association Interfaith 2022 Holy Days Calendar Black History Month Women’s History Month Student Organizations Giving Celebrate Spiritual Diversity The Latest Updates on COVID-19 Important Note: For the most up-to-date information about building hours, programs, and events, please continue to follow us on our social media platforms, Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter to stay connected about events, programs & virtual engagement opportunities. The "We Are Here" campaign ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. WE ARE HERE IF YOU WANT TO CELEBRATE. WE ARE HERE IF YOU ARE HUNGRY. WE ARE HERE IF YOU NEED TO REFLECT. WE ARE HERE IF YOU WANT TO DISCOVER. WE ARE HERE IF YOU WANT TO MEDITATE. All Are Welcome About Us CELEBRATE SPIRITUAL DIVERSITY: A.D. Bruce Religion Center strives to welcome all. We embrace people of any age, race, gender identity, sexual orientation, class, ability, nationality, cultural background, theology, political views or anything else that might otherwise divide us. We recognize there are differences among us; yet we believe that even though we may not think alike, we can love alike. We especially proclaim this statement of welcome to any who have known the pain of exclusion or discrimination and offer a place of respite and inclusion. Upcoming Events Event Calendar GET INVOLVED Whether you're looking to practice your faith or spirituality, or are looking to explore your options, the A.D. Bruce Religion Center is here to help you find what you're looking for. 13Religions represented 88Free meals provided weekly 1000Reservations per year 39Registered Student Organizations 16Campus Ministries Featured Campus Ministry Campus Outreach seeks to build laborers with a commitment to Jesus and His Great Commission through evangelism and discipleship. We are passionately reaching students with the gospel and training them to become mature followers of Christ. Our desire is to see students leave college equipped to labor in the harvest field for the glory of God. Campus Ministries Take a Virtual Tour Make a virtual stop at the A.D. Bruce Religion Center with a narrated campus tour where you will hear about resources and program highlights. Continue on to other campus stops to round out your UH Virtual Tour experience, a university-wide project by YouVisit. Launch Experience Phone & Email adbrc@Central.UH.EDU (713) 743-5050 Address 3841 Cullen Boulevard University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-3050 Hours of Operation Building Hours Everyday: 8am - 10pm Office Hours Mon-Fri: 8am - 5pm University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies