Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Parent and Family Relations Menu Search TTU Parent and Family Relations Parents and Family Members of High School Students Texas Tech offers a wide range of academic and social experiences to prepare students to be successful in their lives. Being an involved parent is more crucial now than ever. Students need to know they have support as they navigate college life and strive to excel in a competitive arena. Research has shown that the more parents are involved, the more likely it is a student will remain enrolled and persist to graduation. Parent involvement at Texas Tech is encouraged! Visit Texas Tech's Undergraduate Admissions website to see what Texas Tech has to offer. You can also chat with an admissions counselor, take an online tour, and view images of Texas Tech. With over 150 different majors to choose from, there is something for everyone. Schedule a Campus Visit and check out special events the Visitor's Center plans each year. Visit Making College the Reality: A Guide for High School Parents, a resource to help you plan for your student's college education and show your student why college is important to his/her success First Year Talk to your guidance counselor to make sure you understand college entrance requirements Begin saving information about your scholastic and athletic achievements Get involved early At your school & in your community Much of your success in college will depend on your ability to manage time Colleges look for students who are active and are able to handle busy schedules The more people you meet, the more experience you gain, the better chance you will have of discovering your interests It's never too early to dream about "what you want to be when you grow up" Don't forget to have fun! Sophomore Year Meet with your guidance counselor to ensure you are on target with your core academic requirements Choose a cause and devote some of your free time to that cause The more you give to the community and others in need, the more the community will give back to you in return Schedule yourself to take the PSAT in the spring Taking the PSAT can only help you. It does not count in terms of college admissions Stay active in your school. Consider taking on a leadership role of some sort. Keep in mind that it is never a failure to try something and temporarily not succeed. The only time you fail in life is when you stop trying Keep a daily planner and use it for everything you do School, work and even home activities Time management is crucial in terms of preparing for college Develop good habits now and the rest will be easy. (Well maybe not easy, but easier) Junior Year Meet with your guidance counselor to ensure you are on target with your core academic requirements Discuss your GPA and class rank Schedule yourself to take the SAT and/or the ACT Consider using a study guide prior to the exam Stay active in your extra-curricular activities Consider volunteering for a community activity or event Look for scholarship, grant and financial aid opportunities now The more you look, the more you will find Familiarize yourself with the proper essays and qualifications needed to receive such money Sign up for our business/professional mentor program Whether you want to be a teacher, engineer, hotel manager, doctor, fashion designer, lawyer, airline pilot or a business owner, one way to find out if it is for you is to talk with people already in that field. Don't wait until you are already in college. Too many students change majors or schools because they did not know what career they wanted to pursue. This causes many students to become frustrated and drop out. Begin attending recruitment receptions held by colleges/universities in your area either by open or special invitation. Meet people and ask questions to get a feel of the type of people at the institution. Know who your Texas Tech Admissions Counselor is. Senior Year Meet with your guidance counselor to ensure you are on target with your core academic requirements Schedule yourself to retake the SAT and/or the ACT APPLY FOR FINANCIAL AID! Stay active in your extra-curricular and community service oriented activities. Continue your studies and working hard on your time management skills. Make a list of colleges that interest you and log application date deadlines. Adapted from www.believeyoucanfly.org Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Parent and Family Relations Like Parent and Family Relations on FacebookLike Parent and Family Relations on Facebook Follow Parent and Family Relations on twitterFollow Parent and Family Relations on twitter Subscribe to Parent and Family Relations on YouTubeSubscribe to Parent and Family Relations on YouTube Follow Parent and Family Relations on InstagramFollow Parent and Family Relations on Instagram Address 201Q Student Union Building, Box 42024, Lubbock, Texas 79409-2024 Phone 806.742.3630 Email parent@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJun 18, 2020 3:07 PM Parent and Family Relations Meet Our Staff/Contact Us Programs & Events Parent and Family Relations Programs & Events Back Family Weekend/Family Days Sibling Saturday Webinar Series Holiday Bus Trips Red Raider Orientation Parent & Family Relations Think Tank Resources for Parents and Families Parent and Family Relations Resources for Parents and Families Back Resources for Parents and Families Student Safety and Wellness Parents and Family Member of High School Students eNewletters & Publications How to Get Involved! Texas Tech Parents Association Información en español Parent and Family Relations Información en español Back ¡BIENVENIDOS, PADRES Y FAMILIAS! Ver esta pagina en español La guía del padres y la familia Lubbock, TX Parent and Family Relations Lubbock, TX Back City of Lubbock Hotel Accommodations Weather Visit Lubbock Map of Lubbock Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index