Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Staff Directory Rachel Y. Rush Rachel Y. Rush Rachel Rush joined Columbia Health in fall 2016. Prior to Columbia, Rachel worked as a social worker at Bellevue Hospital in both the Psychiatry Walk-in Clinic and the Outpatient Psychiatry Clinic, where she assisted individuals in getting connected to mental health resources. She also provided triage and crisis management services, conducted individual and group psychotherapy, and supervised graduate social work and psychology students. Prior to Bellevue Hospital, she worked at the Center for Comprehensive Health Practice, where she provided individual and group psychotherapy to individuals with primary substance use disorders. She received her M.S.W. in clinical social work from New York University and her B.A. in religious studies from the University of Pennsylvania. Rachel also received her seminar in field instruction certification from the Hunter School of Social Work in 2014, and her certificate in relational psychotherapy/psychoanalysis from the Stephen Mitchell Center for Relational Studies in 2015. Rachel’s professional interests include assisting individuals in connecting to mental health services that match their clinical and financial needs, as well as the intersection of spirituality and psychotherapy, identity development, mindfulness for stress reduction, and group psychotherapy. Education: M.S.W., New York University B.A., University of Pennsylvania Certifications and Licensure: Licensed to practice social work in the State of New York Licensed Clinical Social Worker Contact Info Counseling and Psychological Services Alfred Lerner Hall, 5th and 8th Floors, Mail Code 2606 2920 Broadway New York, NY 10027 +1 212 854 2878 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close