Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement Leadership Community Engagement Fraternity & Sorority Life Student Organizations Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Student Engagement Registered Student Organizations Join an RSOStart/Manage an RSOAccountability StatusHazing PreventionAdvise an RSOPLATiger ZoneCorq App Spirit Initiatives Student Event Allocation What is SEA?How to Submit a ProposalUpcoming Events Student Activities Council About SACSAC CommitteesEvent CalendarJoin SAC Fraternities & Sororities About FSA Potential Members Member Resources Information for Parents Interfraternity Council (IFC) National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) Panhellenic Council (PAN) Involvement Ambassadors Report a Concern about a Student Take Action Register for Recruitment Register for Frosh Camp Tiger Zone About Us Follow SLI Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement Fraternity & Sorority Affairs Information for Parents Information for Parents What is a fraternity or sorority? p>Fraternities and sororities are unique organizations on campus. They are a student organization recognized by the University of Memphis, but also a local chapter of a national organization with undergraduate chapters at colleges and universities across the nation. First, they are values-based organizations that create opportunities for students to get involved in campus life. Each group focuses their activities around what we call the Pillars of Fraternity and Sorority Life: Brotherhood, Sisterhood, Scholarship, Leadership, and Service. How many students at the Univeristy of Memphis join a fraternity or sorority? More than 10% of the undergraduate students at University of Memphis are members of fraternities and sororities. That tracks consistently with many of our peer institutions. What is the time commitment? Students should consider time commitments when joining any organization on campus. Fraternity and sorority membership does require a commitment of time. You should count on your student participating in regular weekly meetings along with service projects, leadership programs, and social activities throughout the year. Like any activity, students need to strike a good balance with their commitments. What are the benefits of joining a fraternity or sorority? The greatest benefit to joining is finding small groups of students that help make a large campus feel like home. Students can take on chapter leadership roles, gain experience through community service, and get involved in campus leadership through their fraternity or sorority. Additionally, since membership is for a lifetime, these opportunities continue well past graduation. How much does it cost? Each organization sets its own budgets and dues so costs vary from chapter to chapter. Membership dues can range from $200 to $1000 each semester and each group includes different activities and fees in their structure. It is important that your student ask for a detailed breakdown of costs from any organization they consider joining. What role does alcohol play? Alcohol is challenging issue for college students in general and for fraternities and sororities. Organizations receive significant training from both Fraternity and Sorority Affairs and their national organizations regarding alcohol and risk management. All of our Panhellenic sororities and several fraternities prohibit alcohol in their chapter houses. Alcohol is not permitted in recruitment activities or new member education programs. What about pledging or hazing? All chapters have a new member education program that is designed to teach them the history, traditions, values, and expectations of their organization. Hazing has no place in these programs and Fraternity and Sorority Affairs works closely with each local chapter and national organization to set clear expectations for new member activities. This includes setting reasonable limits on time commitments, activities, and length of program. If you have concerns about that hazing, may be occurring, please contact the Fraternity and Sorority Affairs and speak with a staff member. Who oversees fraternities and sororities? Each sorority and fraternity at the University of Memphis is a local chapter of a national organization, which means they all have a governance structure that includes local and regional alumni volunteers and a national leadership structure. Fraternity and Sorority Affairs recognizes these undergraduate chapters and provides a level of oversight designed to promote a healthy experience for our students. What can I do to support my student? You should take an active interest in your student's fraternity or sorority membership, just as you would with an academic program. You can help them make good decisions by listening and offering good advice. It is important to remember that your student is an adult, their membership agreement is between them and their organization, and you can best help them by asking questions and helping them make the most of their membership. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/27/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.