Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU Sea Camp and Outreach Search Residential Camp Day Camp Educator Internship Field Trip Opportunities Select Web or PeopleWebPeople Search Introduction Field Trip Programs Let's Get Started Frequently Asked Questions Directions Sea Camp and Outreach Residential Camp Day Camp Educator Internship Field Trip Opportunities Sea Camp and Outreach SeaAggie Field Trips A Hands-On Marine Adventure for schools and groups offered at Texas A&M University Galveston Campus. Spotlight Link 1 Introduction Spotlight Link 2 Field Trip Programs Spotlight Link 3 Let's Get Started Spotlight Link 4 Frequently Asked Questions Spotlight Link 5 Directions Field Trips: Educational Outreach We are no longer taking Field Trip Requests for Spring 2022 as we are currently full. Field Trip requests may be made for Fall 2022-Spring 2023 starting September 1st, 2022. In addition to our summer adventures, we offer a variety of field trips and programs throughout the Fall and Spring semesters. There’s a lot to learn about marine life and many ways to go about doing so. Download Waiver Contact Us: Sea Camp Business Office (409)740-4525 seacamp@tamug.edu 1001 Texas Clipper Rd. Galveston, TX 77554-1675 FacebookInstagramYoutube Programs: Field Trip Opportunities Research Vessel Trip - R/V Earl Milan Research Vessel Trip - R/V Earl Milan Duration: 3 hours Maximum # of participants: 24 Price: $730.00 Vessel Departure times: 8:30a.m. & 1:30p.m. Students learn physical, chemical and biological oceanography aboard TAMUG’s 42-foot Research Vessel Earl L. Milan. Sort and identify finfish and shellfish from shrimp otter trawl Sieve mud sampled by a Ponar-type benthic grab for annelid worms and other bottom dwellers. Observe our local marine mammal - the bottlenose dolphin. Life jackets included. Trip includes a licensed captain, deckhand, and our outreach biologist. Research Vessel Trip - R/V Trident Research Vessel Trip - R/V Trident Duration: 3 hours Maximum # of participants: 40 Price: $950.00 Vessel Departure times: 8:30a.m. & 1:30p.m. Learn physical, chemical and biological oceanography aboard our 68-foot R/V Trident. Sample water quality for a handful of critical hydrographic parameters, e.g. water temperature, dissolved oxygen, turbidity, and pH, and understand their impacts to estuary biota. Sieve mud sampled by a Ponar-type benthic grab for annelid worms and other bottom-dwellers. Observe our local marine mammal - the bottlenose dolphin. The R/V Trident is suitable for educational-based fishing trips to the Galveston Jetties and inshore bay sites proximate to our campus (definitely a 4-hour commitment). Life jackets included. Trip includes a licensed captain, deckhand and one to two outreach biologists. Salt Marsh and Estuarine Ecology Trip Salt Marsh and Estuarine Ecology Trip Duration: 2 - 3 hours Maximum # of students: 50 Price: $13.00 per student Wade waist-deep into our local salt marsh getting wet and a little muddy. Seine for inch-long red drum, southern flounder, spotted seatrout and other finfish species too numerous to name. Capture brown shrimp, blue crabs, and sea snot! Learn of the Galveston estuary, its ecology and the critical functions of the Spartina salt marsh. A closed-toe, lace-up tennis shoe, preferably two, is a must! Sea Turtle Biology and Ecology Presentation Sea Turtle Biology and Ecology Presentation Duration: 1 hour Maximum # of participants: 80 Price: $5.00 per student Explore sea turtle biology and ecology. Learn the seven species of sea turtles, all of which are listed as threatened or endangered, and which of these species occur in the Gulf of Mexico. Discuss the differences and similarities between freshwater turtles and sea turtles. Nesting Ecology can be added to the Sea Turtle Experience for $2 extra per student and would be an additional hour of activity. Oyster Reef Exploration Oyster Reef Exploration Duration: 2 hours Maximum # of participants: 80 Price: $5.00 per student Activities offered include oyster reef ecology, oyster anatomy, oyster restoration, and microbiology related to oyster disease. Students will learn the importance of oyster reefs and get a hands on look while helping us evaluate the quality of our oyster restoration at Texas A&M Galveston Campus. Students will explore oysters and identify native & invasive species while exploring the oyster food chain in their oyster sample. These animals include oyster toad fish, boring sponge, clam worms, various species of crabs, and live oysters. Instruction and workshops planned for the center include invertebrate zoology, coastal plant and wetland ecology, pollution biology and coastal erosion. Crabbing Crabbing Duration: 2 hours Maximum # of participants: 80 Price: $5.00 per student Activities offered include blue crab biology & crabbing for blue crabs. This field trip allows students to explore our wetlands at Texas A&M Galveston Campus while searching for crab species including blue crabs, lesser blue crabs, and green striped hermit crabs. Students will be provided bait and a net and instructed how to identify the different crab species. Instruction includes invertebrate zoology, coastal plant and wetland ecology, and invertebrate anatomy. Students must wear closed toe shoes. Shark Biology Presentation with Spiny Dogfish Dissections Shark Biology Presentation with Spiny Dogfish Dissections Duration: 2 hours Maximum # of participants: 80 Price: $10.00 per student Jump into shark-infested waters, figuratively, with this introduction to cartilaginous fishes. Learn the differences between sharks & rays and bony fishes. Hands-on instruction in characteristics distinguishing the more than 360 species of sharks to their eight orders including the bull shark, shortfin mako, horn shark and Atlantic nurse shark. Dissect a dogfish shark with your classmate including stomach contents, the shark. Shark Biology Presentation without Dissections Shark Biology Presentation without Dissections Duration: 1 hour Maximum # of participants: 80 Price: $5.00 per student Peek inside TAMUG’s teaching collection of sharks and explore the differences between sharks and bony fishes including adaptations reflecting their ecological niches. Learn the differences between sharks & rays and bony fishes. Hands-on instruction in characteristics distinguishing the more than 360 species of sharks to their eight orders including the bull shark, shortfin mako, horn shark and Atlantic nurse shark. Fish Biology Presentation with Bony Fish Dissections Fish Biology Presentation with Bony Fish Dissections Duration: 2 hours Maximum # of participants: 80 Price: $5.00 per student Examine a half-dozen fish species -all slimy-exploring their specific adaptations related to their habitat and feeding behaviors. Dissect a scaly critter to better understand its similarities, and differences, with ourselves and other vertebrates. *fish printing may be added to this field trip Campus Tours with Sea Camp Campus Tours with Sea Camp At this time, Sea Camp will not be offering Campus Tours or dining in our campus cafeteria in order to not overwhelm our on campus community. Virtual Field Trips Virtual Field Trips $35 per hour of virtual classroom supplemental instruction for schools! Are you an educator in need of supplemental instruction? Invite us into your classroom today! We’ll provide the science content while you learn along with your students! These virtual experiences include custom hour long virtual classroom supplemental instruction for schools. Created with K-12 educators in mind, our virtual classroom is designed to encourage students to learn and discover through STEM education. Paired with our FREE pre-recorded videos available on YouTube, students may explore the marine environment and have their questions answered or experience a custom program through Sea Camp. Request a Virtual Field Trip today! Subjects Include: Sharks & Fish Marine Mammals Sea Turtles Beach and Salt Marsh Plants Marine Biology Careers Oysters & Invertebrates Conservation *This program is not designed for individual students or families. *Custom programs may be subject to additional cost. Let's Get Started Once you have chosen a field trip program right for your school, please send an email to seacamp@tamug.edu with the following information: Name Of School: Number of Students: Number of Chaperones Age/Grade of Students: Field Trip Program of Choice: 3 Date preferences: Arrival/Departure time: Frequently Asked Questions Who will be our field guides/biologists? Your field guides are students and former students at Texas A&M University at Galveston. Our staff includes knowledgeable and enthusiastic undergraduate and graduate students., and TAMUG Marine Biology graduates. What are the requirements to participate in your field trips? First, you must contact us to schedule your trip. After your trip is scheduled, you will receive waiver forms and an invoice. A waiver for each participant must be completed and turned in on the day of the trip along with a roster of all participants. E-rosters of all attendees are required 24 hours prior to your scheduled field trip, and as soon as possible if requesting a visit to the NOAA Sea Turtle Facility. Full payment is due the day of the field trip. We accept check or credit card. What items and clothes should our students and teachers bring and wear? Uniform of the day is always a comfortable pair of lace-up tennis shoes that can take a trip into the salt marsh. Tennis shoes or other closed-toe shoes are required in the labs for shark dissections, aboard research vessels and for our campus tours. Change of clothes and shoes, beach towels, baseball caps, cameras, sunscreen, and mosquito repellant are often recommended or essential items depending on your field trip - campus tour activities. Directions: Texas A&M Galveston Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Rd. Galveston, TX 77554 From I-45 South: 1. Take Exit IC toward Harborside Dr./Teichman Rd. 2. Turn LEFT at light onto Harborside Dr. 3. Drive 2.7 miles and turn LEFT onto Seawolf Pkwy. 4. Cross the bridge onto Pelican Island. 5. Continue through the student crosswalk. 6. Turn RIGHT at the Valero gas station onto Texas Clipper Road. 7. Continue straight on Texas Clipper Road and park in the parking lot in front of the Sea Aggie Center. Busses will park in the back lot. (All visitors excluding school busses must pay for visitor parking at the kiosks or via smartphone if staying on campus over 30 minutes) 8.Walk in to the glass doors and go straight Download Campus Map © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675, Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway, Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road, Galveston, TX 77554 Site Policies Back to top