Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Professional MBA Welcome Admissions Tuition, Fees, & Financial Aid Current MBA Students Faculty FAQs FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action See Other MBA Options Apply Now Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Professional MBA FAQs Frequently Asked Questions With prospective and current MBA students in mind, we have grouped frequently asked questions by topic. Admissions Registration Advising International Students Core Curriculum Electives Transfer Credit Academic Standing Graduation Admissions Is there a minimum GPA, or minimum GMAT/GRE scores for admission? Admissions decisions are based on undergraduate GPA from an accredited institution, review of applicant's resume, personal statement of interest in the program, response to required essay question, one Letter of Recommendation, and GMAT or GRE score (if applicable). While there are no strict cut-off scores for admission, the average GMAT of students admitted in recent years is 500 and the GRE is 300. The Admissions Committee will conduct an evaluation of the applicant's admissions packet as a whole. Go back to FAQ by topic. Do I need to take the GMAT or GRE? You may or you may not need to take the GRE/GMAT. To be admitted into the MBA program, you must meed one of the following 5 criteria: Undergraduate GPA of 3.0 or higher from an accredited external college or university Please provide an unofficial transcript with your application. If your degree is not from the US and you wish to obtain a GPA-based waiver, you need to have a course-by course evaluation with grade point average (GPA) equivalency done by any credentialing agency listed on the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) website. Undergraduate GPA of 2.75 or higher from the University of Memphis Please provide your UID or an unofficial transcript with your application. Have earned a graduate degree from an accredited institution in the United States This includes degrees such as an MS, MA, MSBA, JD, MD, PharmD, etc. Five (5) or more years of Management Experience “Management experience” here means that you have held a position where at least 10 employees report directly to you. To obtain a waiver, you will need to submit an extended resume highlighting the number of years spent in a management position (as defined above) and the number of direct reports. After submitting your extended resume to an MBA advisor, it will be reviewed by a committee to determine whether or not the waiver is granted. Please note that process management and project management do not count as “management experience”. If a waiver is not granted, you will need to submit GRE or GMAT scores with your application. GRE or GMAT test score Admissions decision can be made using unofficial test scores. However, official scores are required by the end of the first semester Go back to FAQ by topic. What information should the Statement of Purpose, Essay or Letters of Recommendation include? Your Statement of Purpose, Essay and Letters of Recommendation should adequately address what your motivation is for pursuing an MBA, what your goals from obtaining the MBA degree are, what your plans are after obtaining the degree, and why you would be a successful candidate for our MBA program. If applicable, this is your opportunity to explain to the admissions committee why your undergraduate grades reflect (or fail to reflect) your potential to perform as a graduate student, and include specific examples of how you have shown your abilities throughout your work experience. Go back to FAQ by topic. What if I applied and was accepted for a current term, but cannot attend until the next term? Fill out the Student Academic Program Update form found here. Fill out the top section as well as section 3 and make sure to sign, print your name, and date at the bottom of the form. Email the completed form to your MBA advisor. She will send it to Graduate Admissions for processing. Go back to FAQ by topic. If I miss a semester will I be required to reapply? If you have previously been admitted to the program, you are only required to submit a Readmit application and an updated resume. Go back to FAQ by topic. I'm admitted into the PMBA/OMBA degree, what is my next step? Click here to access the New Student Guide. You will find step-by-step instructions to enroll for courses, and links to policies you need to be familiar with. Go back to FAQ by topic. Do I have to use my university email account? Yes. You should check this account DAILY. The University of Memphis assigns an email account and email address to all University of Memphis students. Throughout the year, a number of offices communicate with students using this email address. Go back to FAQ by topic. Can I have my university email account forwarded to another email account? Yes. Please follow the instructions below: Browse to https://iam.memphis.edu Log in with your UUID and your password (note: the password is the same that you use to log into services like UMmail). Select "Modify Email Preferences". Select "Set Email Delivery Destination". Enter the email address you would like your university email forwarded to. Click "Submit". Go back to FAQ by topic. Registration When does the Registration period begin? Spring registration begins in November. Registration for both Summer and Fall begins in April. Go back to FAQ by topic. I am trying to register for a class that is already closed. How do I request a Permit? If a class is closed, you will first need to email the instructor of the class, requesting permission to add the course. If the instructor approves, forward the email to your advisor. You will need to include your U# and the CRN of the class. Your advisor will then issue you a permit. Go back to FAQ by topic. I am trying to register for a class that is still open, but requires a permit. How do I request a Permit? If a permit is required for a class that has seats still available (e.g. MGMT 7160), you will need to email your advisor to enter a permit before you may register. Please include your U# and the CRN for the class. Go back to FAQ by topic. Are there any restrictions on class sections for PMBA and OMBA students? Yes, when registering for classes, please note that any class sections listed as "EMBA students only" are not available for Professional MBA or Online MBA students. There are specific online sections and evening on-campus sections reserved for PMBA and OMBA students. Please refer to our Course Offerings page for updated information per semester. Go back to FAQ by topic. I need to add a class after the deadline, how do I do that? Visit this website: https://www.memphis.edu/registrar/register/lateadd-reg.php and follow the directions. Go back to FAQ by topic. I need to register for courses but it's after the deadline. How do I do that? Visit this website: https://www.memphis.edu/registrar/register/lateadd-reg.php and follow the directions. Go back to FAQ by topic. How do I register? Login to MyMemphis Click the "Student" tab Find the box labeled "Registration Tools" Click on "Add or Drop Classes" Select the semester Find the row of boxes near the bottom of the page Type in the Course Record Number (CRN) for the class you are registering for or click on Look Up Classes. Click "Register" Go back to FAQ by topic. I need to drop a course. How do I do that? Login to MyMemphis Click the "Student" tab Find the box labeled "Registration Tools" Click on "Add or Drop Classes" Select the semester Next to the course titles, select "Drop" from the drop-down menu Click "Submit" For reimbursement details, visit the University Student and Business Services office's calendar page, and click on the appropriate calendar. See the "Fee Adjustment/Refund Deadlines for Tuition and Fees for Each Part of Term (POT)" for specific refund information. Refunds may only be granted before the drop deadline. See the Registrar's calendar for more information. Go back to FAQ by topic. I need to drop a course but it's after the drop deadline. How do I do that? You will need to withdraw from the course, and you will not be able to get a refund. Go back to FAQ by topic. How to Drop a Course After Deadline Login to MyMemphis Click the "Student" tab Find the box labeled "Registration Tools" Click on "Add or Drop Classes" Select the semester Next to the course titles, select "Withdraw" from the drop-down menu Click "Submit" The course will receive a "W" grade and appear on your transcript. See the Registrar's calendar, "Drop / Withdraw / Refund Deadlines" for more information about the drop period and withdrawal period deadlines. Contact your advisor if you need to withdraw after the withdrawal period. Go back to FAQ by topic. Advising Who is my Advisor? If your Last Name (Surname) starts with letters A - L: Emily Melonas Smith Location: Graduate Programs Office 101 Fogelman College Administration Building Memphis, TN 38152 Email: emelonas@memphis.edu Phone: 901.678.3656 If your Last Name (Surname) starts with letters M - Z: April Jones Location: Graduate Programs Office 101 Fogelman College Administration Building Memphis, TN 38152 Email: Jhrris12@memphis.edu Phone: 901.678.3499 Go back to FAQ by topic. Do I need to meet with my Advisor each semester before I register for classes? Advising meetings may be scheduled upon request but are not required. Meeting with your advisor is encouraged if this is your first semester. Go back to FAQ by topic. How can I meet with my advisor? Please click here to schedule an advising appointment using the Navigate portal. If you have any questions about Navigate, please contact c2c@memphis.edu. Go back to FAQ by topic. What is an Alternate PIN? The Alternate PIN must be cleared each semester before registration by your advisor. Your Academic Advisor will clear your Alternate PIN before each registration period. Go back to FAQ by topic. When does the Registration period begin? Spring registration begins in November. Summer and Fall registration begins in April. Go back to FAQ by topic. International Students I am an international student, what information do I need to know? FOR ALL International Inquiries, please review the International Student Services website. Make sure to read this entire site as it has information for new students, current students, and important resources. Go back to FAQ by topic. Additional enrollment requirements for International Students You must be enrolled in at least 3 courses for a total of 9 hours in your first semester enrolled, and every Spring and Fall semester after, except for your last semester. You may only be enrolled in ONE online course at 3 credit hours per semester. Go back to FAQ by topic. Core Curriculum Are there any prerequisites? There are no formal prerequisites. However, students entering the MBA programs are expected to have a working understanding of key concepts in economics, finance, and accounting. In addition, students are expected to have a working proficiency in statistics. If students have deficiencies in the basic concepts and skills of business, they may be counseled (by the MBA Program Director and/or the MBA advisors) to take preparatory courses and/or secure self-paced review materials. Go back to FAQ by topic. Am I allowed to take a mix of online and on-campus courses? Yes, currently you have the option to take courses online and on-campus, as long as you are not an online-only student, as is the case with UM Global. Go back to FAQ by topic. Am I allowed to take online and campus courses for UM Global? No, in order to be considered UM Global and receive specific tuition and fees, students must take all courses online. Go back to FAQ by topic. If I originally enrolled in the Online MBA and decided to transfer to the Professional MBA program 100%, will my classes transfer? Yes, the PMBA and OMBA program courses and credits are identical. You may also switch between the PMBA program to the OMBA program. You only need to notify your advisor of this change. Go back to FAQ by topic. Elective Courses What elective courses can I choose for the PMBA and OMBA programs? You may take any FCBE offered course 6000 or 7000 level as your elective. Specific class offerings are listed per semester on the PMBA and OMBA webpage under "Current Class Schedule." If you find a class not listed, please contact your advisor for approval. Go back to FAQ by topic. Do I have the option to take an elective course outside of Fogelman? Yes, per the MBA Director's approval. Please contact your advisor for more information. Go back to FAQ by topic. May I complete the MBA Program and a Certificate Program simultaneously? Yes, we encourage students to take advantage of the Certificate Programs offered by the academic Departments within Fogelman College of Business and Economics. Go back to FAQ by topic. Transfer Credit Are courses that I have earned at another Institution transferrable to the University of Memphis MBA degree? Credit towards a graduate degree does not transfer automatically. In general, however, graduate work completed at another institution in a program accredited at the graduate level may be accepted in a graduate degree program at the University, with the following provisions: Courses relate to the content of the graduate program and/or are comparable to those offered at the University. Courses do not exceed time limitations set for master's and doctoral programs. Credit previously earned at another institution must be presented for evaluation no later than the end of the student's second semester of enrollment. Only transcripts received directly from an issuing institution are considered official. Grades earned at another institution will not be computed in the University cumulative grade point average, nor will they be accepted for transfer, unless they are "B" (3.0) or better. No credit will be transferred unless it meets with the approval of the major advisor or program graduate coordinator. For more information about transfer credit, please visit the Graduate Catalog Academic Regulations page. Go back to FAQ by topic. Academic Standing My GPA is below a 3.0, what does this mean? A graduate student whose cumulative grade point average drops below 3.00 will be placed on Academic Probation. A second consecutive semester on probation can result in suspension. Students on Academic Probation must make an appointment with their Advisor to discuss an appropriate plan of action Go back to FAQ by topic. Graduation How do I apply to Graduate? Visit our "Resources for Current Students" page, and click on the links to "Graduation Requirements" and "Graduation Instructions". Your advisor will send out graduation emails at the beginning of each semester providing you with step by step instructions on how to apply to graduate. Please wait for this email to file. For a complete set of Candidacy Form and Graduation Instructions, please click here. Go back to FAQ by topic. I have a GPA under a 3.0, can I still graduate? No, you must have a 3.0 GPA or higher in order to graduate with your MBA degree. Please contact your advisor with any concerns or questions. Go back to FAQ by topic. How long do I have to complete my Master's degree? All requirements for the degree must be completed in eight (8) years. This includes any breaks in continuous enrollment. Go back to FAQ by topic. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/14/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.