Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Department of Biostatistics Home About Academics Doctoral Program Master's Program Undergraduate Concentration Career Information Series Resources Dissertation Spotlight Courses Research People News Site Navigation Home Statistics Seminars Series Seminar Archive About Job Postings Our Partners Academics Doctoral Program Ph.D. FAQs Master's Program Sc.M. Degree 5th Year (A.M.)/OGE NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics Welcome from the chair Master's FAQs Undergraduate Concentration Career Information Series Resources Dissertation Spotlight Courses Introductory Biostatistics Courses Research People Administration Faculty Students Current Doctoral Students Current Master’s Students Alumni News News Item Submission Resources The Department of Biostatistics Handbook provides students and prospective students with clear guidelines and instructive detail concerning the Doctoral and Masters Graduate Programs' requirements and expectations. Biostatistics Handbook The Individual Development Plan (IDP) is a valuable tool that gives students the opportunity to address their short-term and long-term career goals. The Brown University School of Public Health requires that all students complete an IDP and that compliance is monitored by home Departments. IDPs are also an NIH mandate for students working on NIH-funded research projects. The Department views the IDP as an important opportunity to review progress with your advisor, set academic and research goals for the coming year, and update your academic CV. Individual Development Plan (IDP) The Department of Biostatistics requires all graduate students to complete an IDP each year. New students will be provided their login credentials following orientation. Other helpful resources: School of Public Health Student Resources Facilities and computing All PhD graduate students are provided with a new laptop computer and office space in the School of Public Health building at 121 South Main St. Master's students have access to shared office space. All students have access to the computing infrastructure at the Center for Statistical Sciences, a high-end, continuously updated computing environment featuring both Unix and PC/MAC networks, with access to all major software for data analysis and numerical computing. CSS also maintains a considerable collection of statistics texts and journals in the Walter Freiberger Biostatistics Library. Academics Doctoral Program Master's Program Undergraduate Concentration Career Information Series Resources Dissertation Spotlight Courses Department of Biostatistics Department of Biostatistics Brown University Box G-S121-7 121 S Main St, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9831 Fax: 401-863-9182 Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top