Skip to main content Columbia University Home Search form Search Our Services Adult Programs Current Adult Learners & Teachers ESOL High School Equivalency (TASC) CUNY Assessment Test Preparation College Road Job Road CAFE Prep Student Pre-Registration Form Volunteer Registration Form Youth Programs Emergency Services Health Student Executive Board Our Supporters Support Community Impact Giving Tuesday CI Endowment Campaign Community Impact Alumni Organization (CIAO) Sharing Our Stories Benefit About Us Mission History Leadership Our Impact News & Events Contact Our Opportunities Work Study Job Opportunities Van Amson Service Fellowship Volunteering Donate Home Our Supporters CI Endowment Campaign CI Endowment Campaign Our Supporters Support Community Impact Giving Tuesday CI Endowment Campaign Community Impact Alumni Organization (CIAO) Sharing Our Stories Benefit Support CI Today! Your support allows us to bring high-quality services to the Morningside Heights and Washington Heights communities. Learn More Support CI's Endowment Fund Help support CI's efforts into the future! Learn More CI Announces $5 Million Endowment Campaign Philip Milstein, Vice Chair of the Columbia University Trustees and a longtime CI supporter, officially announced our first Endowment Campaign. Community Impact is building a $5 million endowment that will provide a steady source of revenue for our programs and allow us to do more with more! Through support from the endowment, we will enhance our services, increase volunteer training, build on our evaluations efforts, and improve outreach to our many community members. We are pleased to have raised more than $2 million for the endowment to date. We hope that all of our alumni and supporters will become part of this historic campaign as we secure the remaining $2.9 million. Your support will ensure that our 900 volunteers from Columbia University and Barnard College can continue to deliver educational and social service programs to 8,000 low-income people in Upper Manhattan each year. This will strengthen Community Impact as the bridge between Columbia and the community. To learn how you can become a supporter of CI’s Endowment, please contact our office. You may also contribute to the Endowment Campaign by clicking on the link to the right, "Make a Secure Donation Online". Please indicate in the "Designation" box on the form that the gift is for the CI Endowment, including the number of years you would like to contribute. Donate now to CI's Endowment Campaign 105 Earl Hall, 2980 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1492 | [email protected] Our Services Adult Programs Current Adult Learners & Teachers ESOL High School Equivalency (TASC) CUNY Assessment Test Preparation College Road Job Road CAFE Prep Student Pre-Registration Form Volunteer Registration Form Youth Programs Emergency Services Health Student Executive Board Our Supporters Support Community Impact Giving Tuesday CI Endowment Campaign Community Impact Alumni Organization (CIAO) Sharing Our Stories Benefit About Us Mission History Leadership Our Impact News & Events Contact Our Opportunities Work Study Job Opportunities Van Amson Service Fellowship Volunteering Donate Follow us Facebook Twitter Copyright © Copyright Community Impact at Columbia University Site by Site by Bureau for Good