COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU Policies and Procedures Search Search 8.10 / Students with Disabilities Effective: August 08, 2017 Policy In accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, Wichita State University shall adhere to all applicable federal and state laws, regulations, and guidelines with respect to providing effective communications and modifications as necessary to afford equal access to programs for qualified persons with disabilities and to ensure that no qualified individual shall be, by reason of disability, excluded from participation in, or be denied the benefits of the services, programs, or activities of WSU, or be subjected to discrimination by WSU. Wichita State University is committed to providing equal access to employment, educational programs, and activities for students with disabilities. The University recognizes that students with disabilities may need accommodations to have equally effective opportunities to participate in or benefit from University educational programs, services and activities. Conformance to this policy does not negate the responsibility of Wichita State University to ensure that accessible technology and course content complies with applicable accessibility standards (see Section 8.11, Accessible Content). Responsibilities Office of Disability Services Applicants for admission and students requesting services, resources or accommodations for a disability should contact: Office of Disability Services Grace Wilkie Hall, Room 203 316-978-3309 (voice) 316-854-3032 (videophone) 316-978-3114 (fax) Disability.services@Wichita.edu (email) The Office of Disability Services serves as the main point of contact on issues related to ADA compliance for all persons involved in providing class instruction at WSU. The Office of Disability Services is responsible for: Determining effective communications and modifications to provide equal access for students with disabilities. Supervising the timely implementation of accommodations as requested by individual students, primarily through accommodation letters, and through other reasonable requests for assistance. Acting as a liaison between students and faculty to promptly and effectively resolve access issues. Academic Departments and Instructional Staff Academic departments and instructional staff are responsible for: Providing all accommodations recognized by WSU through “accommodation letters” in cooperation with the Office of Disability Services. Contacting the Office of Disability Services as soon as possible after receiving notification from a student that an accommodation is not being provided completely or correctly, so that a timely and appropriate resolution can be facilitated. Nonacademic Programs University offices and programs are responsible for providing accommodations for nonacademic programs with the assistance of the Office of Disability Services. Students Students are responsible for the following: Submitting documentation of their disability to the Office of Disability Services. Requesting and distributing accommodation letters to instructors. Updating accommodations through the Office of Disability Services. Requesting accommodations each academic semester for which accommodations are needed. Accommodations Wichita State University will make reasonable modifications to the environment, policy and practice and/or provide auxiliary aids and services when the Office of Disability Services determines such modifications are needed for equal access. Modifications may include, but are not limited to: Academic Requirements Accommodations can include changes in the length of time permitted for completion of degree requirements, substitution of specific courses required for the completion of degree requirements, adaptation of the manner in which specific courses are conducted, and elimination of rules which have the effect of limiting the participation of students with disabilities, such as rules prohibiting use of recorders in classrooms. Examinations Alternative methods for evaluating the achievement of students who have a disability that impairs sensory, manual, or speaking skills that will best assure that the results of evaluation represent the student's achievement in the course, rather than reflecting the disability. Accessible Classrooms WSU will move classes that are scheduled in inaccessible rooms to accessible rooms on request if a student has a disability that affects their access and alternative course sections are not a viable option because of schedule conflicts or other reasonable restrictions. Students needing new classroom assignments should contact the Office of Disability Services as soon as possible to allow adequate time for classroom changes. Auxiliary Aids and Adaptive Equipment Auxiliary aids include services, equipment, and procedures that allow students with disabilities access to learning and activities in and out of the classroom. They include but are not limited to: sign language interpreters, real time captioning services, adaptive technology, alternative media, exam accommodations, etc. The Office of Disability Services has information on procedures and timelines for use of WSU-provided auxiliary equipment. Appeal and Complaint Procedures Accommodation Appeal Process Division of Student Affairs If a student believes an accommodation or adjustment has not been appropriately determined or reasonable accommodations have not been provided, the student has the right to appeal the determination or provision to the Vice President for Student Affairs (Appeal Forms available via Disability Services) Office of Institutional Equity and Compliance If a student is not satisfied after utilizing the appeal process through the Office of Disability Services, the student may seek assistance from the Office of Institutional Equity and Compliance: Director of Equal Opportunity, Wichita State University 1845 Fairmount Street, Human Resources Building Wichita, KS 67260 (316) 978-3187 Discrimination Office of Institutional Equity and Compliance Students alleging discrimination in the University's employment practices, educational programs or activities on the basis of a protected status, including disability, may contact the following individual: Director of Equal Opportunity, Wichita State University 1845 Fairmount Street, Human Resources Building Wichita, KS 67260 (316) 978-3187 A complaint form can be found here. Complaints will be processed following the procedure outlined in Section 3.47, Discrimination Review Procedures for Student, Employees and Visitors. U.S. Department of Justice Individuals alleging disability discrimination may also file an Americans with Disabilities Act complaint with the U.S. Department of Justice. Complaints can be filed electronically, by fax or by mail. Mail: U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Civil Rights Division – Disability Rights Section/1425 NYAV Washington, DC 20530 Fax: (202)307-1197 ADA information line: (800)514-0301 – voice (800)514-0383 – TTY Definitions “Accessible” means: All individuals are able to independently acquire the same information, engage in the same interactions, and enjoy the same services within the same time frame as all other individuals, with substantially equivalent ease of use. “Qualified” means: A qualified student with a disability is a student with a disability who meets the academic and technical standards requisite for admission or participation in the institution's educational program or activity. “Instructional staff” means: All individuals who provide any course-related instruction to WSU students, including, but not limited to, professors, lecturers, fellows, and teaching assistants. Related Policies Section 3.02, Notice of Nondiscrimination Section 3.47, Discrimination Review Procedures for Students, Employees and Visitors Section 8.11, Accessible Content Wichita State University Policies And Procedures Main What's New Chapter 1 - University Structure Chapter 2 - Academic Policies Chapter 3 - General Employment Policies Chapter 4 - Faculty Policies Chapter 5 - Time, Pay, and Leave Chapter 6 - Unclassified Professional Employee Policies Chapter 7 - University Support Staff Policies Chapter 8 - Student Policies And Procedures Chapter 9 - Research And Sponsored Programs Chapter 10 - Environmental Health And Safety Chapter 11 - Facilities Chapter 12 - Budget Chapter 13 - Financial Operations Chapter 14 - Purchasing Chapter 15 - Central Services Chapter 16 - Physical Plant (Vacated) Chapter 17 - Rhatigan Student Center (Vacated) Chapter 18 - University Police Department Chapter 19 - Technology Chapter 20 - Miscellaneous Policies Chapter 21 - Emergency and Temporary Policies Policies And Procedures Manual - Policy 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©