Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> About the Libraries >> FSU Libraries Strategic Plan, 2020 - 2023 FSU Libraries Strategic Plan, 2020 - 2023 Ensure Equitable Access to Information Equitable access to information is critical to intellectual freedom and participation in a democratic society. Through thoughtful stewardship, preservation, and the promotion of diverse perspectives and voices, FSU Libraries will reduce barriers to information in all of its forms. View all related initiatives Establish the Library as a Center of Intellectual Community FSU Libraries will be the physical and virtual heart of the university, by inspiring open mindedness and intellectual freedom, providing ample space and resources for learning, and ensuring the safety and well-being of our users. View all related initiatives Enhance Research & Scholarship Through cultivation of programs, services, and partnerships, FSU Libraries will provide technical infrastructure and impart valuable skills to the university community, advancing innovative and emerging forms of research and scholarship. View all related initiatives Invest in People FSU Libraries will develop and support faculty, staff, and student employees, with a commitment to enriching the individual in order to elevate the institution. We will facilitate an institutional culture of transparency, equity, and professionalism. View all related initiatives Promote Critical Thinking Critical thinking is imperative to navigating the complex world of information and making sound decisions. FSU Libraries will enhance the critical thinking skills of our users and employees through teaching, training, and advocating for the effective discovery, analysis, evaluation, and use of information. View all related initiatives View Current Initiatives A Letter from Our Dean I am pleased to share FSU Libraries’ Strategic Plan, including our Mission, Vision, Professional Values, Goals, and Initiatives. The Libraries are aligned with the FSU Strategic Plan, and we have designed a website so that anyone can access current information on our progress. We are committed to the students, faculty, and staff of FSU in their research, teaching, and service endeavors. Thanks to the Strategic Planning Team members under the leadership of Susannah Miller, the Associate Dean for Administration, for their thoughtful work on this process. We hope you will take time to review this website. Sincerely , Gale Etschmaier The Strategic Planning Team Susannah Miller (Chair) Jessica Barmon Adam Beauchamp Meagan Bonnell Dianna Bradley Louis Brooks Tiffanie Burt Rory Grennan Jeff Hipsher Renaine Julian Kirsten Kinsley Eric Love Christian Mills Leah Sherman Devin Soper Sandra Varry Mission The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University by providing organized access to quality information in all formats, promoting information literacy, preserving information and engaging in collaborative partnerships to disseminate ideas to advance intellectual discovery. Vision As a center of intellectual community, FSU Libraries inspire curiosity, discovery, and learning by providing equitable access to information, enhancing scholarship, promoting critical thinking, and fostering a culture of diversity and inclusion. Values Stewardship - We actively remove barriers, diversify our holdings, enhance access to our collections, spaces and services, and maintain and protect access to our unique physical and digital resources. We engage in strategic acquisitions practices, intentional collection development, and establish and nurture partnerships to increase access to shared collections. Integrity - We practice openness and transparency, and we hold each other accountable in our shared pursuit of professional excellence. Intellectual Freedom - Intellectual Freedom is essential for learning and participation in a democratic society. We promote free inquiry and exchange of ideas and protect the privacy and confidentiality of our intellectual community. Social Responsibility - We provide equitable access and opportunities to multiple communities by protecting our users and colleagues’ intellectual space, physical environment, and personhood. Learning & Innovation - We foster a culture that inspires critical and innovative thinking, intellectual risk taking, and the pursuit of lifelong education. Advocacy - We champion our professional values within our organizational culture. We promote our values and the advantages of FSU Libraries among our academic community. We encourage and promote professional advocacy among our faculty, staff and constituents. About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!