Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Department of Anthropology Menu About Us Contact Us Staff Alumni Information Form News Events Faculty Postdoctoral Scholars Temporary Lecturers Affiliated Faculty Undergraduate Success Stories Graduate Graduate Students Blair Coe Schweiger Stacy Edington Heather Habecker Allie Henderson Lizzy Kim Brooke Morris Tomasz Nowak Marcela Pfaff Nash Teddy Thum Areas of Study Human Biology and Evolution Forensic Science and Forensic Anthropology Health and Medicine World Cultures and Globalization Archaeology Human Ecology and Environment Facilities Field Schools Department of Anthropology Collectively, we study human diversity across time and space. As a discipline, Anthropology attempts to understand the human past, present, and future using tools and techniques from the sub-fields of sociocultural anthropology, biological anthropology, and archaeology. We aim to educate students to address real-world problems through a combination of classroom learning, seminars, and hands-on field and laboratory research opportunities. This can include, for example, examining fossil casts or modern human bones, studying at the zoo or in villages in developing countries, and digging for artifacts in the field or just facts in the library. About Us Apply Now Make a Gift Areas of Study Our faculty pursues research in DNA analysis, GIS, disease diagnostics and other biomarkers, ecological anthropology, forensic anthropology, fossil excavation, modern Mayan cultures, Global and One Health, metabolism and energetics, child growth and development, immunology, and both historic and prehistoric archaeology. Human Biology and Evolution Forensic Science and Forensic Anthropology Health and Medicine World Cultures and Globalization Archaeology Human Ecology and Environment Anthropology Field Work Research sites include Central and Latin America, the Caribbean, West, East, and South Africa, near Eastern Mediterranean, and Texas. All of these projects offer excellent opportunities for students to participate in primary research working alongside their professors. About Field Work Why should I study anthropology? You are human, what could be more rewarding than studying the origins and diversity of human biology and behavior? By studying Anthropology, you open the door to the opportunity to reflect on how and why different people and populations have developed similar and different characteristics in their biology and behaviors. We create problem-solvers with excellent critical thinking and written/oral communication skills that employers desire. In Anthropology, we utilize a comparative approach between people/populations and among different species to understand the forces that have shaped their ways of life. Interested in HEALTH? Anthropology is for you! Interested in the ENVIRONMENT? Anthropology is for you! Why Anthropology Matters News Anthropology Students Are Top Presenters at 2022 TAS Conference Mar. 2, 2022 Four students of Baylor Anthropology made the Department proud by earning distinctions at the 2022 Texas Academy of Science Conference in Houston, TX. Anthropology's 2021 Welcome Week Open House a Success Oct. 29, 2021 On Friday before start of Fall 2021 classes, Baylor Anthropology hosted a fun and exciting Open House for our incoming students. Check out information and pictures about this event! Baylor and Harvard Researchers Partner in Long-Term, Global Study of Human Flourishing Oct. 29, 2021 WACO, Texas (Oct. 29, 2021) – Social and biomedical scientists at Harvard University and Baylor University have joined forces to launch the $43.4 million, five-year “Global Flourishing Study” (GFS), the largest initiative of its kind to investigate the factors that influence human flourishing throughout the world. It also represents largest funded research project in the University’s history. Ranger Documentary with Mr. Jim Huggins and Dr. Lori Baker Oct. 29, 2021 What does a Ranger do after they retire? For Sergeant Jim Huggins, retirement meant he could start a second career and build a legacy in forensics. Join Jim and his partner, Dr. Lori E. Baker, as they describe how a dedication to higher learning helped create one of the Nation's premier forensic programs. (Run time 9 minutes 20 seconds) This video was made possible by the Texas Rangers Association Foundation. More News Anthropology Faculty The core faculty of the Department of Anthropology are from a variety of disciplinary backgrounds including: cultural, physical, applied, and forensic anthropology, archaeology, and forensic chemistry and biology. Research concentrations and specific projects are reflected in these backgrounds. Sara E. Alexander, PhD Professor and TIEEES Fellow Her current research centers on human responses to climate and other environmental changes. Lori E. Baker, PhD Professor of Anthropology & Vice Provost for Faculty Development and Diversity Her work focuses on the recovery, identification, and repatriation of deceased migrants found along the US/Mexico border. Katie M. Binetti, PhD Senior Lecturer & Undergraduate Program Director She is a paleoanthropologist broadly interested in the role past environments have played in molding our species into the diverse and complex organisms that we are today. Garrett W. Cook, PhD Professor He is a socio-cultural anthropologist and ethnographer, though I have also been trained in archaeology and have worked as a professional archaeologist and briefly as a museum director. Joseph V. Ferraro, PhD Associate Professor & Director of the Institute of Archaeology He is an anthropologist with broad interests in the evolution of human biology. Mark V. Flinn, PhD Professor Focusing on the nexus of stress and the family, he is a biomedical anthropologist who aims to understand how and why social relationships influence child health. Julie A. Hoggarth, PhD Associate Professor Her research applies an interdisciplinary approach that integrates history, demography, archaeology, and climate research. James R. Huggins, MFS Senior Lecturer He is a retired Texas Ranger interested in the identification and repatriation of undocumented border crossers in South Texas. Michael P. Muehlenbein, PhD, MsPH Professor, Chair, & Graduate Program Director His work ranges from evolutionary medicine and ecological immunology (including hormone-mediated immunity) to global/One health and travel medicine (specifically preventing emerging infectious diseases from wild primates). Austin W. Reynolds, PhD Assistant Professor His work focuses on population genetics, computational genomics, ancient DNA, immunogenetics, bioinformatics, and medical genetics. Samuel S. Urlacher, PhD Assistant Professor His work focuses on human evolutionary biology, aging, and health. He is particularly interested in how child nutrition and other early life experiences shape lifetime metabolic health. Timothy L. Campbell, PhD Temporary Lecturer Marion M. Coe, PhD Temporary Lecturer Joshua L. Keene, PhD Temporary Lecturer Jeffrey Gassen, PhD Postdoctoral Scholar His research involves utilizing theoretical insights from the evolutionary sciences and methodology from psychology, neuroscience, endocrinology, immunology, behavioral ecology, and related fields, to untangle complex, often bidirectional relationships between human biology and behavior. Cathryn M. Townsend, PhD Postdoctoral Scholar Her current research centers on egalitarian political systems, and the relationship between cooperation and adversity. Colleen M. Zori, PhD Affiliated Faculty Baylor Interdisciplinary Core State of The Art Facilities In addition to extensive teaching laboratories that house a range of specimens and equipment, the Department has a number of research facilities, including our own extensive core facility for genomic and biomarker analyses, archaeology and zooarchaeology labs, an anatomy laboratory featuring a plastinated human cadaver, and areas for conducting forensic experiments. About Our Facilities Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Department of Anthropology Twitter Instagram Facebook Department of Anthropology One Bear Place #97173 Waco, TX 76798 254.710.4084 Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Contact Us Staff Alumni Information Form News Events Faculty Postdoctoral Scholars Temporary Lecturers Affiliated Faculty Undergraduate Success Stories Graduate Graduate Students Blair Coe Schweiger Stacy Edington Heather Habecker Allie Henderson Lizzy Kim Brooke Morris Tomasz Nowak Marcela Pfaff Nash Teddy Thum Areas of Study Human Biology and Evolution Forensic Science and Forensic Anthropology Health and Medicine World Cultures and Globalization Archaeology Human Ecology and Environment Facilities Field Schools