Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Office of Equal Opportunity Menu Toggle Search Report a Concern Main navigation About Meet the Staff FAQ How Can We Help Services We Offer Disability Accommodations Religious Accommodation Reporting a Concern Training, Learning, and Development Resources and Policies Resources & Policies Info Affirmative Action Annual Reports Discrimination & Harassment Equal Opportunity Council InclusAbility Recruitment Resources Diversity Recruitment and Retention Toolkit Title IX Title IX Info Consent is BAE Reporting Sexual Assault Title IX Resources Title IX General Resource Guide Title IX Respondent's Resource Guide OEO Bulletin: News & Articles Forms The Office of Equal Opportunity serves ISU faculty, staff, and students in ensuring equal access to employment and educational opportunities. The Office advances diversity, equity, inclusion, and fairness. We do this through outreach, education, training, and complaint resolution, as well as through the advancement of ISU’s anti-discrimination/ harassment and affirmative action policies. We provide resources for individuals who have experienced discrimination or harassment based on identity and protected class, and for those who have experienced power-based interpersonal violence. The Office provides individuals a safe environment for consultation and advice prior to choosing any particular next steps in their situation. Interactions with The Office of Equal Opportunity are low-risk and private. View Iowa State University’s Non-Discrimination Statement Vision To ensure equal access to employment and educational opportunities in support of the university's commitment to equal opportunity, affirmative action, and diversity. Mission Iowa State University's Office of Equal Opportunity is committed to promoting a working and learning environment free of discrimination or harassment by complying with all federal, state and local laws pertaining to anti-discrimination, the American with Disabilities Act, and Title IX. To that end, we work toward a campus climate that is supportive of equity through complaint resolution, advice, education, outreach, and intervention. Iowa State University Office of Equal Opportunity Contact Office of Equal Opportunity 515 Morrill Road 3410 Beardshear Hall Ames, IA 50011 eooffice@iastate.edu 515-294-7612 phone 515-294-2202 fax Office Hours Monday-Friday 8am-5pm Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...