Skip to Content Menu Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Close Main menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Secondary Menu Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Mobile menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Staff CU Boulder Today Campus leadership announces operating model updates Provost Russell Moore and Chief Operating Officer Patrick O’Rourke announced a number of updates to the campus operating model, which include work modality standards, academic instruction guidance, COVID-19-related requirements and other topics. Read more New budget model approved by leadership with implementation to begin July 1 Executive sponsors have approved a new budget model that includes support for student retention; diversity, equity and inclusion goals; and more. Read more Join CU Night at the Rockies Aug. 12 Cheer on the Rockies as they take on the Arizona Diamondbacks. In addition to a seat at Coors Field, your ticket includes a collector’s T-shirt and a $2 donation to student scholarships. Before the game, join for a free pre-game reception at the alumni-owned Blake Street Tavern for appetizers, giveaways and more. Read more Join the Staff Council ice cream social and info fair May 24 Come join your Boulder Campus Staff Council and other members of the community for a free ice cream bar. Stop by the Staff Council tent, where there will be more giveaways and prizes and visit with other campus departments dedicated to serving employees. Read more Photos: SRS celebrates employees with appreciation event Strategic Resources and Support employees connected this week at The Connection. Celebrating the team's strength, resilience and dedication, colleagues and leadership enjoyed bowling, billiards, video games and more. Read more Shakespeare festival draws near with themes of love, friendship and folly In case you missed it, the Colorado Shakespeare Festival will be back with an in-person season June 5–Aug. 7. Peruse the lineup, including “The Two Gentlemen of Verona,” “All’s Well That Ends Well” and “Coriolanus,” as well as two non-Shakespeare works: “The Book of Will” and “The Alchemist.” Read more Read more at CU Boulder Today Can't find what you're looking for? The Buff Info Team can help answer questions on a variety of topics related to CU Boulder and connect you with the right resources. Live Chat 303-492-INFO (4636) Send Us a Question Staff Resources Human Resources The central service that provides talent acquisition, onboarding, training and staff development for the Boulder campus. Staff Council This governance body ensures staff have an opportunity to be involved and informed of the campus priorities and direction. MyCUInfo A central portal for timesheets, management tools, campus resources, travel reporting and training. Employee Services The CU system office that administers employee payroll, benefits services, training and more. MyCUInfo Office 365 Campus VPN Google Collaboration Tools Email Lists Canvas OIT Services Have a question or comment? CU Boulder Strategic Priorities Chancellor's Strategic Plan View the CU Boulder vision to be a leader in addressing the humanitarian, social and technological challenges of the 21st century. Chancellor's Leadership Organization Access organizational descriptions, resources and news via the websites of campus executive leadership members. Office of the Senior Vice Chancellor Browse info on the team that serves the institution through collective leadership and broad campus views to manage shared resources. Strategic Initiatives Converging to build an environment of constant innovation and resource alignment that will accelerate our positive impact on the world. Calendars Workshops/Trainings Campus Events Academic Calendar Apply for Admission Visit Campus Support CU Boulder Get Help Safety & Health Services Campus Communications Emergency Alert System New Student & Family Programs Getting Around Campus Map Campus Events Parking & Transportation Visit Information Information for Faculty & Staff Families Journalists Initiatives Business & Industry Collaborations Diversity & Community Engagement Free Speech Innovation & Entrepreneurship International Students Public & Outreach Programs Sustainability Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Pinterest University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Contact Us • Privacy • Legal & Trademarks Accessibility • Student Consumer Information • Policies • CU Boulder Jobs Download the Clery Act Annual Security & Fire safety report, or request a paper copy from the CU Boulder Police Department. Return to the top of the page