Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Need help making a gift? Call 866-419-6768 Iowa State Logo Give Now Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Search Content: Home News and Stories COVID-19 FAQs FAQs and updates from Iowa State University Foundation on the Coronavirus (COVID-19) The ISU Foundation is working closely with university leadership to coordinate planning during this challenging time. At the foundation, our mission to advance the university through donor support will continue to be important as we all navigate this unique situation. As the COVID-19 outbreak continues, the university’s – and the foundation’s – highest priority is ensuring the health and safety of all the members of our Cyclone family, including students, faculty, staff, donors, alumni and friends. During this time, the ISU Foundation is open for business; our team will continue to serve our donors and the university, with staff returning to the workplace in a phased process. What does this mean? You can continue to reach our team members via their office phone numbers and email; we continue to limit visitors to the office at this time. For general questions, you can call 515.294.4607 or toll free 1.866.419.6768 or email questions@foundation.iastate.edu. We will continue to process gifts to Iowa State. FAQs How can I stay up to date on news about Iowa State and its response to the global Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic? The university website has a dedicated page with all the latest information for students, parents, employees and others related to COVID-19. How does the situation affect my scholarship, professorship or excellence fund? Students, faculty and staff recipients continue to benefit from the funds they’ve been awarded. Your support is especially appreciated during these uncertain times. Is there anything I can do to help? Thank you for being such a great support to Iowa State and the foundation. Many of you have asked how you can help, and we’ve launched #CycloneStrong, an emergency relief fund supporting students, faculty, staff and programs that are adversely affected by unforeseen circumstances – including the crisis we are experiencing now with the COVID-19 pandemic. Please visit this page to learn more or make a gift. Home Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are Careers Iowa State Highlights Reasons to say "THANK YOU" $1,542,356,968 Since the start of the Forever True, For Iowa State campaign, donors like you helped us exceed our historic $1.5 billion goal! “Scholarship support enhances my time at Iowa State and allows me to see the world while also gaining an amazing education.” - Margaret Leligdon, Junior, Civil Engineering Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are 2505 University Boulevard, P.O. Box 2230, Ames, Iowa 50010-2230, 866.419.6768. Copyright ©2016, Iowa State University Foundation. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Back to Top