Skip to main content Visit Visitor Information Trails Exhibitions The Landmark Store About About the Landmark Context Newsletter Staff/Contact Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Learning Experiences Research Current Research Field Research Program Calendar of Events Previous Next Welcome For thousands of years, across hundreds of generations, people have come to Lubbock Lake. Hunter-gatherers, from Clovis to Protohistoric peoples, the Apache and Comanche nations, and the founding of a modern city are each a part of the history of this National Historic Landmark that is one of the premier archaeological and natural history sites in North America. In 2021, the Landmark celebrates 85 years of discovery that began with the accidental unearthing of a Folsom point in 1936 and continues to the present day. A unit of the Museum of Texas Tech University, the Lubbock Lake Landmark is an archaeological and natural history preserve at the northern edge of the city of Lubbock, Texas. The Landmark contains evidence of almost 12,000 years of occupation by ancient peoples on the Southern High Plains. The Landmark welcomes visitors of all ages year round. The Landmark is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and is a designated National Historic and State Archeological Landmark. Hours Open Tuesday through Saturday, 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Sundays 1 p.m. - 5 p.m. Closed Mondays Admission The Lubbock Lake Landmark is free to the public. Contact Us 806 742-1116 lubbock.lake@ttu.edu Accessibility The Landmark is committed to providing all its visitors with enriching experiences. The Robert A. Nash Interpretive Center is fully wheelchair accessible with a ramp leading from the parking lot. As a 336-acre archaeological and natural history preserve, wheelchair accessibility outdoors varies. Please reference our trails page for specifics on the outdoor portion of the facilities, or contact us at 806 742-1116 with any questions. Location 2401 Landmark Drive Lubbock, Texas Just minutes from the main campus of Texas Tech University, the Landmark is just north of North Loop 289 and Clovis Highway (US 84). We are directly west of the Berl Huffman Athletic Complex. Public parking is free. News Keep up with the latest events and programs, on our complete Calendar of Events In 2022, the Landmark celebrates 86 years of discovery that began with the accidental discovery of a Folsom point in 1936. By 1939, the West Texas Museum (now the Museum of Texas Tech University) had secured funding from the Works Progress Administration for the first excavation under the direction of Joe Ben Wheat. × Despite delays and some shortages, the Landmark Store is fully stocked! Visit us and see some of your returning favorites as well as some new, interesting selections for children, youth and adults.! × 2401 Landmark Drive Lubbock, Texas 79415 Copyright © 2018 · Lubbock Lake Landmark 806 742-1116 lubbock.lake@ttu.edu Follow us: