Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Counseling Center About Welcome Staff Our Vision and Mission Services and Scheduling Counseling Services Scheduling an Appointment Step-Care Model Confidentiality Contact Us FAQ's Get Help Now Students in Crisis VP & Dean of Students Referral Form Referral Services Programs & Initiatives Collegiate Recovery Program Tech Ends Suicide QPR Training Diversity and Inclusion Let's Talk Peer Coaching Satellite Counselors Welltrack Wellness & Stress Management Series Outreach Outreach Presentations Wellness & Stress Management Series Resources Community-Specific Resources AAPI Student Resources Black and African American Students Indigenous Students International Students LGBTQIA Students Student Veterans Additional Resources Dealing with Loss Talking to Faculty About Grief Family & Friends Recommended Readings Family & Friends FAQ Faculty & Staff Distressed Students Guide Teaching International Students Faculty and Staff FAQ Faculty/Staff Guide to Supporting Loss Emotional Support Animals Training Training Welcome Post-Doctoral Fellowship Doctoral Internship Practicum Program Training Philosophy Diversity Statement Contact Us Donate Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Page Get Help Now! Students experiencing a crisis that requires immediate attention may speak with a counselor at any time 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. During regular business hours (Monday-Friday 8:00AM - 5:00PM), established Counseling Center clients may call 404-894-2575. Students who are not actively in counseling may call CARE at 404-894-3498. After business hours, please call either 404-894-2575 or 404-894-3498 and select the option to speak to the after-hours counselor. Students who are experiencing an immediate life-threatening emergency on campus, call the Georgia Tech Campus Police at 404-894-2500. If off campus, please immediately call 911. Additional Emergency Resources: Campus Police: 404-894-2500 Georgia Crisis and Access Line: 1-800-715-4225 Office of the Vice President and Dean of Students: 404-894-6367 Trevor Lifeline: 866-488-7386 Victim-Survivor Advocate: 404-894-9000 JED Foundation ULifeline 1-800-273-8255 | jedfoundation.org Crisis Chat Line CrisisChat.org Thrive@GT Wellness Hub gtwellnesshub.com National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255) GA COVID-19 Emotional Support 866-399-8938 Additional Resources Self-Help Resources Welltrack App Don't Bottle It Up - We Can Help! GTCC Statement on Racial Injustice, Political Change, and the Global Pandemic The Counseling Center extends our empathy and support to all that are affected by recent distressing events. Threatening and violent acts, the contentious political environment, racial injustice, and the unremitting stresses of a global pandemic are deeply disturbing. We all share in the responsibility to speak out against hatred and racism and to speak for justice. Moreover, we understand the impact of social disconnection, and increased morbidity and mortality caused by the global pandemic. The Counseling Center recognizes that both the singular and cumulative effect on our students, especially BIPOC populations, can be directly and indirectly emotionally impactful and possibly traumatizing. The Counseling Center continues to stand with our students against racial injustice and foster a space of hope and healing as we work through these issues together. Managing stress related to political change (apa.org) We also encourage you to connect with your campus community and student cultural organizations for support: Organizations - Georgia Institute of Technology (campuslabs.com) Get Help Now Students experiencing a crisis that requires immediate attention may speak with a counselor at any time 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Learn More Services Learn more about the many different services the Counseling Center offers Georgia Tech students. Learn More GT CARE The Center for Assessment, Referral & Education (CARE) is the primary resource for mental health support at Georgia Tech. Students seeking assistance from the Counseling Center need to visit CARE first for a primary assessment and referral to mental health and well-being resources. Learn More Ending Suicide Tech Ends Suicide Together is a caring initiative based on a plan to enlist all community members in a culture of working together to end suicide at Tech. More Information Peer Coaching The Peer Coaching Program (PCP) was developed by the Counseling Center to offer an innovative way for Tech students to access a unique type of support to facilitate academic and personal success. More Information Collegiate Recovery The Georgia Tech Collegiate Recovery Program provides support and a safe environment to help students achieve growth and success in their recovery and academic journey. More Information Let's Talk A program that provides easy access to informal confidential consultations with Georgia Tech counselors where counselors hold walk-in hours at various sites across campus throughout the week. More Information Satellite Counseling Satellite locations improve accessibility for students by providing counseling in places where students spend most of their time. Placing a counselor in an academic department helps to destigmatize mental health and may serve those who might hesitate to go to our central location for counseling. Learn More The information contained throughout these pages is not intended to substitute for actual counseling or other psychological services. To connect with a counselor, please refer to the other pages on this site for more information about our services. Self-help resources and external links may provide useful information about topics relevant to counseling and mental health, their listing here, however, does not indicate endorsement by the Counseling Center. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login