Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Information Technology Services Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Get Help IT Portal System Status News Newsroom Email Newsletter Resources For Students For Employees Computer Requirement MFA Outdoor Wi-Fi Remote Work Projects Adobe Acrobat Sign Azure Server Migration Campus Email Storage@ISU WorkCyte Website Teams Digital Accessibility Research Security About About ITS Staff Directory Employment Our Culture Strategic Plan Annual Report Technology Resources for Employees Information Technology Services is here to power your career with fast, reliable internet, modern software and apps and professional technical support. The Get Started section is filled with tasks and information primarily for new employees that should be reviewed shortly after joining Iowa State. Items in the Apps and Tools section will help you get your work done effectively. Lastly, the Additional Resources section contains even more technology available to help support your work. Get Started Start here to get your essential technology set up and secured. Your Net-ID Your Network Identification, or Net-ID, is the group of characters before the "@" sign of your Iowa State email address. It is different than your University ID, which is the nine-digit number listed on the front of your ISUCard. Your Net-ID is important because it serves as your unique identifier during your time at Iowa State. In fact, many Iowa State accounts to which employees have free access automatically recognize Iowa State Net-IDs as login credentials. Your Net-ID may have been created already, but if not, you can set it up now. CREATE YOUR NET-ID NOW Go to asw.iastate.edu Click on "Need to register for a Net-ID?" under the box labeled Register Enter the required information and click Next You can keep the suggested Net-ID or change it here if you'd prefer Set your password. Be sure to follow the password standards described on the page. Click Accept and then click Register NOTE: the Net-ID registration may take a few minutes to process. If you encounter a system error at this point, please contact the IT Solution Center. Okta: Your Application Dashboard Okta is the name of your Iowa State application dashboard and the easiest way to log into your most-used and favorite applications (4,700+ and counting). Okta is a “single sign-on” solution, meaning that once you sign into Okta, you can access other Iowa State applications (like your email or Workday) with just one click, like using a master key. Logging into accounts this way is much more secure than saving login information in your internet browser. Plus, you only have to remember one password rather than typing in your login credentials for each website. Optional Step Learn how to add more applications and organize your dashboard with sections. Workday Workday is Iowa State’s cloud-based software for performing human resources, finance and payroll business processes. Iowa State’s implementation of Workday is overseen by the university’s WorkCyte program that exists to promote the modernization of enterprise systems and software. WorkCyte Phase I project activities involve continuous improvement efforts directed at the Workday HCM, Finance, Payroll and Planning software. The WorkCyte Phase II project brings the Workday Student and Receivables software to Iowa State, beginning 2023. To get started in Workday, employees may find it helpful to consult the role-based resources available on the WorkCyte website. These resources include carefully-curated lists of how-to articles based on an employee’s role, such as faculty member, administrator, or researcher. Employees can also visit the Iowa State University Service Portal, available as an application on their Okta dashboard or by visiting iastate.service-now.com/isu. The ISU Service Portal contains helpful Workday information across the areas of Finance and Planning, HR and IT. Outlook Email and Calendaring Iowa State’s email platform for employees is Microsoft Outlook. Your Outlook account was automatically created after you received your Net-ID, and so your Iowa State email address is: [Your Net-ID]@iastate.edu. Your Outlook account can be accessed in your computer browser through the Okta dashboard and added to an email app on your phone, tablet or computer. As an employee, all communication from Iowa State will go to your Iowa State Outlook (not a previously-used email account), which can include correspondence from human resources, the president’s office, ITS and, of course, your supervisor. Microsoft Outlook also offers a robust calendaring system, perfect for keeping track of meetings, appointments and events. Since all faculty and staff use Outlook, it's possible to request appointments through Outlook. You can also share your calendar with your supervisor, colleagues, employees you supervise and others. Want to learn more about how Outlook works? Check out these resources from Microsoft. Add your Outlook account to a mail app or smart device Getting Started with Outlook web app Create tasks and a to-do list Share an Outlook calendar with other people How to search and filter email How to clean up your inbox How to set email categories and reminders How to organize email with folders How to add a contact AccessPlus AccessPlus is a secure and confidential campus information system used for doing official university business. It primarily serves as a student information system, allowing students to register for classes, pay their university bill and more. Your use of AccessPlus will vary depending on your job duties. At the very least, you can use AccessPlus to complete the following tasks: Sign up for a Staff Charge Plan for dining on campus Add funds to your CyCash account to make small purchases at vending machines, select campus cafes and more Renew parking permits View and pay your university bill for any campus charges Set up ISU Alert to be notified of campus emergencies You can log into your AccessPlus account through your Okta dashboard. Phone Service Communicating by phone is an option for Iowa State staff and service may already be set up for your use. Telephone services are coordinated by Information Technology Services and billed to your assigned department. To learn more about telephones and voice services, go to the IT Portal. Three telephone services are available to staff: Desk (physical) phone Software-based phone Cell phone Desk Phone Iowa State uses the Cisco 8800 Series for desk phones. To order a desk phone, submit a request. Refer to these instructions to get started using your desk phone. Softphone A softphone uses computer software to make calls. A headset is often used to provide better sound quality. Learn more and request a softphone by completing this form. Cell Phone Depending on your position and work responsibilities, a cell phone may be provided. Learn more about contracted cellular services. Additional Phone Services Other phone services are also available, including conference phones and cordless phones. Learn more about phone services in the IT Portal. Cybersecurity Cybersecurity is essential to the mission of Iowa State University and is a university-wide responsibility. The dedicated IT Security team helps safeguard the information, systems and network used by the Cyclone community. Follow the tips below for staying safe online. We encourage you to visit the IT Security webpage for more information. IT Security Cybersecurity Do's Choose strong passwords for your accounts Avoid reusing passwords when possible Use a password manager like Passwordstate, available for free for employees in your Okta dashboard Secure your devices Set a screen lock on your computer and other devices Lock your computer and devices when away Install official software updates when made available Forward suspected phishing emails to security@iastate.edu Cybersecurity Don'ts Use free software downloaded from untrusted sites. It's often bundled with "Adware." Fall for email phishing attacks asking for gift cards, money or personal information. More information below. Approve fake software updates that lure you into installing malware. These always appear in a browser window. Identify and Report Phishing Attempts One of the most prevalent cybersecurity issues for Iowa State employees is phishing attacks. Phishing is a social engineering technique where an attacker impersonates someone you trust to get you to give them something. That could be money, personal information, control over your computer, or passwords that then give them access to any of these. Attackers may masquerade as directors, VPs, department chairs, and even Iowa State University's president. How to spot a phishing message Don't trust the display name and always look at the email address. Be sure it's a trusted email address, such as those ending with @iastate.edu. Check for odd spelling and grammatical mistakes. Look for a suspicious call-to-action in the message body. Beware of urgent or threatening language in the subject line or message. Watch for suspicious attachments. When clicking links, be mindful of what happens next and to where you're taken. Report phishing messages Phishing emails can be reported to IT Security directly in Outlook. View the support article in the IT Portal for how to report in your version of Outlook. You can also forward suspicious messages to security@iastate.edu. Tech Support If you run into technology problems, you have multiple ways of seeking assistance: Self-service through the IT Portal Using the knowledge base in the IT Portal allows you to easily search the issue you are having to find possible solutions. For example, you can find instructions for how to join a Webex videoconference, add CyCash to your account, and set up email forwarding. You can access the IT Portal by clicking the "ISU Portal" tile on your Okta dashboard and then select Information Technology from the dropdown menu in the upper left corner. Assistance from the IT Solution Center The IT Solution Center, located on the first floor of Parks Library, is your on-campus resource for in-person technology assistance. The IT Solution Center is open seven days a week, except for university holidays. Visit the Get Help page for more information about hours of operation and other support options. You can request help from the IT Solution Center though the Get Help option in the IT Portal. You can also contact the IT Solution Center by calling 515-294-4000 or emailing solution@iastate.edu. Local IT and CorePlus Many campus departments and offices have a team of dedicated IT professionals to support the specific needs of the department. For offices that don't have a dedicated IT team, ITS supports these campus customers through our CorePlus program. Check with your supervisor to determine if your department has a dedicated IT team or if you're a CorePlus customer. Some local IT teams have dedicated websites, which can be viewed on the ITS College and Unit IT Support web page. Repairing Personal Devices through TechCyte TechCyte, located in the ISU Book Store, has licensed and trained technicians who can service both Dell and Apple computers in their on-campus service center. View contact information, service rates and schedule an appointment on the ISU Book Store website. For ISU-owned devices that are in need of repair, be sure to check with your local IT team or CorePlus coordinator for the proper procedure. Apps and Tools Learn about all the essential software you have access to as an Iowa State employee to complete your work. Tools for Instructors Center for Excellence in Learning and Teaching CELT provides resources for instructors, faculty, staff, graduate students, and postdocs interested in teaching. They offer face-to-face workshops, longer-term teaching and learning circles on selected topics, and facilitation of teaching and learning communities. They have also developed online resources to support the teaching technology available at Iowa State. Check out CELT's website for all their resources. Canvas Canvas is the learning management system at Iowa State. Many different software tools integrate with Canvas, including Webex, StudyMate and Studio. Canvas can be accessed in your Okta dashboard. Check out CELT's Canvas at ISU page for useful tools like start/end of semester checklists, how to navigate Canvas and how to use the mobile app. Top Hat The Top Hat learning platform is an interactive, cloud-based teaching platform that leverages student’s mobile devices to increase in-class engagement and get real-time feedback. Instructors can use Top Hat for attendance tracking, securely adminstering exams and quizzes directly on students' devices and engaging students with interactive content in class. CELT has put together more information on a dedicated Top Hat web page. Tech Lending University Library manages Tech Lending, a service for enrolled students to borrow various technology equipment for free. Available equipment includes DSLR cameras, Apple and Dell laptops, graphing calculators, iPads, projectors, audio equipment and more. This resource can help support class assignments and support student organizations. Instructors are encouraged to contact library staff to ensure there is enough equipment for your purpose. Microsoft Office 365 All Iowa State employees have access to Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint and other Microsoft Office 365 products at no additional cost. The Microsoft Office 365 set of products can be downloaded to your device or used as a web application. The downloadable Office 365 applications run on your computer (no internet connection necessary), while the online app runs in the cloud and is accessed by using your web browser. Popular Microsoft Office 365 applications available to Iowa State employees include Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneDrive, OneNote and Teams. Action Items Download the desktop applications from Software Center (Windows) or Self Service (Mac) Explore the web applications (Okta log in required) File Storage There are three main file storage options for employees: CyBox, Microsoft OneDrive and Google Drive. All of these storage applications are cloud-based and accessible through your Okta dashbashboard. Employees should practice good file management and adhere to these best practices: Remove personal or non-work/class related items from university storage devices. Delete obsolete, duplicate, or out-of-date files. Implement a data management plan. CyBox is Iowa State’s branded application of Box. This preferred file storage application offers robust collaboration features, version history and file sharing options. Downloading Box Drive to your computer allows you to edit files locally on your computer and sync automatically. With CyBox, you can open and edit files in desktop or web applications. Tech tip: if editing in a desktop application at the same time as others, you may need to consider version control or use the lock file option. OneDrive is Microsoft’s application for file storage. OneDrive also offers collaboration features, activity history, and the ability to sync a file library to your device’s desktop. With OneDrive, files are primarily edited in the web versions of Microsoft apps, like PowerPoint and Word online. Multiple collaborators can edit at the same time, with little worry for version control. OneDrive also integrates with other Microsoft tools, like Microsoft Teams. Drive is Google’s storage application. Drive offers version history (available through the File menu) and the ability to share files. With Drive, multiple collaborators can simultaneously edit files online. Note: Google will be enforcing contract changes that limit the amount of file storage available to Iowa State users. More information is available on the Storage@ISU project web page. Videoconferencing Information Technology Services recommends two videoconferencing options for Iowa State employees: Microsoft Teams and Cisco Webex. Both applications allow participants to record meetings, share your screen, view meeting participants, type comments or questions in a chat, raise hands and use breakout rooms. Both applications integrate with Microsoft Outlook to make scheduling meetings an easy task. Microsoft Teams supports videoconferencing for virtual meetings. With Teams, meeting hosts can enable live captions as well as transcripts. Users are notified via Teams chat when their recorded meeting is available in the OneDrive web app shortly after the meeting concludes. Learn how to access Teams in the IT Portal. Cisco Webex supports videoconferencing for virtual meetings as well as webinar-type events with panelists. With Webex, meeting hosts can enable transcripts and offer interactive elements like a poll. Users are notified by email when their recorded meeting is available in the Webex web app shortly after the meeting concludes. Learn how to access Webex in the IT Portal. Zoom Basic is also available for Iowa State employees. A Zoom Pro license can be requested through the IT Portal. Grammarly Grammarly is a digital writing support tool that provides powerful grammar, spelling and plagiarism checking. It integrates conveniently into many of the places where you do your writing, such as web browsers, allowing you to use it in Canvas, Google Docs, Office 365 and Outlook. All employees have free access to the premium version of Grammarly through your Okta dashboard. Grammarly also offers a support knowledge base to help you learn how to get the most out of its premium features. Grammarly Tips & Tutorials Qualtrics Qualtrics is a survey tool available to Iowa State faculty, staff and students at no additional cost. Qualtrics offers collaboration features, so you can work with other team members to create surveys and analyze results. Survey question types include text entry, multiple choice, matrix table, slider, rank order and more. You can use survey “logic” to customize questions based on a respondent’s previous answers. When you’re ready to distribute a survey, choose from distribution options like email, SMS text message, QR code, anonymous link, or an appropriate social media channel. After responses have been received, leverage Qualtric's reporting features to filter and analyze data. Qualtrics is available as an application on your Okta dashboard. Qualtrics Support LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning is a leading online learning platform that helps anyone learn business, software, technology and creative skills. Your Net-ID gives you free access to the entire LinkedIn Learning video library of engaging, top-quality courses taught by recognized industry experts. Note: A LinkedIn profile is required to access Learning content. You can set up a free account using any personal email address. We recommend you don't use your Iowa State email address to create a LinkedIn account because you won't have access to your Iowa State email address if you leave the university. You can access LinkedIn Learning through your Okta dashboard. MyState App The MyState app, created by student engineers and maintained by student developers, has many features useful for all employees on campus. On the app, you can: Check CyRide bus routes, schedules and current bus locations View dining center, café and C-store hours and menus Find information about campus events View the campus map with the ability to pin things such as buildings, dining centers, outdoor Wi-Fi and more Stream 88.5 KURE, the student-run alternative music radio station in Ames Browse the library catalog and view outstanding loans, fees and requests View pictures from around campus with Photostream, submitted to photostream.iastate.edu And more Download the app for free on your Android or iOS device by selecting the correct button (or search "MyState" in the Play or App Store). Iowa State employees can also be beta testers for the MyState app, providing valuable feedback on app updates before they're released. Visit MyState.iastate.edu to learn more. Additional Resources Learn how to utilize other technologies available on campus. Get Connected to the Internet Campus Internet and NetReg Iowa State University has two primary internet networks: eduroam (pronounced ed-u-roam) and IASTATE. You’ll connect to these networks differently depending on your device and if you’re using Wi-Fi (wireless) or ethernet (wired). When using Wi-Fi, you should always attempt to connect to eduroam first, regardless of your device. Just sign on with your full Iowa State email address (Net-ID@iastate.edu) and password. More than 10,000 eduroam hotspots are available at universities, research centers and education institutions in more than 100 territories around the world. You can use your Iowa State login information when visiting other institutions with an eduroam network to connect quickly and securely. View eduroam locations Some devices will require to be registed in order to connect to the network properly, called Network Registration or NetReg. Below is a handy chart showing when NetReg is required for each device type and connection type (wireless vs wired). Please note: there are two different NetReg processes depending of your device. To complete the NetReg process for your device, click the button. NetReg Your Device Now When to NetReg Network Name & Type Phones & Tablets Laptops Desktops Game Consoles Smart TVs & Speakers Printers Eduroam (wireless) Preferred, no NetReg Preferred, no NetReg Preferred, no NetReg Attempt to connect first Attempt to connect first Not allowed on the network; conect to computer or use PaperCut IASTATE (wireless) NetReg through ASW NetReg through ASW NetReg through ASW NetReg through IT Portal NetReg through IT Portal Ethernet (wired) N/A NetReg through ASW NetReg through ASW NetReg through IT Portal NetReg through IT Portal Outdoor Wi-Fi Along with internet access in all campus buildings, Iowa State also offers Wi-Fi across 15+ acres of green space. You can enjoy Iowa State’s beautiful campus while also getting some work done. View a map of outdoor Wi-Fi locations here or in the MyState app under Map > Search > Categories > Outdoor Wireless. Virtual Private Network (VPN) Iowa State’s virtual private network provides access to campus network services from any computer, on or off campus. VPN enables users to log into the Iowa State network safely and securely. Examples of services that require use of the VPN include remote desktop, ADIN and MyFiles. VPN is typically not required when connecting to services through Okta. For example, applications like Outlook, Webex, Office 365, CyBox, Workday and Jira can all be accessed through web applications in Okta without the use of Iowa State's VPN. To ensure you don't experience unexpected access issues, we encourage you to reach out to your local IT support to determine if VPN access is required for your specific application(s). Learn how to install and connect to the VPN. Internet Performance Our wireless networks serve thousands of students, faculty and staff each day, connecting over 200,000 devices every month. With that many devices on the network, it’s important to understand how internet performance can be affected. This graphic shows 5 basic factors that will affect performance while on campus. The number of devices in an area The way devices are designed to interact The amount of interference, caused by things like microwaves, Bluetooth connections, concrete walls and more A person’s individual device and software Infrastructure quality, or the number and placement of wireless access points. Wireless access points are pieces of equipment discreetly placed all across campus that allow you to connect to Wi-Fi. Additional Services If your department needs additional wired internet options, review this page on wired data services in the IT Portal. You can request services right in the IT Portal. If you don't see the 'Request Now!' section on the right side, be sure you're logged in. Printing Printing guidelines for employees may differ among units or departments. Employees printing from an ISU-owned device to an office printer should contact their local IT for connection set-up. If your area does not have local IT, you are likely supported by ITS CorePlus. Please contact your CorePlus coordinator or the ITS Endpoint Technologies team (via the IT Solution Center) for assistance in setting up in-office printing. Digital Accessibility Creating barrier-free access to hardware and software falls under the broad area of digital accessibility. Digital accessibility is not only the production of course materials, websites and communications in an accessbile manner, it is a mindset and related directly to the student experience. Fully experiencing content and materials using assistive technology is essential in supporting this mindset. Learn more on the Digital Accessiblity website. Go to the CELT website to view resources for how to create accessible course content. Digital Accessibility Lab The Digital Accessibility Lab is a research lab on campus in Durham Center 116 studying the methods of Inclusive Design and disability related to the design and use of digital products. The lab has many different assistive technologies. Barrier-free computing devices Adjustable height desks and easy-to-move seating Screen magnifiers Screen-reading software Text-to-speech software VR headsets Eye-tracking devices Wearable keyboards Switch controls Gaming hardware and software Siteimprove When all users can equally access the information and functionality of a website or any type of digital content, these are considered accessible. Many websites are difficult or impossible to use for some people because the website presents barriers to universal access. This is often a result of creating content or developing websites without taking all users into consideration. Siteimprove is a single-platform, cloud-based accessibility tool to aid Iowa State’s web content editors, designers and developers meet compliance with various digital accessibility laws and policies for ISU-owned websites. Siteimprove is available to each Iowa State University owned website and will connect with Drupal and WordPress content management systems. Learn more about Siteimprove and how to use it for your website. Other Services from ITS Mass Email Campaigns Campus departments, offices and student organizations can create email campaigns to be sent to the campus community. Customers can choose between four different layout templates, add multiple links and images and can receive an analytics report to see how well the email campaign performed. Learn more about requesting a mass email campaign in the IT Portal. Student Innovation Center The Student Innovation Center is filled with state-of-the-art technologies to support student learning. There are also multiple programs geared toward instructors and it's even possible to teach in the center. Some of the resources you'll find in the Center: Media production suite, funded in part by ITS Metal and woodworking Composite material fabrication Dynamometer testing for engine torque and RPM Paint and finishes booth Digital modeling and visualization lab Demonstration kitchen for the College of Human Sciences Gaming lab for the Colleges of LAS and Design Instructor Resources Campus Map University Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources Need help? Contact the IT Solution Center Get Help Information Technology Services 271 Durham Center Ames, IA 50011 Submit Website Feedback Need tech support? IT Solution Center 192 Parks Library Ames, IA 50011 solution@iastate.edu 515-294-4000 phone Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information