Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Students You're one of NC State's emerging thinkers and doers. Delve into resources, services and tools designed to help you thrive here. Undergraduate students Graduate students Your Education Explore majors and minors, academic advising, tutoring, high-impact learning opportunities, undergraduate research and other educational resources. Your Community Find your home on campus among a variety of residential options and connect with your Pack through student organizations, arts programs and more. Your Future We offer career and leadership programs that help you figure out what you want to do, become a competitive applicant and succeed at whatever comes next. Your Money Browse financial aid and scholarship opportunities, estimated cost of attendance, tuition payment options and more information about paying for your degree. Your Well-Being Take care of your mental and physical health with our Counseling Center, Student Health Services, Wellness and Recreation programs and more. Your Support Get connected with services that help you get here — and stay on the right track — including Pack Essentials, the Student Emergency Fund and our food pantry. Essential Apps MyPack Portal Class Search ePACK Gmail WebAssign WolfWare Campus Services It’s our goal to help you have the best student experience possible. Discover some of the on-campus resources available to you. Academic Calendar Look up important dates and holidays for the upcoming academic year and beyond. Bookstores Source everything from textbooks and electronics to licensed Wolfpack apparel. Dining Find places to grab a bite on campus, see hours of operation and check out meal plan options. Financial Wellness Browse a collection of resources dedicated to creating financially healthy NC State students. Housing Learn more about residence halls, campus apartments, and Living and Learning Villages. Libraries Our campus libraries are your destinations for studying, collaboration and expanding your mind. Student Health Services See the health services you can access on campus, and schedule your own appointment. Transportation Scout out Wolfline routes, purchase a parking permit, download transit maps and more. Wellness and Recreation NC State students have full access to our state-of-the-art facilities, equipment and courses. Wolfpack One Card A One Card is your official NC State ID. See what it gets you — and obtain or replace yours. Upcoming Events All Events May 31 Tuesday12:15 PM Free Yoga Jun 03 Friday Drop/ Revision Deadline: Summer I 5-Week Session Jun 06 Monday3:00 PM International Tea Time Find Help on Campus Our Division of Academic and Student Affairs is home to a variety of resources to help you make it through any challenge — whether you’re navigating an immediate crisis or searching for long-term support. Connect with someone Academic Resources We’re here to help you think and do every step of the way. Find the academic resources you need to succeed. Admissions Thinking about joining the Pack? See what we look for, find upcoming dates and deadlines, and get tips for your application process. Make your way here New Student Programs If you’re an incoming first-year, transfer or international student, New Student Programs is here to guide your journey to a successful future. Start off strong Registration and Records Order your transcript, change your major (or add a new one), learn about nondegree studies, apply for graduation or readmission, and more. Learn more Student Services Center Scroll through our course catalog, register for classes, get help with degree planning, learn about your grades, browse financial resources and more. Here to help Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.