Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty & Staff Forms Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Students Enrollment Verification Grades OverviewGPA and Grading ScaleGrade ChangeFAQ Transcripts OverviewOfficialUnofficialLambuth UniversityFAQ Reverse Transfer FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA NotificationRelease of Student Education Record Student Right-to-Know Information Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM OverviewLate/Retroactive Withdrawal Self Service Guides Take Action View Calendars Order Transcripts View Notices Contact Us Home Registrar Students Errors and Problems Errors and Problems Below is a list of errors you might encounter when trying to register for classes. If you encounter an error not discussed here, of if you need further clarification, contact the Registrar's Office. Registration Errors Academic Standing Prohibits Registration Logout and contact the Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services. Alternate PIN Screen No entry is valid: you need to be advised and cleared to register. Contact your advisor/advising unit. Authorization Failure - Invalid Alternate PIN. No entry for Alternate PIN is valid. Contact your advisor/advising unit to be cleared to register. CLASS RESTRICTION You are trying to enroll in a course that is not appropriate for your student classification — Freshman, Sophomore, Junior, Senior. (For example, if you have Sophomore standing or higher, you cannot enroll in ACAD 1100.) You will not be able to register for this course unless you receive a permit. CLOSED SECTION All of the seats allotted for the section have been filled; you will not be able to register for this section unless you receive a permit. CO-REQUISITE ERROR You are attempting to add a course that requires one or more co-requisites, that is, another course or courses that must be taken along with the course you have entered. You need to add all required courses in one submission. DUPL CRSE WITH SEC... You have already added this course. If you wish to change sections, perform a drop-add in one submission. LEVEL RESTRICTION You are trying to take a course/section that is not appropriate for your level — Undergraduate, Graduate, or Law. LINK ERROR You have added only the lecture or lab section of a course that requires that both the lab and the lecture be taken together in the term. Add both sections in one submission. MAJOR RESTRICTION You have tried to enroll in a course that is restricted to a particular major or majors; you cannot register for this course without a permit. MAXIMUM HOURS EXCEEDED You cannot exceed the maximum course load for your level without receiving special permission. Refer to your Catalog for more information. No Term Available You will receive this error when you try to register, or add or drop classes, when registration for the term you have selected has been disabled. Term registration downtimes are announced in advance on the Registrar's "Notice!" page. When required, this downtime is usually scheduled overnight between 4:30pm on a Friday and 1:00am on Saturday and is done because required maintenance or software updates must be performed. PERMIT REQUIRED You may register for this section only if you have a permit. PREQ and TEST SCORE-ERROR The registration system has no record of your having taken this course's required prerequisite or having tested out of the prerequisite. Example, you want ENGL 1020 but you have neither passed ENGL 1010 (or its equivalent), nor tested out of ENGL 1010. REPEAT COUNT EXCEEDS... Some courses may be repeated for credit, but only for a limited number of times. You are attempting to add a course that you have already taken and passed for the limit. To take it again, you will have to be granted a permit. "SR" appears before classes listed in your "Look Up Classes" results SR = Student Restriction. "SR" rather than a registration check box may appear in your Search results if: You have not been admitted or readmitted for the term. See "You require re-admission prior to registration" below. You have a registration hold on your record. See Holds and Common Holds. You don't have a registration Time ticket. See "You have no registration time ticket" below. TIME CONFLICT WITH ... You are trying to register for two or more courses whose meeting times overlap. Adjust your schedule, or request a permit for minor time conflicts (ex., one class ends at 9:15 but another starts at 9:15). If you have registered for a Combo section, you are more likely to receive this error than someone who hasn't. Combo sections have two meeting patterns — a MW pattern and a TR pattern, and you must attend both meeting patterns. Because the TR pattern is listed below the MW pattern in "Look Up Classes," students often overlook the TR pattern. This can lead to the Time Conflict problem: another TR course you have registered for is likely in conflict with the Combo's TR pattern. TOO MANY REGISTRATION ATTEMPTS The registration system allows you 2000 attempts at adding or dropping classes per term. Once you exceed this maximum, you are "locked out" of that term's online registration. If you are locked out, go to the Registrar's Office, 003 Wilder Tower for assistance. You are only permitted to register for [11.999 or 8.999] hours due to outstanding immunization requirements. Please submit proof of MMR if full-time registration is desired. The University does not have a record of your Measles-Mumps-Rubella (MMR) immunization. Unless this is on file with Student Health Services, you will be restricted to a part-time course load. For more information, see Immunization: MMR. You have attempted to access a disabled page. You entered something in the SEARCH field in the top left-hand corner of the screen. This search field has been disabled on all Self Service screens at UofM because it allowed students direct access to registration features they were not authorized to use. You have no Registration Time Ticket. Please contact the registration administrator. You cannot register yet for one of these reasons: (1) You have not been fully accepted for admission. Call Undergraduate Admissions at 901.678.2111 or Graduate Admissions at 901.678.3685 to inquire about your admission status. (2) You need to be readmitted because you did not attend during the last Fall or Spring term. (3) It's too early for someone in your classification to register. Refer to the term's Dates & Deadlines calendar for your first day to register. You require re-admission prior to registration. When you skip a Fall or Spring term, you must apply for readmission. Normally, you are allowed to skip the Summer term. However, if you apply for admission/readmission to the Summer term, but don't take any Summer classes, you will receive the re-admission error message if you try to register for Fall. Since you didn't take Summer classes, the registration system "thinks" you decided not to attend at all. Furthermore, if you admit or readmit for Summer and register for both Summer and Fall classes, you will run into a problem with your Fall schedule if you drop your Summer schedule during the Summer Drop Period. You won't be able to access your Fall schedule because, the registration system now considers you an Inactive rather than Active student, and it will not allow an Inactive student to register. Once you apply for readmission to the Fall, you will be able to modify your Fall schedule. Your Faculty or Advisor is reviewing your registration at this time. Please try again later. Because your advisor has your registration record under review, you cannot update it. Once the advisor closes the record, you will be able to access your record. If in some rare instance you find that the record is locked for a very long time (hours), you should probably contact your advisor. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.