Continuing Education Programs Custom Training Services Sign In Sign In About Us Programs Custom Training Services Conference Services Continuing Education Units (CEUs) Custom Training Facility Rental Resources Sign In Support UCF Alumni and Faculty/Staff Discounts Teach for Us Area Hotels Enrollment Information Join Our Newsletter Email Address Sign Up Contact Us PHONE:407-882-0260 866-232-5834 EMAIL:ceprograms@ucf.edu LOCATION: We are located next to UCF's Main Campus on Research Parkway. Parking is free. 12351 Research Parkway RM 113 Orlando, FL 32826 Get Directions Accounting and Finance Arts Communications Computer Training Conferences and Events Customer Service, Sales, and Marketing Degree Programs Engineering and Technology Human Resources Insurance Language Law Leadership, Management, and Supervision Lifestyle and Wellness Medical Nonprofit Management Project Management Test Preparation Tools for Teachers Writing and Reading Sign In About Us Programs Custom Training Services Conference Services Continuing Education Units (CEUs) Custom Training Facility Rental Resources Sign In Support UCF Alumni and Faculty/Staff Discounts Teach for Us Area Hotels Enrollment Information Join Our Newsletter Email Address Sign Up Contact Us PHONE:407-882-0260 866-232-5834 EMAIL:ceprograms@ucf.edu LOCATION: We are located next to UCF's Main Campus on Research Parkway. Parking is free. 12351 Research Parkway RM 113 Orlando, FL 32826 Get Directions Accounting and Finance Arts Communications Computer Training Conferences and Events Customer Service, Sales, and Marketing Degree Programs Engineering and Technology Human Resources Insurance Language Law Leadership, Management, and Supervision Lifestyle and Wellness Medical Nonprofit Management Project Management Test Preparation Tools for Teachers Writing and Reading Search Custom and Corporate Training As part of UCF’s Division of Digital Learning, Continuing Education (UCF CE) offers professional development, corporate and customized training for our globally connected community of employers, employees and students. CE training can be customized to, not only meet, but exceed your specific organizational goals and objectives. Our focus is to increase individual and workforce efficiency while enhancing professional skillsets. CE programs are designed to meet your specifications and can be offered face-to-face or online at your business or UCF facilities. Our training can be customized for all levels of your organizational structure, from new trainees to executives. We can even assist with connecting groups and businesses that have similar training needs and who can benefit from partnering on programs. CE is a cost-effective and flexible option for investing in your team’s professional development, re-skilling or up-skilling. Training and Development Programs (sample programs) Management & Leadership Development Supervisory & Management Development Skills Leadership Development Skills Effective Negotiation Employment Law for Managers Change Management Emotional Intelligence Executive Coaching Strategic Planning Leading & Managing Multigenerational Teams Teambuilding Strategies General Business & Operations Human Resources Project Management Finance & Accounting for Non-financial Managers Effective Communication Customer Service And many more - Please input suggestions in the Get Started form below if you do not see what you’re looking for! In addition to our organizational training options, we also provide one & two-day Executive Education Workshops. Click here for our upcoming schedule and program details! Partnering to Enhance Your Business CE partners with organizations to design customized higher learning and continuing education programs for industry-related training and specific coursework to meet their workforce goals. Through these partnerships, we hope to continue to inspire your team’s love of learning and professional development. Get Started! Please fill out the form and a program manager will contact you to discuss your needs. First Name: Last Name: Email: Phone: Comment or Question: Division of Continuing Education 12351 Research Parkway RM 113 Orlando, FL 32826 ce@ucf.edu Phone: 407-882-0260 Fax: 407-882-0266 Toll Free: 866-232-5834 Hours: Monday - Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Quick Links Sign In Support Custom Training Teach for us Join Newsletter Job Opportunities Privacy Policy A division of Digital Learning © University of Central Florida × Close