COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson.edu Public Service and Agriculture Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Pesticide Regulation Plant Industry Ag Service Lab Fertilizer & Seed Plant & Pest Diagnostic Clinic State Entomologist Contact Plant and Pest Diagnostic Clinic Since COVID-19 restrictions have been eased, our staff are now present in the lab 5 days a week. Samples may be dropped off at the front desk, and lab personnel are available to assist clients in person (by appointment only), or by phone or email. Clients who wish to submit are urged to call ahead and are required to wear a mask while in the building. Samples may be shipped via UPS, FedEx, and USPS. We are here to receive packages Monday - Friday, excluding holidays. Samples may also be dropped off at our building’s drop box located at our rear loading dock, which also houses sample forms, bags, and other supplies. Please notify Lab Coordinator Diana Low (dlow@clemson.edu or (864) 646-2133) when a sample is placed in the drop box. The Clemson University Plant and Pest Diagnostic Clinic is a multi-disciplinary program which provides diagnoses and management recommendations for plant and turf problems, which include diseases, nematodes, weeds, environmental issues, nutritional deficiencies and insect pests of plants. We also identify insects infesting structures, humans, pets and livestock. The Plant and Pest Diagnostic Clinic receives samples from the Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offices, homeowners, growers, landscapers, turfgrass management professionals and researchers. Our diagnosticians work closely with Clemson University specialists to provide management recommendations. As a part of Clemson University Regulatory Services, we also help to detect and document new plant diseases and pests in South Carolina. Samples may be submitted through the County Extension offices or directly to the laboratory. Each location has the supplies needed for submitting samples. Sample submission forms may be found in the right-hand column of this page. Our laboratories include the Plant and Pest Diagnostic Clinic, Nematode Assay Lab, Commercial Turfgrass Clinic and MPPD Lab. Our laboratory address is: Clemson University Plant and Pest Diagnostic Clinic 511 Westinghouse Road Pendleton, SC 29670 (864) 646-2133 ppclnc@clemson.edu Laboratory hours are Monday - Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. (closed during lunch hour, noon - 1:00 p.m.) FORMS Plant Diagnostic form Plant/Weed Identification form Insect Identification form Nematode Assay form Turf Diagnostic form (homeowners & landscapers) Commercial Turfgrass Form (golf courses & athletic fields) SUBMISSION GUIDELINES Plant Diagnostic Samples Plant or Weed Identification Insect Identification PDIS: Plant Diagnostic Information System (University personnel only) Index of Plant Diseases in SC Regulatory Concern: Diseases & Pests Plant and Pest Diagnostic Clinic Commercial Turfgrass Clinic Annual Reports Molecular Plant Pathogen Detection Lab Nematode Assay Lab CU Home & Garden Information Center Xiao Yang Diagnostician Manager 864-646-2133 Fax: 864-646-2178 xyang7@clemson.edu Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Regulatory Services 511 Westinghouse Road, Pendleton, SC 29670 864-646-2120 | Contact Us Emergency Preparedness For Employees Page Update Request