Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel Admissions Criteria Tuck classes are diverse by design, but our students share four common characteristics that form the basis of our admissions criteria. Tuck students are smart, accomplished, aware and encouraging; no two candidates are equally strong across all criteria, and you may demonstrate different strengths in different ways. Tuck students are smart, curious, and engaged. Your intellectual aptitude matters. Your grades and test scores reflect previous academic performance, communication skills, and ability with numbers. You also realize you don’t know it all. You’re curious, excited by challenges, and motivated to learn from others’ knowledge and experiences. You continually seek to grow by engaging and exploring the world around you. Your aptitude and curiosity will strengthen your functional expertise, your analytic skills, and your ability to develop and defend points of view in Tuck’s rigorous learning environment. Tuck students are accomplished, impactful, and principled. Your professional performance matters, as do community engagement and personal achievements. You are excellent at your job and impactful outside of it. And you have the results, progression, and endorsements to prove it. You also act with conviction, thrive in tough moments, and seek to win the right way. Your principled commitment to these behaviors, in both success and setback, will help you make bold decisions, solve problems, seize opportunities, and take the right risks at Tuck and beyond. Tuck students are aware, ambitious, and purposeful. You know who you are, and you understand how your values and experiences have shaped your identity and character. You also connect your past experiences and present motivations with your path forward, and craft a compelling vision for the future. You identify coherent goals, audacious in scope yet grounded in reality, and articulate how the distinctive Tuck MBA will advance your aspirations to better the world through business. You recognize how your individuality will add to the fabric of the Tuck community and make a difference. Tuck students are encouraging, collaborative, and empathetic. This is quintessential Tuck, where you actively celebrate and support others. You also exhibit emotional intelligence, layer compassion onto courage, and challenge others tactfully and thoughtfully. You act with respect and integrity, even when it is not convenient or easy. You work effectively with others by empathizing with their diverse experiences and perspectives. You believe that your success and others’ success are interdependent, and generously invest in both. You build trust-based relationships which will endure for life. Apply Now Connect With Us Take a 360° Tour of Campus Helpful Links Application Materials Additional Info for Applicants Financing Your Degree Admissions FAQ Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Tuck Ambassadors Tuck on Social Tuck 360: MBA Blog Tuck’s 2022-2023 Essay Questions Admissions Home Return to the Tuck Admissions homepage. Applying to Tuck Guidance as you prepare to apply. Admissions FAQ Have questions? Find answers here. Connect with Our Community Learn more about Tuck by connecting with members of our community. Class Profile Get to know the incoming class at Tuck. Virtual Class Visits Watch recordings from select current classes to get a better sense of the virtual classroom experience at Tuck. Important Dates Upcoming dates and deadlines. Visit and Interview Learn more about our interview process and explore our campus virtually. 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy