Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Chemistry About Programs People Research Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate Advising BS, Chemistry Major BS, Chemistry, Biochemistry conc. BS in Chemistry (ACS Approved) BS in Chemistry, Biochemistry conc. Chemistry Minor Courses and Information Permit Requests Scholarships & Awards Student Members of ACS (SMACS) Research Opportunities NSF REU Program Graduate Ph. D. ChemistryMaster of Science in ChemistryCoursesAdvisingAssistantshipsApply! Take Action Apply to the Department of Chemistry Contact us! Seminar Schedule Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of Chemistry Programs Chemistry Undergraduate Scholarships Chemistry Scholarships for Undergrads Scholarships for entering freshmen are awarded based on information submitted on the University of Memphis admissions application. A separate application is not required for these scholarships unless noted on the Scholarship Office website. A small number of departmental scholarships are available to students already pursuing undergraduate degrees in the Department of Chemistry at The University of Memphis. The J. C. Williams Memorial Scholarship was established in 1997 in honor of a distinguished analytical chemistry professor to foster interest in chemistry as an academic major and assist students in the completion of the Bachelor's degree in preparation for going on to graduate studies in chemistry. The William H. Zuber Memorial Scholarship was established in 1998 to honor this former student and faculty member. It is intended to foster interest in chemistry as an academic major and assist students in the completion of the Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Chemistry. Apply through the Tiger Scholarship Manager on the Account$ tab at my.memphis.edu. The Tiger Scholarship Manager is a secure, online system that offers a centralized location for all scholarship opportunities at the University of Memphis. It offers a centralized, searchable database, an online application process, tools to help match you to eligible scholarships, and tools to upload supportive documents (i.e. resumes, essays, recommendations letters, financials, etc.). Visit the Scholarship Office website for more information on UofM scholarships including when and how to apply. The American Chemical Society Scholars Program, sponsored by the American Chemical Society, is a national scholarship program to encourage minority students to enter the fields of chemistry, biochemistry, chemical engineering or other chemically related fields such as environmental science, materials science or toxicology. Applications are due to ACS before March 1 each year. Awards for Chemistry Undergrads The Chi Beta Phi award honors the highest achieving graduating senior with a major in Chemistry (BS or BSCH). The Outstanding Freshman Chemistry Major award recognizes a student who has performed exceptionally well in General Chemistry courses, and has been actively involved in department activities. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/3/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.