Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Chemistry at Brown: Undergraduate Home About Research Academics Undergraduate Research Opportunities Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses CHEM - Web Tutorial Transfer Credit Honors & Awards ChemDUG REUs & Funding Graduate Courses Resources People News Seminars & Events Site Navigation Home About Facilities & Services NMR Facility Mass Spectrometry Facility Machine Shop Electronics Shop Stockroom Room Reservations Connect your Computer Outreach & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Action Committee Outreach Activities Chemistry Anonymous Climate Form Visitor & Contact Information Travel Policies for Guests Brown Chemistry Department Employment Opportunities & Internship Postings Geo-Chem MacMillan Safety Resources Research Chemical Biology Inorganic Chemistry Nano and Materials Chemistry Organic Chemistry Physical & Theoretical Chemistry Chemical Education Publications Academics Undergraduate Research Opportunities Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses CHEM - Web Tutorial Transfer Credit Honors & Awards ChemDUG REUs & Funding Graduate Financial Support and Funding Opportunities Awards Graduate Leadership Courses Resources People Faculty Staff Department Directory News Archive Seminars & Events Endowed Lectures DIAC-Hosted Events Alumni Speaker Series Chemistry Web Tutorial Prepare for the Chemistry Placement Exam. Refresh and expand your introductory chemistry knowledge. Get feedback about your level of preparation. Do it online and at your own pace. CHEM-Web is a free online tutorial that helps incoming first-year students review general chemistry. It covers stoichiometry, atomic and molecular structure, chemical bonding, solutions, chemical reactions, and thermochemistry. The CHEM-Web does not exempt students from taking the Chemistry placement exam. The program can help you prepare for the placement exam. The alternative is to take CHEM0100, a semester-long class offered during the fall, then take CHEM0330 in the spring semester. This tutorial is cost-free and is appropriate for students of all backgrounds. Registration The CHEM-Web tutorial will open on June 15, 2022. Access the CHEM-Web Registration Form. Please note that you will need to log in with your Brown e-mail credentials. Within 24 hours of registration, you will be added to CHEM-Web in Canvas, Brown's learning management system. To access Canvas, visit canvas.brown.edu and log in using your Brown net ID (e.g. "jsmith") and password. If you need assistance with your username or password, please contact [email protected]. To learn more about Chem-Web, please email [email protected]. Frequently Asked Questions 1. Is CHEM-Web tutorial taken for a grade or class credit? No, the tutorial is for the students' benefit and will assist in preparing for the Chemistry placement exam. 2. Does taking the CHEM-Web tutorial replace taking a semester of chemistry or the chemistry placement exam? No, the CHEM-Web tutorial is not for credit or for a grade. Students must take the chemistry placement exam. 3. Are there exams or quizzes in the CHEM- Web tutorial? Yes, there are quizzes and exams. The Canvas program automatically grades your quizzes but the grades are not used in your placement in a chemistry course. Students should complete the quizzes and exams to keep track of their progress. It is a good idea to aim for 70% on the first four unit exams. 4. If you have technical issues in attempting to log in or access the Canvas site, please contact [email protected] ___ updated 5/5/2022. Undergraduate Research Opportunities Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses CHEM - Web Tutorial Transfer Credit Honors & Awards ChemDUG REUs & Funding Department of Chemistry Department of Chemistry Brown University Box H 324 Brook Street Thayer Street at MacMillan Lawn Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2321 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top