Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Professional Writing Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Professional Writing Certificate (Undergraduate) Professional Writing Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Professional Writing Become an experienced communicator fit for numerous professional roles and industries with the Undergraduate Certificate in Professional Writing in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. Hone the skills needed to produce research-driven content tailored to diverse audiences and clients. Precise and adaptive writing remains an invaluable asset in the modern job market, with roles for technical writers showing steady growth through 2028, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Employers across several growing fields continue to require versatile writers adept at conveying complex information. Coursework in this 15-credit certificate program can be selected according to your individual interests and career goals. Develop competencies around science and medical writing, or focus on creating content best suited to business and industry. A Career Internship course provides on-the-job training, preparing students for a seamless transition into the post-graduate workforce. Classes & Curriculum Students have four years to satisfy their requirements for the Certificate in Professional Writing program, which is awarded at the completion of your bachelor’s program. It cannot be awarded as a stand-alone program of study or after completion of your bachelor’s degree. The 15-credit program curriculum comprises two 2000-level courses, two 3000-level courses and one elective course. You can choose from courses that include the following. Beyond the Field: Sports and Storytelling Literacy and Society Medical Writing Non-Fiction Writing Science Writing Technical Writing Writing for the Arts Writing the Research Essay Students who are majoring in English (or the English Major with the Creative Writing track) may double-count no more than two courses between these programs. Learn more about Certificate in Professional Writing program requirements. Related Graduate Degrees English MA English PhD Careers The skills gained from a liberal arts degree are highly relevant in today’s rapidly evolving world. Apply the experience and knowledge acquired in the Professional Writing Certificate (Undergraduate) program to your professional pursuits across many organizations and industries, including academics, cultural institutions, government agencies or the social sciences. The versatility of this program’s curriculum helps you graduate with valuable skill sets sought by many employers. Students in the Certificate in Professional Writing program are prepared to enter the global workforce in the following professional areas. Communications Content development Editing For-profit organizations Government Nonprofit organizations Publishing Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Gabriel Wettach is the undergraduate advisor. Phone: 215-204-8510 Email: gabe@temple.edu Program Contact With questions regarding the Professional Writing Certificate (Undergraduate), contact the following staff member. Stephanie Morawski is an administrator in the English Department. Phone: 215-204-8516 Email: morawski@temple.edu The following staff members lead the English Department. Roland Williams is chair of the English Department. Email: rolandw@temple.edu Rose Wint is the undergraduate coordinator for the English Department. Phone: 215-204-7563 Email: rwint@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-PRWR-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Professional Writing Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.