COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Modern and Classical Languages and Literatures - Bilingual Option, Major MajorModern and Classical Languages and Literatures - Bilingual Option All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Modern and Classical Languages and Literatures Wichita State's Bachelor of Arts (BA) in MCLL—bilingual option—allows you to increase your fluency in two languages as you complete your degree. You'll have access to study-abroad opportunities, informal conversation groups and the Music and Languages Innovation Center's vast resources. And you'll be well prepared to pursue an advanced degree—and to apply your language abilities in a variety of careers. Learn how the MCLL - bilingual option - is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum The major consists of 33 credit hours divided between your two chosen languages, consisting of 12 hours of each language beyond FREN210, GERM210, LATN112, RUSS210 or SPAN 210—in addition to other requirements and electives. View the curriculum Careers A language degree from Wichita State will give you the knowledge and skills to pursue graduate studies—and opens doors to careers at home and abroad. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Spanish French Latin International Business Linguistics (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©