Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Piano Performance and Music Theory MM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Piano Performance and Music Theory MM Apply Request More Info Piano Performance and Music Theory MM Admissions Careers & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Music in Piano Performance and Music Theory Increase your music proficiency while studying current trends in music theory with the Master of Music in Piano Performance and Music Theory dual degree program in the Boyer College of Music and Dance at Temple. Receive personalized instruction and hands-on experience that prepares you for a successful career as a composer, performer or teacher. Completion of this program also readies you for further academic study at the doctoral level. This interdepartmental, dual master’s degree program immerses you in the history and theory of music, while also providing you with unique opportunities to perform as a soloist or part of an ensemble. You will attend a series of seminars focused on research and discussion, through which you will build strong skills around music analysis and develop the tools needed to apply music theory in an academic environment. Graduates of the Piano Performance and Music Theory MM program are well-positioned to begin a successful career in music, or further their academic and musical training at the doctoral level. Possible career paths available to graduates include composer, conductor, therapist and more. To apply to this program, you should be able to read a foreign language, have a well-rounded background in music history and theory, and be a skilled writer. What sets apart the Piano Performance and Music Theory MM program? Renowned faculty: Students in this master’s program receive individual instruction from Boyer’s award-winning faculty, which includes members of The Philadelphia Orchestra and other major metropolitan performing organizations, as well as artists who have performed as soloists or with ensembles around the world. Learn more about our keyboard studies and music theory faculty. A unique learning experience: Boyer College of Music and Dance is one of the only colleges in the country currently offering a dual master’s degree program that combines piano performance and music theory, making this a rare and significant learning opportunity. Philadelphia connection: Temple’s Main Campus is located less than one mile from the city’s historic cultural institutions and celebrated music venues, including the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts, Opera Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Ballet, Philadanco, Philadelphia Museum of Art and The Philadelphia Orchestra. Photo credit: Joseph V. Labolito Program Format & Curriculum The 44-credit Master of Music in Piano Performance and Music Theory must be completed within five semesters. Classes are held in-person on Temple’s Main Campus. Courses for the program include the following. Baroque & Classical Keyboard Performance Practice Canon and Fugue Current Topics in Musicology and Theory Piano Pedagogy I & II Research in Music Seminar in Theoretical Analysis (Post-Tonal Music) Seminar in Theoretical Analysis (Schenkerian Analysis) The program culminates in a piano recital adjudicated by senior members of the department, a comprehensive examination and a written project that is 30 to 40 pages in length. Learn more about course requirements for the Piano Performance and Music Theory MM. Related Graduate Degrees Composition MM Music History MM Music MA Music MS Music PhD Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Contact the following advisor with questions about the Piano Performance and Music Theory MM program. Charles Abramovic is the chair of Keyboard Studies. Email: charles.abramovic@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-7388 Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contacts Charles Abramovic is the chair of Keyboard Studies and coordinator of the DMA in Performance. Email: charles.abramovic@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-7388 Edward Latham is the program coordinator in the Music Studies Department. Email: edward.latham@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-8498 Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student clubs and organizations at Temple, including the following. The Boyer College Electroacoustic Ensemble Project (BEEP) brings together students who create electroacoustic music in a collaborative environment. It functions as an electronic music band, a fusion of computers and traditional instruments, and a laptop orchestra. ConTemplum hosts numerous concerts, forums and seminars to foster a community of musicians who are dedicated to exploring contemporary musical ideas and performing new compositions. Temple University Theory and Musicology Society (THEMUS) gives students an open forum to discuss and develop scholarly work within the disciplines of music theory and musicology. Each semester, THEMUS hosts guest, faculty and student lectures. The group also organizes an annual graduate student conference for theory and musicology. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-PPMT-MMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Piano Performance and Music Theory MM Admissions Careers & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info