Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Graduate Student Life Menu Main Nav Graduate Student Life Contact Back Back Close About Overview Murray House Meet Our Staff Programs and Services Overview Doctoral Writing Group Graduate Leadership Program Grads Give Back GPS Grad Student Retreat New Graduate and Professional Student Orientation Grad Student Association Overview Senate and Student Organizations Campus Life Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Murray House Home About Murray House About Murray House Meet Our Staff Murray House The John Courtney Murray, S.J. House is dedicated to the support and enrichment of graduate student life at Boston College. Its primary purpose is to build a sense of community among the graduate student population. No need to reserve a space, just visit during our open hours. Please use the accessible ramp entrance at the front of the building, or the stairs at the back entrance, as needed. If you would like a tour of the space staff would be happy to assist you. We hope to see you soon! If you would like to reserve a private study space for an individual or group, please review this space reservation policy and then fill out this Google Form. A member of our office will reach out to confirm that reservation request Hours: Regular operating hours (M-Th: 9am-6pm;Friday: 9am-5pm) Murray House Space Descriptions Murray House Space Descriptions Living Room (First floor) Amenities: TV screen equipped with Mersive Solstice screen sharing technology, couches, board games, air purifier Dining Room (First floor) Amenities: Large study table, air purifier. An accessible, gender-neutral bathroom is available just off the dining room. Reading Room (Second floor) Amenities: Comfy chair and sofas, coloring books and pencils, yoga mats, foam rollers, bean bag chairs, air purifier Conference Room (Second floor) Amenities: Large conference table; whiteboard, TV screen equipped with Mersive Solstice screen sharing technology, air purifier Computer Lab (Second floor) Amenities: BC printing station, scanner, computers for public use About John Courtney Murray, S.J. Who Was John Courtney Murray, S.J.? John Courtney Murray, SJ, was a member of the Society of Jesus and an American theologian. He was especially known for his efforts to reconcile Catholicism and religious pluralism, and he was instrumental in the formulation of many ground-breaking Vatican II (1962-1965) documents - most notably Gaudium et Spes [The Church in the Modern World], and Dignitatis Humanae [Declaration on Religious Freedom]. He was a friend and colleague of Karol Wojtyla during Vatican II, who eventually became the famous Pope John Paul II. Murray was born in New York City in 1904 and entered the New York province of the Society of Jesus in 1920. He studied Classics and Philosophy at Boston College, receiving bachelor's and master's degrees in 1926 and 1927 respectively. Following graduation from BC, he travelled to the Philippines where he taught Latin and English literature at the Ateneo de Manila. He returned to the United States in 1930 and was ordained a Roman Catholic priest in 1933. He completed a doctorate in sacred theology in 1937 at the Gregorian University in Rome. Upon returning to the United States, he taught Catholic trinitarian theology at the Jesuit theologate at Woodstock, Maryland, and in 1941 was named editor of the Jesuit journal Theological Studies. He held both positions until his death in Queens, New York in 1967. Murray became a leading public figure, and his work dealt primarily with the tensions between religion and public life. His best-known book, We Hold These Truths: Catholic Reflections on the American Proposition is a collection of his essays regarding these tensions, all of which are centered on the separation of church and state, allowing individuals to assume control over their own religious beliefs. Murray advocated religious freedom as defined and protected by the First Amendment, and he eventually argued that Catholic teaching on church/state relations no longer served contemporary society. Not surprisingly, his work initially was not well received by the Church and he had to cease publishing his book for a number of years. At the time, his work seemed rather progressive, particularly with respect to accommodating ideas of religious freedom with an increasingly religiously pluralistic society. However, Murray and his work became well-known when he was featured on the cover of Time Magazine in the December 12, 1960 issue, which featured "U.S. Catholics & the State" as the cover story. Murray collaborated on a project with Robert Morrison MacIver of Columbia University to assess academic freedom and religious education in American public universities. In light of his increasingly public role, several American bishops consulted Murray on legal issues such as censorship and birth control. In 1966, prompted by the Vietnam War, Murray was appointed to serve on Lyndon Johnson's presidential commission that reviewed Selective Service classifications. He supported the allowance of a classification for those opposed on moral grounds to some (though not all) wars — a recommendation that was ultimately not accepted by the Selective Service Administration. John Courtney Murray’s legacy at Boston College is set by his steady commitment to the promotion of progressive issues, serving as an exemplary paragon to which we may all aspire. We are honored that the Murray House is named after such an esteemed, influential individual. Back To Top Back To Top Graduate Student Life The John Courtney Murray, S.J. House 292 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-1855 gsc@bc.edu About Programs Grad Student Association Campus Life Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College