Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Professional & Liberal Studies Areas of Study Online Resources Community Engagement Connect Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Find the program that's right for you Become a part of CPLS Advising Appointments Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home College of Professional & Liberal Studies College of Professional & Liberal Studies Community Engagement College of Professional & Liberal Studies Community Engagement College of Professional & Liberal Studies supports educational initiatives through several grant-funded programs. These initiatives ensure our department is able to provide the best education and experience for students at the University of Memphis. Keep Tennessee Beautiful Keep Tennessee Beautiful (KTnB) is sponsored by the Tennessee Department of Transportation with funds from special taxes levied on malt beverage and the soft drink industries (57-5-201 and 67-4-402). Since 1983, KTnB has served as a state resource center for litter prevention, community greening, and recycling & waste reduction education. The organizational values of Keep Tennessee Beautiful include waste elimination, volunteerism, and community building and partnership.The mission of KTnB is to inspire and educate Tennesseans to take action every day to improve and beautify their community environment. ACE Awareness Training ACE Awareness Training for Childcare Providers is a grant funded by the Urban Child Institute. The grant focuses on recruiting childcare facilities from zip codes where there is a high percentage of children living below the federal poverty level. ACE Awareness Training provides workshops and coaching for social and emotional development in young children ages 0-4. Participants also benefit from an interdisciplinary course that focuses on the concepts of ACE awareness with a focus on social and emotional development. Perea Preschool The Urban Child Institute also funds a partnership between The University of Memphis and the Perea Preschool which allows students an opportunity to work with Perea Preschool staff on behavioral intervention. LENA LENA is a grant through Seeding Success, a partnership that represents organizations that are committed to fearlessly pursuing educational outcomes for children. The LENA Research Foundation is a 501(c)(3) public charity based in Boulder, Colorado. Its mission is to accelerate language development to improve the cognitive, social, and emotional health of children 0-5 and to close achievement gaps. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/11/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.