Skip to main content GSD Logo Harvard University Graduate School of Design Reopening Menu Search Academics Department of Architecture Department of Landscape Architecture Department of Urban Planning and Design Design Studies Design Engineering Doctoral Programs Undergraduate Architecture Studies Loeb Fellowship Executive Education Early Design Education Research Courses More ▼ Apply GSD Now Give People Faculty Staff Students Alumni About Administrative Leadership Council Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Alumni and Friends Website Resources Most Popular: Admissions COVID-19 Financial Aid Frances Loeb Library Student Affairs Offices & Services All Resources → For: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Explore News Events Exhibitions Publications Podcasts Projects Topics Site Index Jump to: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A AIA Henry Adams Certificate AIA Henry Adams Medal AICP Outstanding Student Award Academic Affairs Academic Appointments and Policies Academic Calendars & Schedules Academic Conduct Policy Academic Integrity Academic Services & Advising Accellion Secure File Transfer Accessibility Services Accessibility Services at Public Programs Access to Career Services During Leave of Absence Accreditation Administrative Leadership Council Admissions Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions FAQ AfricaGSD After MDes Workshops After MDes Workshops Aga Khan Program at the GSD Alpha Rho Chi Medal Alumni Connections Alumni Council Career Panels American Society of Landscape Architects Awards Application Checklist Apply Apply for Financial Aid Apply for a Job with Computer Resources Applying for Restricted Scholarships Araldo A. Cossutta Annual Prize for Design Excellence Architecture Architecture Core Prep Areas of Concentration Art, Design, and the Public Domain Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2018 Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2019 Attendance Augmented & Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Award Details Award for Excellence in Project-Based Urban Planning Award for Excellence in Urban Design Award for Outstanding Leadership in Urban Planning and Urban Design B Benefits & Perks Biking Borrowing Print Materials Building Services Business Cards for Students C COVID-19 Information for Staff COVID-19 Testing and Tracing CREATE for Alumni CREATE for Employers CREATE for Students Canvas Capital Improvements and Projects Career Paths by Program Career Resources for Alumni Career Services: Alumni Career Services: Employers Career Services: FAQs Career Services: Faculty Career Services: Students Career Services Offerings Career Services Video Library Careers Casual Conversations With GSD Alumni Change of Address Charles Abrams Scholarship Charles Eliot Traveling Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Chauhaus Classroom Equipment Classroom Technology Clifford Wong Prize in Housing Design Commencement 2022 Commencement Information Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Communications Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Computer Accounts and Passwords Computer Labs Computer Recommendations Computer Requirements Computer Resources Group Concurrent and Joint Degrees Connecting to the File Server Connect with the GSD Contact Contact Admissions Contact Financial Aid Contact the GSD Cost Recovery Policy Course Catalog Course Descriptions Course Info Sessions and Videos Critical Conservation Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2018 Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2019 Cross-Registration Policies & Procedures Current MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements Current MUP Degree Requirements Curriculum Custodial Services D DDes & PhD Financial Aid DDes/PhD Open House Schedule DDes Guidelines for the Dissertation DDes Guidelines for the General Exam DDes Guidelines for the Prospectus DIB Annual Report DIB Programs Daniel L. Schodek Award for Technology and Sustainability Daniel Urban Kiley Teaching Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Dean’s Office Degree Checks Degree Programs Degree Requirements Policies Degree Verifications Design Computing at the GSD Design Labs Design Now: A Quarterly Podcast from Harvard’s Graduate School of Design Design Studies Thesis Prize Desktop 3D Printing Regulations Development and Alumni Relations Digital Delivery and Electronic Resources Digital Design Prize Digital Governance Policy Dimitris Pikionis Award Directions Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging at Career Services Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Offerings Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Resources Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Doctoral Grader (Union Position) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Design Program (DDes) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Document Request Form Druker Traveling Fellowship E ETH Zurich Exchange Program Early Design Education Ecologies Eligibility Email Accounts Emergencies Employer Presentations Employers & Career Paths for Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for Landscape Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for MDE Students Employers & Career Paths for MDes and DDes Students Employers & Career Paths for Urban Planning and Design Students Endowed Fellowships & Financial Aid Funds Energy and Environment Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2017 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2018 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2019 Enrollment Certifications Enrollment Policies Environmental Health and Safety at the GSD Equipment for Classroom Instruction Equitable Accountability Ergonomics Event Audiovisual Support Event Participation for Alumni Event Planning for Faculty and Staff Event Planning for Students Events Events Archive Executive Education Exemptions, Waivers, and Substitutions for MUPs Exhibitions F FAQ FERPA Fabrication Laboratory Faculty Faculty: Collaborate With Career Services Faculty Affairs Office Faculty Directory Faculty Handbooks, Administrative Policies, and Guidelines for Instruction Faculty Research Federal Work-Study Information Fellowships, Funding Sources, and Internships for Students Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Ferdinand Colloredo-Mansfeld Prize for Superior Achievement in Real Estate Studies Final Review Schedule (Spring 2021 – M1, Full-term, M2) Finance Office Financial Aid Financial Aid Application Process for Current Students Financial Aid Application for Prospective Students Financial Aid FAQ Financial Aid Handbook Financial Aid and Satisfactory Progress Financial Matters First Meetings for Option Studios Flexwork at the GSD Frances Loeb Library Fulbright U.S. Student Program G GLACIER GSD-Courances Residency Program GSD Alumni Council Career Panels GSD Community Calendar GSD Consumer Information GSD Diversity Cabinet GSD Payroll Coordinators GSD Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund GSD Radio GSD Student Payroll GSD Web Style Gain Experience General Ledger Gifts & Grants Grading Grant Aid H Harvard-MIT Course Logistics Harvard GSD Job & Internship Fair 2022 Harvard Graduate School of Design Employer Recruiting Policies Harvard Graduate School of Design Fact Book Harvard ID Card Harvard International Office Harvard Shuttle and Van Service Harvard Travel Registry Health Services Heating/Cooling Schedule Help Desk Hiring Students: Information for Faculty History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2018 History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2019 History and Philosophy of Design and Media Home How To Plot How to Post an Event to GSD Now How to Write a Resume That Stands Out Human Resources Human Resources Forms & Policies Hybrid Classroom I IT Policies Income Processing Policy and Procedures Information for Current DDes Students Information for Current PhD Students Installing AEScript AfterEffects Plugin Installing Adobe’s Creative Cloud Software Installing ArcGis Installing AutoDesk Installing Cargo Installing Cinema 4D Installing ClimateStudio Installing DesignBuilder Installing Diva for Rhino Installing Flovent Installing GRANTA EduPack Installing Houdini Installing KeyShot Installing MasterCam Installing MathCAD Installing Miro Installing Modelo Installing Multiframe and MicroStation Installing Printers For Windows Installing Printers for Mac Installing Reality Capture Installing Render Services Installing Rhino Installing RhinoTerrain Installing RobotStudio Installing SketchUp Installing SolidWorks Installing VRay for 3DS Max Installing VRay for Rhino Installing Windows on a Mac Using Parallels International Financial Aid International Student Resources Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Alien Staff Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Bunker Hill Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Dis-Armor Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – El Centro Cultural Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Hiroshima Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Homeless Vehicle Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Loro Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Personal Instrument Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Poliscar Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Abraham Lincoln Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Admiral Farragut Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Central Library Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The City Hall Tower Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Kunstmuseum Basel Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The New Mechelenians Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Real Estate Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Vehicle Irving Innovation Fellowship J J-Term Jacob Weidenman Prize James Templeton Kelley Prize Job Search Resources: Planning, Urban Design, Real Estate Julia Amory Appleton Traveling Fellowship in Architecture K KPF Traveling Fellowship Kevin V. Kieran Prize Key Requests L Landscape Architecture Landscape Architecture Faculty Office Hours Landscape Architecture Thesis Prize Leave of Absence Leaves/Withdrawals and Tuition Charges Library Access & Borrowing Library Liaisons Library Resources & Services Library Resources for Alumni and Visitors Library Staff Life at the GSD Limited-Enrollment Lottery LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard Live Course Presentations Living Guidebook to Virtual Teaching and Learning Living in Cambridge Loan Deferments Loeb Fellowship M MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements MAUD/MLAUD Student Work MArch Course Waiver and Substitution Policy and Procedures MArch Distributional Electives MArch Financial Aid MArch I AP Required Courses MArch II Required Courses MArch I Required Courses MArch Open House Schedule MArch Split Option MArch Thesis Program MDE Open House Schedule MDes Financial Aid MDes Open House Schedule MDes Research and Development Award MDes Technology MLA Degree Requirements MLA Financial Aid MLA Open House Schedule MLA Thesis Guidelines MLA Waivers and Substitutions MUP & MAUD Financial Aid MUP Degree Requirements MUP Outreach Mail Center Mail Policy Master in Architecture I Master in Architecture II Master in Design Engineering Master in Design Studies (MDes) Master in Design Studies (MDes) Pre-Fall 2021 Master in Landscape Architecture I Master in Landscape Architecture I AP Master in Landscape Architecture II Master in Real Estate Master in Urban Planning Master in Urban Planning and Juris Doctor Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Administration Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Health Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Policy Meditation Room Mediums Microsoft Teams Mindfulness, Stress Reduction, & Time Management N NAAB Accreditation Information and Resources Narratives News News Archive Newsletter Nondiscrimination Policy Norman T. Newton Prize O Obtaining a MA State ID Card Office Hour Signup Tools Office Updates Office for Urbanization Office of Career Services Office of Student Affairs Online Registration (my.Harvard) Online Teaching Resources Open Access Policy Open Faculty Positions Open House Open Non-Faculty Academic Positions Opportunities to Recruit GSD Students Option Studio Lottery Spring 2022 Option Studio Presentations Organizational Charts Orientation and Registration for Incoming Students Other Courses of Interest Other J-Term Opportunities Outside Scholarships Outstanding Leadership in Real Estate Award P Page Lists Shortcodes Parking Participate in the Summer Community Service Fellowship Program Paul M. Heffernan International Travel Award Paying for Your Program Payroll Penny White Project Fund Performance Management Performance Management Permanent Records Personnel Manuals Person of Interest (POI) Peter Rice Internship Program at Renzo Piano Building Workshop Peter Rice Prize Peter Walker and Partners Fellowship for Landscape Architecture PhD Student Bios Photo Lab Photography Guidelines Planning Newsletter Plimpton-Poorvu Design Prize Podcasts Policy on Personal Conduct Pollman Fellowship in Real Estate and Urban Development Pre-orientation for New Students Printing Costs Printing Guide Printing Tips and Known Issues Prize for Academic Excellence in Urban Planning and Urban Design Program History Program Pedagogy Projects Protected: Poster Presentations for CSFP Fellows Public Programs Publications Publics Purchases & Expenses R REA Fund Recipients Rafael Moneo Rome Travel Award Real Estate and the Built Environment Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2017 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2018 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2019 Recent DDes Graduates Recent PhD graduates Recommended Backgrounds for Option Studios Recycling, Freecycling and Composting Refunds Registrar Registration Registration Procedures Replacement Diplomas Request Update to Profile Photo Requesting a GSD Subsite Requirements 2017-18 Requirements 2018-19 Research Research Administration Research Administration Resources Research Assistant (Union Position) Research Centers & Programs Research Fellow (Union Position) Research Programs & Initiatives Research Reports & Publications Resource Center Resources for New Graduates Resources for Partners and Families Respectful and Transparent Engagement Return to Campus & Technology Richard Rogers Fellowship Risk and Resilience Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2018 Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2019 Robert A. M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) Room Reservations S Safety, Health, and Wellbeing Sample Job Posting #1 Sample Job Posting #2 Scanners Scholarships for International Students Scholarships for US Citizens and Eligible Non-citizens Seating Charts and Assigned Seating Security Shift Schedule Social Media Social Media Special Collections Special Interest Links for Architecture Students Spiritual Life Spring 2021 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2021 Thesis Review Schedule Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Final Review Schedule Staff Awards & Recognition Staff Directory Staff Newsletter Staff Printing Stationery and Branding Student & Alumni Events Student Academic Affairs Committee Student Directory Student Employment Student Forum Student Forum Open ZOOM Room Student Group Directory Student Group Guide Student Policies Student Records and Transcript Policies Student Travel Information and Costs for Option Studios Students on Leave of Absence Studio Abroad Studio Culture Policy Studio Electricity Summer Peer-Learning Sessions Sustainability at the GSD T Takenaka Summer Internship Talking Practice Tax Resources Teaching Assistant & Research Assistant: Faculty Resources Teaching Assistant (Union Position) Teaching Fellow (Union Position) Technical and Administrative Positions (Non-union Positions) Technology Guide Technology – Required Courses 2018 Technology – Required Courses 2019 Telephones Term Bill The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Title IX Tokyo Summer Workshop Topics Transcripts Transportation Travel Safety and Guidelines Traveling Fellowships Tuition Tuition and Financial Aid U UPD Faculty Office Hours UPD Thesis Guidelines Undergraduate Architecture Studies University Policies & Procedures Updating Staff Profile Photos Urban Design Faculty Profiles Urban Planning and Design Urban Planning and Design Open House Schedule Urban Planning and Design Thesis Prize Urban Planning and Public Policy Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2018 Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2019 Utilizing LinkedIn V VPN Service Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design Veteran and Military Benefits Virtual & On-Campus Events W Web: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Web Editing: Media Web Profile Photos Wellness Resources Wheelwright Prize Who We Are Work Opportunities for Students Work Order Request Form Workshops and Personal Development 2 2020 Oct Iframe test 2021-2022 Academic Year Planning 2022 Application FAQs 2022 J-Term Courses Submit Search Resource Center Scholarships for International Students The following is a listing of outside scholarship opportunities for international students. a/e ProNet David W. Lakamp AIA Scholarship architectsfoundation.org Two students who best demonstrate strong interest in practice and risk management will each receive a $5,000 award. Aga Khan Scholarship akdn.org The Aga Khan Foundation provides a limited number of scholarships each year for postgraduate studies to outstanding students from developing countries who have no other means of financing their studies. Scholarships are awarded on a 50% grant: 50% loan basis through a competitive application process once a year in June or July. The Foundation gives priority to requests for Master’s level courses but is also willing to consider applications for PhD programs, when doctoral degrees are necessary for the career objectives of the student. Aker Scholarship cambridgetrust.org The programme supports Norwegian top students so that they can learn from the best in the world, independent of their family or financial situation. Scholarships are awarded to students in all fields of study. Alberta Scholarships Program – Sir James Lougheed Awards of Distinction studentaid.alberta.ca Applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents of Canada, be Alberta residents, and be enrolled or planning to enroll full-time in a graduate program at an institution outside of Alberta. There is a lifetime maximum of two awards per student. At the doctoral level, students must have completed at least one full year of graduate study or a master’s degree. American Association of University Women aauw.org International Fellowships are awarded for full-time study or research to women who are not United States citizens or permanent residents. Both graduate and postgraduate study at accredited institutions are supported. American-Scandinavian Foundation amscan.org The American-Scandinavian Foundation (ASF) offers over $500,000 in funding to Scandinavians to undertake study or research programs (usually at the graduate level) in the United States for up to one year. Candidates for awards are recommended to the ASF by our cooperating organizations. In order to apply submit applications to the appropriate cooperative organization (see website for details). Awards are made in all fields. American Society of Landscape Architects asla.org Lists various programs and scholarships for Landscape Architecture students. Arab Student Aid International arabstudentaid.org Arab Student Aid International provides interest-free, repayable student loans at the graduate and postgraduate levels without any prejudice to religion, gender, ethnic or racial backgrounds. Architects Foundation architectsfoundation.org Every year, the foundation awards thousands of dollars in scholarships to architecture students in NAAB-accredited graduate degree programs, and Architect Registration Exam (ARE) candidates who are working toward becoming licensed architects. Arts Council of Ireland artscouncil.ie Individuals of Irish birth or residence working with the Arts can apply for funding. Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada (AUCC) studying-in-canada.org The Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada administers many scholarships and internships for Canadian Students. The Association for Women in Architecture Foundation Scholarship usascholarships.com The Association for Women in Architecture Foundation offers an Annual Scholarship Award which is available to female students who reside or attend school in California and who are majoring in architecture, landscape architecture, urban and land planning, interior design, or environmental design. American India Foundation’s William J. Clinton Fellowship aif.org The AIF Clinton Fellowship is open to those aged 21 through 31 years of age who are Indian citizens or U.S. citizens/permanent residents and have received their undergraduate degree before the start of the fellowship. Barrie Foundation fundacionbarrie.org Postgraduate grant programs for Galician citizens. Becas Talentia untadeandalucia.es Scholarships for Andalusian citizens. Bergmeyer Scholarship bergmeyer.com This scholarship intended for a designer who is working towards a career in Interior Design. The Bergmeyer Scholarship recognizes and supports leadership potential in the field of Interior Design and Architecture through a $2,500 award. Canadian Federation of University Women Fellowships www.cfuw.org The Federation has multiple fellowships for women with Canadian citizenship in either Master or Doctoral level studies. Connecticut Architecture Foundation Scholarship cafct.org Students who have completed two years in accredited undergraduate architectural programs or have been accepted into an accredited graduate program are eligible to apply for this scholarship. Applicants must have a Connecticut connection (residence, school, work, etc.) in order to apply. In recent years, the individual awards have ranged from $2,000 to $5,000, depending upon the funds available in that year. CSN – Centrala Studiestödsnämnden csn.se This program hosts scholarship/fellowship opportunities for students from Sweden. Please visit their website for more details. Cultuur FB Oranjewoud cultuurfboranjewoud.nl/ Grant opportunities for students from the Netherlands. Cyprus Children’s Fund cyprus-childrensfund.org This Foundation has a couple of different scholarship options for students who have origins in Cyprus and/or Greece. Please visit their website for application details. Diversity Advancement Scholarship architectsfoundation.org This scholarship aims to provide assistance to individuals from a minority race or ethnicity who intend to become an architect through the pursuit of a NAAB-accredited professional degree in architecture. Edmond J. Safra Graduate Fellowship ethics.harvard.edu The Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics encourages teaching and research about ethical issues in the professions and public life. Its Graduate Fellowships support outstanding Harvard graduate and professional students who are writing dissertations or are engaged in major research on topics in practical ethics, especially ethical issues in areas such as architecture, business, education, government, law, medicine, public health, public policy, and religion. FIABCI Scholarship Foundation fiabciusa.site-ym.com The FIABCI Scholarship Foundation provides aid and travel assistance to students who demonstrate an interest in the field of international real estate or are enrolled in real estate related courses at a qualified university. You must be a member, member’s spouse, or a dependent of a member in order to apply. Flywire Charitable Foundation Scholarship flywire.com/company/foundation/scholarships Students in any major may apply for scholarships in the amount of $5,000 USD. Applicants must submit a short personal essay, and scholarships will be awarded to students who display a commitment to one of the following areas: social justice, global health, global citizenship, or environmental sustainability. Frank Boas Scholarship scholarship.harvard.edu The Boas Scholarship is awarded each year to a citizen of Belgium or Luxembourg who has been admitted for graduate study at Harvard University. Fulbright Program/Institute of International Education (IIE) iie.org Contains addresses for Educational/Information Centers and Fulbright commissions around the world administering scholarship programs for national citizens. Contact the center from your country directly to find out the latest information. Fundação Estudar’s Scholarship Program estudar.org.br Estudar offers a variety of educational programs in three main areas: Inspiration, Leadership, and Career. Through these programs, we support young people in fully developing their individual potential, in their search for the best education in Brazil and abroad, and in accessing compelling career opportunities. Georges Lurcy Charitable & Educational Trust lurcy.org Enables outstanding students of French colleges and universities to study in the United States. Candidates must demonstrate an interest in the fields of study related to American subjects such as the arts, government, and other areas. Global Education Program (GEP) educationglobal.ru/en This is a Russian government-funded program that offers Russian citizens an opportunity to study at leading foreign higher education institutions. Graduate Consortium on Energy and Environment Fellowship energy.harvard.edu This fellowship is open to all Harvard Doctoral students working on energy issues. Applications are due May 15th, please view the website for more details. Harvard Clubs of Germany scholarship.harvard-club.de Two loans of 10,000 EUR each for students who can prove acceptance at any Harvard school or college, demonstrated financial need, and German citizenship. Must also provide a short statement on why their particular course of study has been chosen. Harvard Graduate Student Award ghd-dubai.hms.harvard.edu/harvard-graduate-student-fellowship The Harvard Graduate Student Award will support advanced graduate students from Harvard University working on a dissertation or thesis research that addresses some of the most pressing health challenges in Dubai, the UAE, and the Center’s region. Dissertation or thesis research from all disciplines will be considered. Harvard University Native American Program (HUNAP) Fellowships and Grants hunap.harvard.edu HUNAP provides support to Harvard students to conduct research on Native American and Indigenous issues, for professional development activities, and for conference attendance. IKEA Foundation Switzerland ikea-stiftung.ch/en/ikea-foundation-switzerland The Ikea Foundation Switzerland considers applications from applicants who reside in Switzerland or who can prove that they have a close link to Switzerland. An example of this is if the applicant has completed long stretches of education to date in Switzerland or the applicant’s main place of residence is currently Switzerland. Institute of International Education iie.org Administers over 250 programs on behalf of sponsors that offer international fellowships, scholarships, loans, professional development and more. The program search tool allows students to search for programs by region, field of study, sponsor name, etc. International Education Financial Aid iefa.org Requires no marketing information and is a very comprehensive search engine for international scholarships. International Facility Management Association Foundation foundation.ifma.org The individual scholarships range in value from USD $1,500 to $10,000 and are awarded to undergraduate (2-year and 4-year) and graduate students enrolled in facility management or FM-related (built environment) programs. Scholarship recipients receive a cash award and fully subsidized World Workplace conference travel, registration, and participation. Iranian Scholarship Foundation theisf.org The Iranian Scholarship Foundation (ISF) provides scholarships to students of Iranian descent in the United States who demonstrate exceptional academic promise, significant financial need and a dedication to community service. Kennedy Memorial Trust kennedytrust.org.uk Scholarships are available for students of UK citizenship who attend MIT or Harvard for post-graduate studies. Please visit their website for the application and requirements. Kate Neal Kinley Memorial Fellowship faa.illinois.edu Three major Fellowships are awarded yearly to both U.S. nationals and international students. The application can be found on their website and is due in early December. Korean American Scholarship Foundation kasf.org The scholarship recipient is selected on the basis of financial need, academic achievement, school activities, and community services. Each applicant must submit an application to the respective KASF region, in which each region is designated by the state where school is located. Kosciuszko Foundation Scholarships thekf.org Various scholarships and grants for Poles, Americans of Polish descent, as well as exchange programs to Poland and the US, and summer scholarships. Lambda Alpha International lai-lef.org Lambda Alpha International’s Land Economics Foundation (LEF) offers a scholarship to a deserving graduate student pursuing a degree in one of the many fields related to land economics: architecture, geography, urban planning, landscape architecture, environmental planning, civil engineering, government, public administration, real estate, urban studies or law. The LEF Board of Directors has approved the award of a one year $3,000 (U.S.) scholarship, renewable for a second year, to a selected applicant studying in the United States, Canada, or Great Britain. La Caixa Foundation Fellowships fundacionlacaixa.org Scholarships for Spanish students for postgraduate studies in North America. Landscape Architecture Foundation Awards lafoundation.org Lists various programs and scholarships for Landscape Architecture graduate and undergraduate students. LASPAU: Academic and Professional Programs for the Americas laspau.harvard.edu For exchange programs between the United States, Canada, Latin America, and the Caribbean. Menzies Scholarship to Harvard anu.edu.au The Menzies Scholarship grants at least one annual award to talented Australians who have gained admission to a Harvard graduate school. The ideal candidates for the Scholarship are Australians whose primary objective, after completing their studies at Harvard, is to make a significant contribution to this country’s development. John R. Mott Scholarship Foundation mottscholarship.org Students native to the region of Calabria Italy who are enrolled to attend any accredited post-secondary school are encouraged to apply. Scholarships for up to $10,000/year are awarded. Netherland-America Foundation thenaf.org The Foundation supports educational exchanges by providing fellowships, interest-free student loans, and scholarships. Noma-Reischauer Prize in Japanese Studies rijs.fas.harvard.edu The prize will be awarded annually for the best essays on Japan-related topics written by Harvard University students; one prize of $1,500 for the best essay by a graduate student. Oppenheimer Memorial commonwealth.gostudy.net These are for postgraduate study at Masters, Doctoral and Postdoctoral level. South African nationals are eligible to apply and preference is given to candidates with a proven record of academic excellence, coupled with financial need, who intend to pursue careers in academia, research or related fields. Organization of American States Scholarship Program oas.org The OAS Academic Scholarship Program (Regular Program) grants scholarships every year for the pursuit of Master’s Degrees, Doctoral Degrees and Graduate Research leading to a university degree for students from Latin America and the Caribbean. P.E.O. International peointernational.org P.E.O. Scholar Awards (PSA) provides substantial merit-based awards for women of the United States and Canada who are pursuing a doctoral level degree at an accredited college or university. The fund was established in 1949 to provide scholarships for international women students to pursue graduate study in the United States and Canada. Rotary Foundation Scholarships rotary.org Various funding opportunities for graduate students of numerous disciplines. Rowe Fund oas.org/en/rowefund/ The Rowe Fund is an educational loan program of the Organization of American States (OAS) that helps citizens from Latin America and Caribbean OAS Member States finance their studies or research in accredited universities across the United States by awarding interest-free loans of up to $15,000 dollars. By financing a portion of their studies in the United States, the Rowe Fund helps students complete their education while at the same time fostering cultural diversity, friendship, and communication among the people of the Americas. The Organization of American States (OAS) does offer scholarships to competent individuals from Latin American and Caribbean countries. For more information on these scholarships, please visit the OAS website. Karen Ann Shopis-Fox Memorial Scholarship ctasla.org Scholarship applicants must be legal residents of the State of Connecticut and enrolled in an accredited landscape architecture program at the college or university level. Soros Fellowship for New Americans pdsoros.org New American is defined as a resident alien (who holds a Green Card), a naturalized citizen, or the child of two parents who are both naturalized citizens. Green Card holders must have had more than one IRS filing. The grants are for $20,000. Sweden American Foundation sweamfo.se This foundation gives about 40 fellowships for graduate/post-graduate studies each year to students who are Swedish citizens. Please visit their website for more details Urban Land Institute Fellowship uli.org The ULI Kenneth M. Good Graduate Student Fellowship offers eight $5,000 scholarships awarded to graduate students who intend to pursue real estate-related studies at a major North American university, including urban planning, architecture, business or business administration, geography with a real estate concentration, and real estate law or major. Student must be nominated for this scholarship by faculty. Vectorworks Design Scholarship vectorworks.net The Vectorworks Design Scholarship is open to undergraduate and graduate students enrolled in a design program for the upcoming school year. Wellesley College Fellowships wellesley.edu Wellesley College offers a number of fellowships and scholarships for graduate study or research that are open to graduating seniors and Wellesley alumnae. Two of these awards are open to women graduates of any American institution. Awards are usually made to applicants currently enrolled in or applying to graduate school for the following year. World Bank Graduate Scholarship Program worldbank.org Offers various scholarships, including the Joint Japan/World Bank Graduate Scholarship Program, for students who are citizens of countries other than the US. Potential to be used for GSD’s MUP program. Zimmer Gunsul Frasca Architectural Scholarship Fund zgf.com Applicants pursuing a Master’s Degree in Architecture are eligible for this scholarship. The Scholarship consists of a $10,000 stipend and the opportunity to intern at Zimmer Gunsul Frasca Architects LLP. Please visit their website for scholarship application and information. Prev Next Close Slideshow Back to top Harvard University Graduate School of Design © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Privacy Accessibility Digital Accessibility Maps Contact COVID-19 GSD API Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, exhibitions, and more. Email* Δ Version 1.11.26