By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Groups & Activities In this Section Student Organizations Greek Life Student Association University Union U100 Groups and Activities Sing with The Mandarins, Otto Tunes, or one of the five other student a cappella groups on campus. Grab a group of friends for a free movie screening courtesy of Orange After Dark. Join a fraternity or sorority, connect with your culture, get out into nature, write for a student-run publication, or fight to protect human or animal rights. With over 300 student organizations, you'll have plenty of opportunities to explore interests, pursue passions, get involved and engage with the Syracuse University community. Student Organizations Link Life and learning happen inside the classroom—and out! Syracuse University is home to more than 300 extracurricular groups, so you'll never run out of ways to live and learn. University 100 Link University 100 is a group of Syracuse University student ambassadors who represent our diverse community and share their love of Orange through campus tours and networking events. Greek Life Link Students join a fraternity or sorority to enhance their feeling of community and build ongoing connections. With more than 40 Greek organizations to choose from, it's easy to find one that matches your interests or goals. Student Association Link The Student Association (SA) is your undergraduate student government. SA serves as your representative voice and focuses on initiatives to help make your undergraduate experience the best it can be. Graduate Student Organization The Graduate Student Organization (GSO) is comprised of representatives from degree-granting programs and elected officials. The GSO also represents graduate students in the University Senate, allowing graduate students a voice in the larger issues of the University. University Union If you’re a fan of music festivals, movie screenings, comedians, notable speakers, and more, you’ll likely be a fan of University Union—the student organization that brings entertainment to the students of Syracuse. Office of Student Activities The Office of Student Activities is your gateway to social activities, programs, and events that are geared to enhance your education and fulfill your inner need to be active in the community. Not sure where to start? The Office of Student Activities is your gateway to social activities, programs, and events that not only fill up your calendar, but also enhance your education. Also of Interest Link Air Force & Army ROTC Link Syracuse University's ROTC program gives you a jump on your future by earning an officer’s commission and a college degree at the same time. Renée Crown University Honors Program Link With challenge comes reward—that’s the philosophy of the Renée Crown University Honors Program. Featured Stories Nothing Could Stop This Startup The Women’s Network has grown from its Syracuse roots to embrace high-achieving women across the country. When the Sun Goes Down... Orange After Dark activities provide students with fun adventures on campus and around Central New York. Join the Club Students pursue their interests and explore new ones through a multitude of campus organizations. Esports Community Flourishes at the Barnes Center at The Arch As the competitive gaming industry explodes worldwide, Syracuse University students enjoy the chance to relax and connect in a facility that welcomes gamers of every skill level. Shannon Hope Takes in the Full Student Experience The public relations major welcomes every opportunity to engage with her Syracuse University community—at home and abroad. Shannon Hope with the a cappella group Main Squeeze Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy