Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > January 25, 2022: COVID Update COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff January 25, 2022: COVID Update Dear Colleagues, The following information will support you in complying with both the booster mandate and, for selected staff, the flu vaccine mandate. Boosters Clinical and nonclinical personnel: Columbia University has mandated boosters for all faculty, staff, and students effective January 31, 2022. The deadline that NY State previously announced for their booster mandate for health care personnel who could potentially expose patients, residents, or other personnel to COVID-19 has now been announced as February 21, 2022. Since the Columbia University deadline precedes this, compliance for these health care workers is the earlier date of January 31, 2022. 51 W. 51st Street Booster Schedule — January Booster Session Opening Schedule through Connect Tueday, January 25, 1pm–4:30pm 1/21 at 8am Wednesday, January 26, 1pm–4:30pm 1/21 at 8am Friday, January 28, 9am–12pm 1/21 at 8am Friday, January 28, 1pm–4pm Employee Walk-Ins 51 W. 51st Street Booster Schedule — February Booster Session Opening Schedule through Connect Friday, February 4, 9am-4pm 1/28 at 8am; Employee walk-ins 1-4 Friday, February 11, 9am-4pm TBA; Employee walk-ins 1-4 Friday, February 18, 9am-4pm TBA; Employee walk-ins 1-4 Friday, February 25, 9am-4pm TBA; Employee walk-ins 1-4 Milstein Walk-In Booster Clinic A walk-in vaccine booster clinic for CUIMC and NYP employees and volunteers is available today through Friday, January 28, from 8 am-3:30pm. At the walk-in clinic, COVID-19 Pfizer boosters will be available to eligible individuals who are 18 or older and completed the initial COVID-19 vaccine(s) at least 5 months ago. All eligible employees and volunteers are highly encouraged to get the vaccine booster as soon as possible. The walk-in booster clinic is located in the Milstein Lobby in the Myrna Daniels Auditorium. Uploading Booster Documentation: The IOS (iPhone) version of the ReopenCU app has now been updated, and documentation can be submitted directly through the app. If your app is set to automatically update, no action is required. The new version of the app, 1.7, should now be on your phone If your app is not set to automatically update, follow the steps below to update your app: Go to the app store and search for “ReopenCU” Select the ReopenCU app, and then click “Update” Once the app updates, the “update” button will change to “open” Uploading your booster shot documentation can now be done either via ReopenCU website or via the ReopenCU app on your iPhone or Android. You can find instructions here and a helpful video here. For questions or assistance with the ReopenCU app, please submit a ticket to the CUIT Service Desk, email askcuit@columbia.edu, or call 212-854-1919. Flu Vaccines: Supporting our Public Health and Safety Goals Columbia University Irving Medical Center has long recognized that getting vaccinated against influenza (flu) is the best way to protect ourselves and our patients, coworkers, family, and friends. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends annual vaccination as the first and most important step in protecting against influenza for everyone 6 months of age and older. A flu vaccine provides individual health benefits, including keeping you from getting sick with flu, reducing the severity of your illness if you do get flu, and reducing your risk of a flu-associated hospitalization. Reminder: Flu vaccines are mandatory for faculty and staff working in NYP locations. Given the current COVID-19 surge, this year’s NYP Influenza Vaccination Program deadline for receiving the flu vaccine has been extended to February 11, 2022. How to get flu vaccine To receive the flu vaccine on campus, faculty and staff must present their CU ID and UNI to the nurse administering the vaccine. Workforce Health & Safety (WH&S) will be providing the seasonal flu vaccine free of charge to all faculty and staff at these locations and times (excluding holidays): CHONY Winter Garden (behind stage) – Monday to Friday; 7:30am to 3:30pm (closed 12pm-1pm) Harkness Pavilion, 1st Floor, Room 112 – Wednesday Evenings Only; 4pm to 6:30pm Milstein Heart Center, Myrna Daniels Auditorium - Monday to Friday; 7:30am to 3:30pm (closed 12pm-1pm) The high-dose flu vaccine (for those age 65 or older) is available at WHS, Harkness Pavilion, 1st floor, room 112 (Monday to Friday; 7:30am to 3:30pm). No appointment is necessary. Thank you and stay safe! Donna Lynne, DrPH Sr. Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC University COVID Director Magda Sobieszczyk, MD, MPH Chief of Infectious Diseases and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Melissa Stockwell, MD, MPH Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top