Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Secondary Nav Penn OLI Contact Us Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn OLI Courses & Programs For Faculty & Online Teams For Penn Students About Drawer Menu Penn OLI Courses & Programs Explore Back to main menu Search Offerings Learner Questions For Faculty & Online Teams Explore Back to main menu How to Create Vital Online Communities Faculty & Online Teams Questions Contact Us For Penn Students About Explore Back to main menu OLI Team Faculty Advisory Committee Explore Back to main menu Working Groups OLI News FAQs Contact Us Search Group Created with Sketch. Learner Questions Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn OLI Courses & Programs Explore Back to main menu Search Offerings Learner Questions For Faculty & Online Teams Explore Back to main menu How to Create Vital Online Communities Faculty & Online Teams Questions Contact Us For Penn Students About Explore Back to main menu OLI Team Faculty Advisory Committee Explore Back to main menu Working Groups OLI News FAQs Contact Us From technical difficulties to figuring out how much courses can cost, this Frequently Asked Questions list focuses on the types of questions you might have as a student or learner. Can’t find an answer to your question? Get in touch with the Online Learning Initiative team. I’m taking a course in Coursera or edX. What can I do with the certificate? Certificates from Coursera or edX hold no academic credit but they can help you demonstrate competency in a specific skill or topic to employers and others. Many people add their Coursera or edX certificates to LinkedIn. How much does it cost to take a non-credit Penn course through Coursera or edX? The cost varies, though a certificate is available for purchase in most courses. Some courses have a free or audit option that allows for full access to the course while others require enrollment in a certificate track for full access. Check the home page for the course or program you’re interested in. I’m not ready to pay for my course. Can I enroll for free and decide to pay later? It’s free to enroll in a course but Coursera and edX handle payment for certificates differently. I’m a high school student. Can I take an online course at Penn? Anyone over the age of 13 can enroll in Penn’s non-credit Coursera and edX courses. For additional options, explore Penn’s College of Liberal & Professional Studies site. Can Penn alumni, current students, or staff take Coursera or edX courses for free? Currently, Penn alumni, current students, or staff do not have free access to these courses. Penn alumni may wish to participate in the Alumni Exclusive Online Course, available for a special alumni price. Penn staff may wish to check with their department to explore the possibility of using professional development funds to cover the course cost. Can Penn students substitute a MOOC (massive open online course) or XSeries /Specialization for a department offering? Since these options are non-credit, they are not interchangeable with for-credit online courses even if the subject matter is similar. I have to travel while I’m taking a course. What are my options? Non-credit, self-paced courses have different requirements than for-credit online courses. Carefully review the established course requirements. I’m interested in taking a course from the Wharton School. What are my options? Check out Wharton Online’s offerings to explore the options and review their Frequently Asked Questions for addition information. Contact the Wharton Online team with questions you might have about the Wharton School’s courses or programs. I’m interested in an earning an online degree at Penn. What are my options? Use our course search to find specific programs. I’m having technical difficulties within my course, can you help? Please reach out to the teaching staff within your course through the discussion forum, or, see each platform’s help centers: Coursera’s Learner Help Center and edX’s Student FAQs both have a host of helpful answers. If I am a Penn student and I sign up for an open online course, do Penn privacy policies apply? No. Coursera and edX‘s privacy policies provide the terms and protections in place. See All FAQs FAQs OLI News Give Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Van Pelt-Dietrich Library 3420 Walnut St Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-1598 Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Contact Us Accessibility Office of the Provost