Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites Community Engagement Membership Alumni Weekend Alumni Awards News Events About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Alumni Relations Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Alumni Relations Membership Membership Become a Member Membership Rates Student Membership Rate Alumni Weekend Alumni Weekend Class Reunion Events Visitor Info Future Reunion Dates Contact Us Alumni Awards Alumni Awards Submit a Nomination 2022 Alumni Award Recipients Past Award Recipients News News Class Notes Submit Your Class Notes Alumni Spotlight Alumni Authors Alumni Newsletter Events Events Member Appreciation Week About About Staff Listing Alumni Boards Policies New membership offer! New KUMC grads can now receive a 1-year membership at a reduced rate. Meet our 2022 Alumni Awards recipients and send your congrats! Join a community of committed alumni supporters. Become a member of the KU Medical Center Alumni Association. Pause Play BECOME A MEMBER SHARE A CLASS NOTE 2022 ALUMNI AWARDS Our Mission The KU Medical Center Office of Alumni Relations works to create, foster and enhance relationships among KU Medical Center alumni, students and friends by promoting awareness and support for activities that enhance education, research and service - both at the University and across the great state of Kansas. Now offering New Grad Membership New graduates can now receive a one-year individual membership in the KU Medical Center Alumni Association at a discounted price for $20. Individuals who graduated or will graduate between May 2021 and May 2022 are currently eligible for the New Grad Membership. Become a member News and Events Explore the latest news and upcoming events from KU Medical Center Alumni Association! Congratulations to the 2022 Alumni Award honorees! Send your congrats 2022 Alumni Awards Join a community of committed alumni supporters. Become a Member Membership Classmates would love to hear about weddings, promotions, retirements, and other milestones. Share Now Class Notes Stay Connected Join or renew your membership online Submit a class note Follow us on Facebook, Instagram and LinkedIn Become a board member KU Mentoring Connecting to a worldwide network of fellow Jayhawks Mentoring.ku.edu Alumni Relations University of Kansas Medical Center Alumni Relations 3901 Rainbow Blvd. Mailstop 2017 Kansas City, KS 66160 913-588-1255 Facebook Instagram Linkedin YouTube School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Medicine-Wichita School of Medicine-Salina School of Nursing School of Nursing-Salina Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.