Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Health and Medicine Date March 1, 2021 2021-03-01 Media Contact News Staff [email protected] 401-863-2476 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Impact: Research at Brown This story is from Impact: Research at Brown, Brown’s magazine devoted to the University’s research. More Stories from IMPACT For more stories... ...of discovery and scholarship, and of our commitment to making a difference in the world view the full issue. View the PDF Health experts at Brown become national voices in battle against COVID-19 By Noel Rubinton for IMPACT: Research at Brown Throughout the chaos and confusion of the COVID-19 pandemic, Drs. Ashish Jha and Megan Ranney offered clear, concise commentary to households nationwide. Though many things changed during the course of the pandemic, Ashish Jha, left, and Megan Ranney remained steadfast in their belief that clear communication and a better understanding of public health would lead to improved conditions. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — During the COVID-19 pandemic, Dr. Ashish Jha and Dr. Megan Ranney have appeared as expert guests on hundreds of television and radio programs, given interviews for hundreds more major newspaper and online articles, and written widely discussed commentary pieces. They have become highly recognized faces of Brown. Jha was named Brown’s new dean of the School of Public Health in February 2020, as COVID-19 was emerging. While not due to start until Sept. 1, Jha spent the spring and summer deeply involved in advising Brown and other groups around the world, along with his roles as director of Harvard’s Global Health Institute, internist at the VA Boston Healthcare System, and professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School. Ranney, an associate professor of emergency medicine at the Warren Alpert Medical School and emergency physician at Rhode Island Hospital, is the inaugural director of the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health. During the pandemic, she cofounded Get Us PPE, a national group helping frontline health care workers and others obtain needed personal protective equipment. In this Q&A, the two health experts discuss their public stances on the pandemic and how proper education and research can save lives. Q: During COVID, what have you learned about the impact of research at Brown and beyond? MEGAN RANNEY: COVID-19 has accelerated our ability to translate what is done within the University’s metaphorical walls into the real world. I’ve always known that my colleagues here are doing really cool, groundbreaking research, but COVID-19 has called on researchers to step outside their comfort zone, and has also created new links between our researchers and the public. ASHISH JHA: If we go back to January, we knew nothing about this virus. And then of course we had no therapies, we had no vaccine. We were sitting ducks. In an extraordinarily short time, we have learned a ton about whom it affects, how it affects them, what we can do to prevent it. We have essentially decoded a disease that none of us knew about. While there is much work ahead, the whole biomedical community needs to be applauded for the work that has been done. Q: Why have you made it such a priority to speak publicly about COVID? JHA: It started as an educational effort. When the pandemic really got going, I found that people were generally confused about what was happening. I found there was hunger for fact-based analysis. In a time of great anxiety and confusion, engaging with the public was a really important part of public health leadership and helping people understand the moment they were in, helping them separate fact from fiction. RANNEY: I love being a clinician, and I love being a researcher. But the drive behind all of that is the desire to make the world a better place. It was clear early in COVID that there was a deficit of voices translating science into terms that individuals and communities across America could use. We were lucky to have the opportunity to take our knowledge, observations, and collective insights and present them to the public in ways that could shift behavior, policy or philanthropy. Q: During this period, what have you learned about the value of having medical schools and schools of public health? JHA: Throughout history, human populations have been decimated by disease outbreaks. And the reason why this one, as awful as it has been, will not decimate the human population is because of biomedical science and public health science. They are a central pillar for how we generate knowledge about the natural world and how we form the basis for policy-making and decision-making. RANNEY: A great medical school and a great school of public health, particularly when they work together, can serve as rational voices to inform the development or modification of effective health systems. Another important value is creating a work force of the future. By training our students in ways that grow empathy, inquisitiveness and commitment to data — and by intentionally growing a diverse work force that looks like the communities we serve — we can be both on-the-ground and high-level leaders of the work that needs to be done. Tags COVID-19 School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School Related news: Health and Medicine Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers May 23, 2022 Elizabeth Samuels, an assistant professor at the Warren Alpert Medical School, and medical student Aneeqah Naeem argued for federal action supporting harm reduction centers such as those authorized in Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers Health and Medicine In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty May 16, 2022 Adriel Barrios-Anderson, who served as a student orator upon earning his bachelor’s degree from Brown in 2017, hopes to inspire newly minted M.D.s to feel confident about embracing the uncertainty of the future. Read Article Open details for In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty Health and Medicine ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition May 3, 2022 The Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2024 celebrated together at an in-person white coat ceremony that was held two years later than usual, but still felt timely. Read Article Open details for ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition Impact: Research at Brown This story is from Impact: Research at Brown, Brown’s magazine devoted to the University’s research. More Stories from IMPACT For more stories... ...of discovery and scholarship, and of our commitment to making a difference in the world view the full issue. View the PDF Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Health experts at Brown become national voices in battle against COVID-19 Open details for Health experts at Brown become national voices in battle against COVID-19 Bookmark this Page