Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Educational Psychology & Research Faculty and Staff Research Clinical Services Grants & Contracts Alumni & Friends Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact EDPR Menu About EDPR Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate EDPR minorM.S.Online M.S.Ph.D.Graduate Certificate in Qualitative ResearchGraduate Certificate in Quantitative Research Courses Faculty News Student Resources Admissions ApplyInternational StudentsGraduate AssistantshipsGraduate Catalog View our brochure! Like us on Facebook! Frequently Asked Questions Take Action Apply Now! Student Organizations in CEPR Department News Contact Us Home Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research EDPR CEPR News Student, Alumni, & Faculty News CONGRATULATIONS to Dr. Denise Winsor, recipient of the 2018 College of Educations's Outstanding Service Award, and to Dr. Chia-Chen Yang, recipient of the the 2018 College of Educations's Outstanding Teaching Award. Jennifer Mueller, Administrative Associate I in the CEPR office, was awarded the Outstanding Staff Award, and Dr. Doug Strohmer, a professor in the CEPR department, was presented with the Earl Crader Professor of Education Award. These were made at the annual CoE Faculty Awards Luncheon on April 26, 2018. Our faculty, current students, and recent graduates are presenting at several conferences this spring. Click here for a list! Dr. Yonghong Jade Xu (faculty member and coordinator, Ed Research) earned a promotion to Professor during the Spring 2018 Tenure and Promotion session. Congrats, Dr. Xu! Dr. Susan Nordstrom and O. Gustavo Plascencia (Memphis College of Art) were awarded a City of Memphis MLK50 grant for their cross-disciplinary and cross-institutional project "(dis)placed bodies." Congratulations to EDPR grad students Sean Holden and Yasuko Kanamori! Sean has been selected as the Outstanding Graduate Student in Educational Psychology for 2018, and Yasuko is the Outstanding Graduate Student in Educational Research for 2018. Dr. Margie Stevens (Ed Research), Dr. Scotty Houston (Ed Research), and Dr. James Ford (Ed Psych) were awarded their Ph.D. degrees at the 2018 Fall Convocation in December. Melynda Whitwell and Mahbubal Hasan received their Master's degrees in December 2018! The Annual Journal of Youth and Adolescence 2017 Emerging Scholar Best Article Award was given to Dr. Chia-chen Yang (Ed Psych) for her paper "Online Self-Presentation on Facebook and Self Development during the College Transition," co-authored with Dr. B. Bradford Brown. See more at http://www.springer.com/psychology/child+%26+school+psychology/journal/10964/PS2?detailsPage=societies Eric Hosman was awarded a Ph.D. degree in August 2018. Ashely Payne (Ed Psych) and Anne Walton Garrison (Ed Research) earned the Outstanding Graduate Student awards for 2017-18. Dr. Andrea LaDoris Davis and Dr. Karen Westerman Kitchens were hooded at the Fall Convocation of the 105th Commencement on Sunday, December 11, 2016. Congratulations to Drs. Davis and Kitchens! Welcome to our new Department Chair, Dr. Steven West! Dr. West comes from the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and the Center for Rehabilitation Science and Engineering at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, Virginia. He has a Ph.D., Human in Development and Family Studies, with a specialization in the development of drug abuse and addiction and a minor in risk taking) from Texas Tech University; an M. S. in Rehabilitation Counseling. with an emphasis in alcohol and drug abuse treatment) from the University of Tennessee; and a B. A. in Psychology from the University of Tennessee. Congrats to Dr. Rashunda Stitt (Ph.D., 2014) on her position as Assistant Professor at Winston-Salem State University! CONGRATULATIONS to our new graduates Holly Staggs (MS), Sara Benson (MS), Beja Tan (MS), Jessika Boles (Ph.D.), and Kathi Barth (Ph.D.). The University of Memphis was welcomed as an invited member to the Southwest Consortium for Innovation in Psychology in Education (SCIPIE). EDPR students Ashley Payne, Eric Hosman, and Hasan Mahbubul presented their work in Personal Epistemology at the conference. Dr. Chia-Chen Yang received the Faculty Award of Excellence in Research and Scholarship from the College of Education at the May 2016 Spring Faculty Meeting. Doctoral student Hui Zhang received the EDPR Student Research Award for the 2016-17 academic year. Dr. Chris Mueller is a co-PI and Program Data Manager for the Gates grant in the Department of Instruction, Curriculum, and Leadership at the UofM. Dr. Jade Xu is Principal Investigator of Diversity in law schools and the legal profession: A theoretically guided inquiry about gender and racial differences in persistence and valuation, a grant funded by the Access Group/ Association for Institutional Research (AIR) Research Fellows Program. Drs. Harrell-Williams and Mueller were awarded a 2015 Strengthening Communities Grant to work with the educational arm of the Mississippi River Corridor-Tennessee, known as the Mid-South Outdoor Recreation and Education. The project involves developing and evaluating educational outings for 6th graders at the University of Memphis Biological Research Station at Shelby Forest. Dr. Denise Winsor, in conjunction with Douglass Elementary, was awarded the Arts Builds Communities Grant through the Tennessee Arts Commission. This project is a collaborative art and history after-school project to engage students and parents. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/3/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.