Language Program Management Certificate | Teachers College Columbia University Skip to content Skip to main navigation TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Skip to content Home About Us Programs Certificates Custom Programs Contact Us Menu Skip to content Continuing Professional Studies Programs Language Program Management Certificate Language Program Management Certificate January 9, 2023 - May 21, 2023 This program is designed to train language professionals to develop, manage, and evaluate language programs. The four online core courses introduce aspects of curriculum development, program evaluation and assessment, administration and operations, as well as teacher development and supervision. 2023 Certificate Course Schedule: Language Program Administration and Operations (5 weeks) - January 9 - February 12, 2023 Teacher Development and Supervision (3 weeks) - February 20 - March 12, 2023 Language Program Curriculum Development and Review (5 weeks) - March 20 - April 23, 2023 Language Program Accreditation, Assessment, and Accountability (3 weeks) - May 1 - May 21, 2023 (Elective) Language Program Marketing and Student Recruitment (3 weeks) - May 30 - June 18, 2023 Tuition for 4 core courses: $3,000 Tuition for 4 core courses and the elective course: $3,600 This program has rolling admissions. Continuing Education Units (CEUs) awarded: 9.6 CEUs For any questions regarding this program, please feel free to contact us at LPM@tc.columbia.edu. Apply Here Request Info Overview Program Objectives Courses Faculty Admissions Testimonial Overview Non-degree 5 months to complete Fully online/asynchronous, with few synchronous features 4 required core courses 1 elective course Internship/training opportunity at the Community Language Program, Columbia University Objectives and Learning Outcomes Upon completion of the LPM Certificate Program, students will be able to demonstrate professional level competencies to: Strategically plan and administer program operations and resources, marketing and recruitment, and transition to change. Effectively supervise and evaluate teachers’ performance and promote their professional development Plan, design, and evaluate a language program curriculum. Assess and manage curriculum development costs, risks, and change, and ensure stakeholders’ engagement in the curriculum reform. Understand and ensure effective classroom-based assessment and program evaluation that promote quality instruction. Manage program accreditation to improve the quality of language teaching and administration through accepted standards. Courses Course I: Language program administration and operations This course is designed to provide a theoretical and practical introduction to aspects of language program management. Through experiential training and case study analysis it seeks to develop an understanding of and a level of engagement with key issues such as strategic planning and the day-to-day administration of operational financial and human resources. Also, the course offers a hands-on exploration of current marketing strategies, program evaluation tools and designs, and approaches to effective institutional change, with direct applications to various program management contexts. Course II: Teacher development and supervision This course explores key issues in developing, supervising, and motivating a community of teaching professionals. It aims to build an understanding of what supervision entails in different teaching-and-learning contexts, and the roles and tasks of a supervisor. Also, the course offers hands-on experience working with various approaches to supervisory observations as well as planning and structuring teachers’ professional development. Course III: Language program curriculum development and review This course introduces students to the fundamental issues and practices concerning curriculum development, implementation, and review. Students will gain a comprehensive understanding of the different procedures that are essential for curriculum design, such as identifying learning needs, setting program goals, determining appropriate course syllabi and instructional methods, and assessing learning outcomes. In addition, the course will also provide an overview of the varying approaches to evaluating and revising curriculum in order to maintain the quality and success of a language program. Course IV: Language program accreditation, assessment, and accountability This course introduces students to the concepts and practices of accreditation, quality review, and accountability in language programs. The purpose, challenges, and benefits of accreditation will be discussed, and students will examine a selected set of accreditation standards to consider how these can be met. Students will gain insight into how accreditation agencies ensure accountability, and they will identify essential components and processes of a review plan for language programs. Elective Course: Language Program Marketing and Student Recruitment This course examines the fundamentals of marketing and student recruitment through the lens of native language program contexts. Drawing from the instructor’s experiences and the greater field of higher education studies, the six modules explore theories and practices for applicable strategic enrollment planning. Topics include market research, marketing audits, branding, program differentiation, relationship management tools, advertising, transaction and relational communication campaigns, and partnership building with stakeholders, both internal and external. Discussions and resources take into account current trends, model practices, and anticipating a selective enrollment rebound and other future market changes, particularly in a COVID-19 conscious world. NOTE: While content of each of the LPM courses relates to language teaching organizations in general, illustrations will be mostly pulled from ESL/EFL contexts. Faculty Lauren Wyner is currently the Humanities Academic Specialist for Catapult Learning where she plans, implements, trains, directs, and maintains the Archdiocese of New York’s ELA and Social Studies curricula, digital programs, and teacher training. After studying English and Anthropology as an undergraduate student, Lauren earned a Master of Arts in TESOL and Applied Linguistics from Teachers College at Columbia University where she focused on crucial roles of pragmatics, language use, and policy in educational settings all over the world. While at Teachers College, Lauren taught at and managed the Community Language Program, before then managing the graduate program in Bilingual/Bicultural Education where she developed a new master’s program in Bilingual Special Education leading to triple NYSED certification. Lauren also worked in the Student Academic Consulting Center at Baruch College where she developed and delivered workshops on sociocultural and sociolinguistic appropriateness in higher education and professional environments. Lauren then ran the Brooklyn School of Languages for several years where she designed, assessed, and supervised all curricular and administrative program aspects, in addition to both advising international students and developing and implementing a teacher training program. Having worked as a teacher, curriculum developer, and program manager of humanities and English as a Second Language courses for all ages both domestically and abroad for over a decade, Lauren is excited to bring her wealth of knowledge and experiences back to Teachers College. Nancy Boblett, Ed.D. is an Adjunct Assistant Professor in the TESOL and Applied Linguistics program at Teachers College, Columbia University and in the Teaching and Curriculum program at Hunter College, City University of New York. At Teachers College, Nancy teaches Classroom Practices and the Integrated Skills, Speaking, and Reading Practica, and at Hunter College, she teaches the Teaching Academic English for Adults Practicum and Teaching Oral Skills. She holds an Ed.D. in Applied Linguistics with a specialization in language in use from Teachers College, an M.A. in TESOL from the University of Illinois, an M.A. in Hispanic Linguistics from the University of Minnesota, and a B.A. in Spanish from the University of Minnesota. Nancy has taught Spanish, general ESL, English for Academic purposes (EAP) and Business ESL (EBP) courses at all proficiency levels for over 40 years in the U.S. and Spain. She has been a teacher trainer and supervisor for the last 10 years at Teachers College and Hunter College in both M.A. TESOL/Applied Linguistics programs and TESOL Certificate programs. She also leads workshops for international students at Teachers College, the Columbia University Students and Scholars Office, the Columbia University Office of Post-doctoral Affairs, and the College of Dental Medicine at Columbia University. She has published articles and book chapters on topics related to teacher training and language classroom discourse. Her research interests include teacher education, teacher expertise, and classroom discourse. Tara E. Tarpey is a Clinical Assistant Professor and Program Coordinator for the English Language Institute at New York University. She has been working in the fields of English, language education, and teaching training since 2001, and has taught in-person, synchronous, and asynchronous courses for all levels and language skills, with a specialization in advanced writing, critical thinking, and research skills. Tara has been published in a number of professional journals, including Language and Information Society, Discourse Studies, and The Language Teacher, and serves on the review board for the NYS TESOL Journal. She has a BA in English from Vassar College; an MA in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages from Teachers College, Columbia University; and an EdM in Applied Linguistics from Teachers College, Columbia University. Her professional interests include discourse analysis, composition and rhetoric, educational technology, assessment, and curriculum development. Michael Perrone, Ed.D., is a Clinical Professor at Queens College, City University of New York, where he oversees the field experience for all Elementary (1st to 6th grade) and Early Childhood (B-2nd grade) undergraduate and graduate students. He received his doctorate from Teachers College, Columbia University, with a concentration in assessment within Applied Linguistics, after earning his MA in TESOL from Hunter College, CUNY and his MSW from Columbia University. Dr. Perrone has over 20 years of experience as a language educator, having taught children as well as adults. He has served as an adjunct lecturer at Teachers College, Columbia University, Hunter College, and the New School, and has taught courses at the graduate and undergraduate level in second language assessment and methodology, bilingualism, and cultural diversity in the elementary classroom. An experienced program manager, he oversaw a highly successful adult education program in Washington Heights for over 10 years—a program which served over 900 students annually and which was ranked by NYSED as the number one adult education program in NYS for two consecutive years. Dr. Perrone has published articles in second language assessment and pedagogy. George F. Kacenga, PhD, has been a champion for the value of international higher education for over twenty-years. He is currently the AVP of University Partnerships with M Square Media. Kacenga has served as a Senior International Officer (SIO) working with intensive English programs, international recruitment, immigration, education abroad, and global partnerships throughout a career that includes positions with public, private, and highly ranked academic institutions. Also a Fulbright Administrator Award recipient, Kacenga holds a Masters in Curriculum and Instruction, and a PhD from the University of Pittsburgh in Social and Comparative Analysis in Education. His expertise and reputation have been further honed through engagement as a community member, including professional roles and participation in AIRC (Past-President), NAFSA, TAICEP, NACAC, AACRAO, AIEA, and FEA. Admissions When can I apply? This program has rolling admissions. so please apply at any time to be considered for the nearest admissions cycle. Who can apply? Domestic and international MA graduates in TESOL, TESL, Applied Linguistics, or equivalent Students with a BA in a foreign language or related Language program administrators/managers Language teachers with 4 or more years of language teaching experience, or by permission Application Requirements: In order to be considered for admission in the Language Program Management Certificate Program, you need to apply online. The application process involves the following steps: Complete the online application form Upload a copy of your most recent academic degree transcript (e.g., Bachelor’s, Master’s, or Doctoral). Upon admission, the official transcript will need to be sent to the LPM office before the LPM registration date. Upload a current resume or CV Submit a Personal Statement (minimum 500 words). Pay the non-refundable application fee ($50 for domestic applicants; $100 for international applicants) Admission Decision & Notification: Admission decisions will be made upon receipt and review of all of the above documents. All applicants will be officially notified about admission decisions by email. Only complete applications will be considered. Upon admission, the official transcript will need to be sent to the LPM office before the LPM registration date. Official transcript must be sent to: Language Program Management Certificate Program Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street, Box 60 Horace Mann Building, Room 46E New York, NY 10027-6696 If you have further questions, please feel free to contact us at LPM@tc.columbia.edu Apply Here Payment and Refunds Payment Program tuition for four core courses is $3,000. Program tuition for four core courses AND the elective course is $3,600. Tuition must be paid by the program registration deadline. Payment is submitted online by credit card. Students should plan to spend approximately $150 on books and supplies. Pay Tuition Here Refunds You are advised to review the Language Program Management Certificate Program refund policy below before you submit the program tuition payment. Please note that application fees are non-refundable. Refund Deadline: The refund deadline is 7 days after the program start date. Refunds will NOT be granted after the refund deadline. Early Refund Request: If you request a refund more than 7 days prior to the program start date, you will receive a full refund. To make an early refund request, the student must email lpm@tc.columbia.edu and include the reason for cancellation. Late Refund Request: Refund requests made between 7 days prior to program start date and the refund deadline (i.e., 7 days after the program start date) will be subject to a $200 cancellation fee. To request a refund during the late refund request period, the student must email lpm@tc.columbia.edu and include the reason for cancellation. Refunds will NOT be granted after the refund deadline, which is 7 days after the first day of the Program. For questions about our refund policy, please contact our office at lpm@tc.columbia.edu LPM Testimonials “ The LPM was an eye-opening experience for me. I gained a clearer focus on ways that I can be more effective at strategically managing my Arabic language program. I would strongly recommend this program to anybody who’s interested in becoming a foreign language program administrator or anyone who wants to hone their skills and keeping in touch with best practices in language management. There is no doubt that the Teacher College LPM is a preeminent program. There is not any equivalent or parallel to this program. „ Abeer Al-Mohsen “ It was a privilege to be part of the LPM program. As a language teacher, the program allowed me to develop my professional skills and improve my understanding related to program operations, curriculum, supervision, and evaluation. I cannot thank the instructors enough for sharing their expertise and guidance in the program. „ Karina Bustamante “ LMP was a fantastic experience! The teachers, the resources, and the students inspired me to learn, think and reflect on my practice. The online format was very engaging, and it was hard to put the work down. Almost like an amazing book, although interactive! „ Amparo Stetina “ I had high expectations coming into the LPM certificate program, and it surpassed those expectations. For me, the courses were challenging and inspiring, greatly improving my awareness of both scholarship and practice. The instructors make the learning experience practical and personal, selecting content and setting assignments that push you to reflect on issues and opportunities in your own context. They provide thoughtful feedback to help you develop the knowledge and skills you need to address those issues with confidence. The courses connect you with peers in institutions around the world, providing inspiration and opportunities to go further: to learn, explore topics, and reflect on shared challenges. All in all, the LPM certificate has made me better prepared to manage operations, support my colleagues, and develop a world-class teaching program that satisfies the needs of learners. „ Daniel Pell “ The LPM program was a fantastic opportunity to gain foundational knowledge in program management and develop skills that I could immediately put into practice to serve my institution. It was a pleasure and a privilege to interact with and learn from such kind, experienced, and talented professionals from a diverse range of backgrounds. „ Jennifer Brown “ I feel honored to be part of the first Language Program Management cohort. Extremely grateful for the opportunity to learn from such knowledgeable, skillful, and accomplished professors. I also appreciate learning from fellow professionals from all over the world. The wealth of knowledge and experience from this course is invaluable. The program is nicely structured and I highly recommend it to seasoned and novice administrators. „ Ziba-Rezai Sepasi Add to Google Calendar Add to iCal Upcoming LPM Events Application Deadline November 23, 2022 Tuition Payment (Registration) Deadline December 7, 2022 Program Orientation January 6, 2023 Program Start Date January 9, 2023 LPM Online Info Sessions Attend an info session to learn more about the LPM Program. March 15 / April 13 / July 7 / August 16 / October 5, 2022 Sign up here LPM Online Open House Attend the open house to learn more about the Program and meet faculty, staff, and alumni. November 3, 2022 Sign up here Continuing Professional Studies Box 99, 525 West 120th Street New York, New York 10027-6696 212-678-4142 cps@tc.columbia.edu Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027.