Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Climate School Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home The School Education Research News Events People Giving Shop Leadership Careers COVID-19 Resources Privacy Policy Explore All Programs MA Climate + Society Non-Degree Programs Educator Training Pre-College Programs Professional Learning Undergraduate Research Experiences Office of Research Pre-Award Unit Research Partners Research Projects Columbia Climate School You are here: Home Research Research Partners Research Partners Bringing together high-impact centers, institutes, and initiatives, we support a continuum of research, from basic discovery to societal solutions. Research Units Advanced Consortium on Cooperation, Conflict, and Complexity (AC4) AC4 works to enable and support integrative research and practice on sustainable peace, constructive conflict engagement, and sustainable development. Center for Climate Systems Research (CCSR) CCSR performs cutting-edge research in the earth, climate, and sustainability sciences to lead efforts with diverse stakeholders to mitigate and adapt to a changing climate. Center for International Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN) CIESIN specializes in data/information management, spatial data integration/training, and interdisciplinary research on human interactions in the environment. Center for Sustainable Development (CSD) CSD helps countries and communities achieve sustainable development by translating the Sustainable Development Goals into meaningful policies and solutions. Center for Sustainable Urban Development (CSUD) CUSD addresses critical urban sustainability, equity, and planning issues through a humanistic, multi-disciplinary, collaborative approach based on strategic systems thinking. Climate Science, Awareness and Solutions (CSAS) CSAS is working to “connect the dots” from advancing basic climate science to promoting public awareness to advocating policy actions. Columbia Water Center (CWC) CWC aims to design sustainable water management and development models that can be implemented on local, regional, and global levels. The Earth Institute The Earth Institute is a multi-disciplinary community working to address the complex issues facing the planet and its inhabitants, with a focus on the knowledge required to achieve sustainability. International Research Institute for Climate and Society (IRI) IRI enhances capability to anticipate and manage the impacts of climate to improve human welfare and the environment through applied research, education, and capacity building. Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (LDEO) LDEO seeks fundamental knowledge about the origin, evolution, and future of the natural world. Lenfest Center for Sustainable Energy (LCSE) LCSE develops innovative technology to ensure a sufficient supply of environmentally sustainable energy for all humanity. National Center for Disaster Preparedness (NCDP) NCDP works to understand and improve the nation’s capacity to prepare for, respond to, and recover from disasters. Quadracci Sustainable Engineering Lab Using engineering to help address development issues, the lab utilizes software solutions to help make development planning smarter and to improve the delivery of critical services. Research Program on Sustainability Policy and Management The program’s research informs sustainability decision-making, helps overcome barriers, and hastens the adoption of supportive policy. Affiliates and Consortia Center for Earth Ethics The center envisions a world where value is measured according to the sustained well-being of all people and our planet. Center for Environmental Economics and Policy (CEEP) CEEP researches the causes, consequences, and policies that can prevent and reverse environmental change to ensure sustainable development. Center for Resilient Cities and Landscapes CRCL uses planning and design to help communities and ecosystems adapt to the pressures of urbanization, inequality, and climate uncertainty. Center for Science and Society The center explores the intersection of science and society through innovative interdisciplinary methods. Center for Sustainable Futures (CSF) CSF envisions a regenerative world in which we achieve a balance between planet, people, and prosperity. Center for the Study of Social Difference (CSSD) CSSD supports collaborative projects that address gender, race, sexuality, and other forms of inequality to foster ethical and progressive social change. Center on Global Energy Policy (CGEP) CGEP advances smart, actionable, and evidence-based energy and climate solutions through research, education, and dialogue. Columbia Center on Sustainable Investment (CCSI) CCSI aligns investment with sustainable development to improve human well-being, reduce inequality, and operate within safe planetary boundaries. Columbia Electrochemical Energy Center (CEEC) CEEC focuses on strategies to address energy storage and conversion using batteries, fuel cells, and electrolyzers in transformative ways. NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies (GISS) A key objective of NASA GISS research is prediction of atmospheric and climate changes in the 21st century. Sabin Center for Climate Change Law The center develops legal techniques to fight climate change, trains students and lawyers in their use, and provides resources on key topics in climate change law and regulation. globe icon See All Research Units, Affiliates, and Consortia Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close