COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Finance, Major MajorFinance All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Finance, Real Estate and Decision Sciences The Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in finance from Wichita State's Barton School of Business combines its AACSB-accredited program with the unmatched opportunities for applied learning and internships found in Kansas' largest city. You'll be eligible to compete for some of the state's largest business scholarships. And you can build a professional resume and make the connections that lead to your dream career. Learn how finance is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the Barton School of Business, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program High-tech trading center brings Stock Market to life There's a big difference between listening to a finance professor talk about how markets work and being able to see those markets work in real time. The Koch Global Trading Center in Clinton Hall allows you to participate in real-time financial simulations based on the Stock Market. The center features a 60-foot long digital financial ticker that displays live market data. You'll be prepared with the knowledge and skills to immediately enter the workforce upon graduation. Curriculum You'll start by studying the fundamentals of finance—from accounting to investments. You'll also choose from advanced courses, based on your interests and career goals, in addition to completing core business courses. The BBA in finance degree also offers a real-estate emphasis (the only one found at a Kansas regents' university) for students interested in commercial banking, real estate asset management, real estate investment analysis or corporate real estate management. View the curriculum Careers A business degree in finance from Wichita State will give you the knowledge and skills needed for a variety of high-paying finance-related careers, such as: Chief executive Financial manager Financial and credit analyst Personal financial advisor Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Accounting Accounting (Minor) Economics Economics (Minor) General Business Business - General (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©