Skip to Content Search Bar Search UTSA Today myUTSA Search UTSA About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Giving Athletics Alumni Locations Bold Success Lives Here From championships to record enrollment and research, UTSA has upward momentum See our path forward Celebrate Asian/Pacific Islander Month Join us as we recognize the many strengths, contributions and traditions of AAPI communities View upcoming events Come visit us! Join us for an upcoming campus tour and see what UTSA can offer you Sign up today Apply for Fall 2022 Our fall 2022 admissions deadline for freshmen and international students is June 1. Complete your application today! Graduate Research Excellence As an R1 institution, UTSA's research-based master’s and doctoral programs put you on the cutting edge of your chosen field Explore Graduate Programs Future Roadrunners Apply for Undergrads Visit for Undergrads Explore Majors for Undergrads The Graduate School Apply for Graduates Visit for Graduates Explore Majors for Graduates UTSA Online Apply for Online Programs for Online What's new with UTSA? Read more stories Class of 2022: Reggie Jacob on the fast track to solving health challenges Reggie graduated with his B.S. in 2020, and has now achieved a master's degree thanks UTSA's VIP Graduate Admission Program Read more about Reggie Class of 2022: Grad Shaquan David headed to top residency program Newly graduated with his doctoral degree in physics, Shaquan is headed to one of the nation’s top residency programs at the Mayo Clinic Read more about Shaquan Class of 2022: Graduate Hannah Hardee finds her fit in cybersecurity Following her passions for computers and forensics, Hannah has landed a position as an associate technical analyst in cybersecurity with Southwest Airlines Read more about Hannah September 15 to October 15Hispanic Heritage Month Celebrate the cultures and contributions of our Hispanic students, families, and community! See schedule of events Roadrunner Roadmap Get the latest COVID-related campus updates and learn how to protect yourself and others! Visit the Roadmap DeterminedStudent success comes first 34,734 student enrollment 45% first-generation college students 1 in 5 UTSA undergrads go on to grad school 75% undergrads receiving financial aid Being around a group of people that not only value their education but also being the best at what they do pushed me to go outside my comfort zone and strive to be better than I was before. –Nehemiah Jackson, '21' UTSA prepares students for the careers of today and tomorrow, equipping them with the tools they need to change the world. See how students succeed at UTSA #BirdsUp Social media is a great place to discover UTSA student stories, explore our vibrant campuses, and connect with the Roadrunner family. Join the conversation using the hashtags #BirdsUp and #UTSAGrad22. @UTSA Facebook @UTSA Twitter @UTSA YouTube @UTSA LinkedIn @UTSA Instagram @UTSA @UTSAalumni @UTSAalumni @UTSAalumni FamiliaA Hispanic thriving university UTSA’s federal designation as a Hispanic Serving Institution (HSI) is only one part of our story. We are taking bold steps to go beyond our HSI designation to become an institution where Hispanic students thrive. Discover how we are supporting our Hispanic students #2 in the Nation for bilingual, multilingual, and multicultural education #20 in the Nation highest percentage of Hispanic, degree-seeking undergraduates #9 in the Nation for granting undergraduate degrees to Hispanics #17 in the Nation in Hispanic graduate student enrollment AudaciousModeling the future of higher education UTSA was founded with the promise of social mobility and opportunity for underserved Texans. Today, UTSA is setting the standard for educating students that reflect the demographic future of the United States. Discover UTSA’s Bold vision for the future Connect with UTSA Alumni Stay connected to Roadrunner Nation through the Alumni Association About the Alumni Association Businesses & Corporations Explore the many ways your business can partner with UTSA Partner with UTSA San Antonio Community Discover the UTSA offices and programs that provide services resources and educational opportunities to local residents. Our community efforts Research Partners Collaborate with a faculty researcher through one of UTSA's many specialized labs, center and institutes. Our research partners Donors Make a bold impact at UTSA through your financial support. Give now Find a faculty expert UTSA faculty can lend their expertise and insights on newsworthy topics and policymaking View our expert directory Bold Champions Campaign Supports Student-Athletes The Bold Champions: A New Era for UTSA Athletics campaign is transforming San Antonio into a destination for the nation's most competitive Division I student-athletes. Donations support athletics capital projects and the Roadrunner Athletic Fund. Be a Bold Champion Building Digital Literacy We’re dedicated to transforming education through creative digital empowerment, weaving Adobe’s cutting-edge tools into learning experiences to give our students a competitive edge. Learn about our Adobe Creative Campus Our Newest DesignationTop Ranked for Research UTSA is committed to tackling the grand challenges facing San Antonio and the nation. Our new Carnegie R1 designation demonstrates the value and impact of the research and scholarly work taking place across the university. – Bernard Arulanandam, Vice President for Research, Economic Development, and Knowledge Enterprise. More about the designation CommunityDestination Downtown Anchoring the city’s technology corridor, the UTSA Downtown Campus is undergoing an expansion that shows promise for economic prosperity, urban revitalization and transdisciplinary discovery. See UTSA’s downtown growth InventiveTalent of Tomorrow UTSA is tackling the workforce talent vacuum to ensure our region and state remains competitive, providing the next generation of talent with the skills and connections they need to jumpstart their careers. Meet tomorrow’s change makers Academic Programs 71 Undergraduate Majors 96 Graduate Programs 8 Colleges View Undergraduate Majors View Graduate Programs View Online Programs Take the next bold step Apply now Visit Request info One UTSA Circle, San Antonio, TX 78249 210-458-4011 @UTSA Facebook @UTSA Twitter @UTSA YouTube @UTSA LinkedIn @UTSA Instagram Locations Visit UTSA Today Jobs Emergency Contacts Directory Report Fraud Title IX Reporting ADA Resources Clery Information Roadrunner Remembrance Counseling/Mental Health CARES Act Reports & Disclosure Sexual Harassment and Sexual Misconduct Policy © 2021 The University of Texas at San Antonio Policies Web Accessibility Required Links UT System