Princeton Program in Plasma Physics Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Princeton Program in Plasma Physics Main Menu Menu Home Admissions Submenu Overview Frequently Asked Questions Education Submenu Overview Courses Degree Requirements Employers of Program Graduates Graduate Theses Research Submenu Overview Academic News People Submenu Faculty and Staff Associated Faculty Graduate Students GSC Submenu Overview Women+ in Plasma Physics Submenu Overview Members and Alumnae PWiPP Events Blogs Resources for Students Log in Search Search Princeton Program in Plasma Physics Graduate students in the Program in Plasma Physics Sir Steve Cowley and the students in the program. Women in Plasma Physics and friends go Paint & Sip! Graduate students at an ice cream social. Founding members of the Princeton Women+in Plasma Physics group. Back (left to right): Sierra Jubin '17, Alexandra LeViness '18, Jessica Li '18, Kendra Bergstedt '18, Laura Xin Zhang '16; Front: Suying Jin '18. Photo credit: Eduardo Rodriguez '17 Graduate students in the program in plasma physics. Halloween in the party office 2019. Sir Steve and the students. Alex Glasser (graduate student cohort of '15) works on the field reversed configuration (FRC) confinement experiment at PPPL. 1 / 9 Previous image ◀︎ Next image ▶︎ The Princeton Program in Plasma Physics is a graduate program within the Department of Astrophysical Sciences at Princeton University. Students are admitted directly to the Program and are granted degrees through the Department of Astrophysical Sciences. The Program is based at the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory, which is on the James Forrestal Campus of Princeton University, a few miles up US Route 1 from main campus. Contact Dara Lewis Program in Plasma Physics Graduate Administrator Office Phone 609-243-2678 Email dmlewis@princeton.edu Footer Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory · P.O. Box 451 · Princeton, NJ 08540 Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University