Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index University Recreation Menu Search TTU University Recreation Rentals & Reservations All reservations of University Recreation outdoor spaces must also have the event approved by the Outdoor Events Coordinating Committee (Grounds Use) of the University. A reservation with University Recreation only secures the right to move forward with the planning of the event. Forms and information on Grounds Use may be found on the website of Student Union and Activities.No event may be held without University approval. All reservations that are approved are considered approved “weather permitting” and that conditions exist that would not cause damage to fields, play spaces or areas. Outside Rentals do not come with "Inclement Weather" accommodations. Who can reserve space, for what and how much? Who? TTU Student Organizations or Departments. Outside Groups with certain qualifications. What? Membership Drives, Philanthropic Events and Fundraisers, Campus Wide Events and Student Org. Socials to name a few. Fees? Depends on the scope of your event. Details regarding fees will be discussed during the reservation process. Areas The drop down menu below provides a description of the areas available for rentals. Student Rec CenterAquatic Center and Leisure PoolUrbanovsky Park Picnic GazebosUrbanovsky AmphitheatreRugby FieldOpen Fields and SVB at Urbanovsky ParkWest Rec Softball ComplexWest Rec Soccer ComplexTennis CourtsDisc Golf Course Student Rec Center The Student Rec Center is primarily for students and student groups, however during slow use times, University Recreation will entertain reservations from campus partners. Spaces in the Rec that can be reserved during those times include; Sport Courts, Fitness Rooms, and Classrooms Aquatic Center and Leisure Pool The AC and Leisure Pool are available for Birthday Parties and Social Gatherings. Prices vary based on size and time of the event. Some parties can be done while the pool is open, other events will require a full rental while the pool is closed for the event. Urbanovsky Park Picnic Gazebos We have 2 Gazebos to allow for Cook-Outs (Grill not provided) or just for meetings. Each Gazebo can come with other spaces (SVB, Open Play) as long as those areas are not already reserved. Urbanovsky Amphitheatre A “hill amphitheatre” with a flat grass performing area at the bottom. The amphitheatre will seat up to approximately 250 people comfortably in the grass. This is the area where bands, stages, and outdoor performances are generally held. Rugby Field A large field area just east of the United Spirit Arena. This area runs into the Tech Bonfire area where the homecoming bonfire is held annually. This area is typically not for reservations as its a competitive space for our Rugby Teams. Open Fields and SVB at Urbanovsky Park This is an open area just east of the Student Recreation Center. Generally, these fields are for “free play” for Tech Students when not in use for intramural activities. This space also includes 5 Sand Volleyball Courts and 2 Basketball Courts (1 High and 1 Low Hoop) West Rec Softball Complex A four field softball complex south of UMC. The shelter house and restrooms may be part of a reservation but will only be available with the employment of University Recreation staff. Groups must pay for the personnel cost and there is no guarantee that we will have personnel available for West Rec areas on dates requested. West Rec Soccer Complex A four field soccer complex east of the Texas Tech Johnny Walker Soccer Stadium. The shelter house and restrooms may be part of a reservation but only will be available with the employment of University Recreation staff. Groups must pay for the personnel cost and there is no guarantee that we will have personnel available for West Rec areas on dates requested. Tennis Courts The University Recreation Tennis Courts are east of the Student Rec Center and are primarily a drop-in area. No reservations will be considered that require more than half the courts. Disc Golf Course The University Recreation Disc Golf Course is a 9 hole course that winds through Urbanovsky Park. Reservations are limited, but daily equipment can be checked out inside the SRC on the bottom floor in the Equipment Issue office. HOW DO I RESERVE A SPACE? To inquire about reserving an area, please fill out the University Reservation Form! MORE INFORMATION Please contact our Member Services Department Weekdays from 8:00am - 5:00pm | 806-742-3351 | urec.memberships@ttu.edu University Recreation Address Texas Tech University, Box 42151, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3351 Email urec@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 4, 2022 2:14 PM University Recreation Hours Programs University Recreation Back Aquatics Fitness and Wellness Sport Programs Outdoor Pursuits Summer Youth Programs Memberships Facility Information University Recreation Back Aquatic Facilities Facility Rental Information Student Rec Center West Rec Turf Field Complex Parking Parking During Basketball Games Rentals/Reservations Employment About Us University Recreation About Us Back Professional Staff University Recreation Mission and Vision Policies Giving and Scholarships Contact Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index