Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'G': Gameday for Students Students, in these pages, find all the information you need to prepare for and participate in the first football season at McLane Stadium! Review ticket and tailgate policies, learn how traditions like the Baylor Line will transition to McLane Stadium, and get primed for gameday with Old Fight and a Sic'em Bears! Gameday Parking and Transportation Parking in and around McLane Stadium for kickoff-weekend events will be a new experience for all fans and will require careful planning and some patience as crowds are expected to be very large for this once-in-a-lifetime event. On this site, you’ll find a collection of resources to help you plan and navigate parking and transportation. General Counsel The Office of General Counsel ("OGC") manages and supervises all legal affairs for the University. The General Counsel serves as the legal officer to the Board of Regents and the University. This office provides legal advice to the President, Board of Regents, faculty and administration on a broad array of legal issues and represents the University in all legal proceedings. General Human Sciences and Design This major teaches students about issues that affect individuals, families, and communities with special attention to issues that relate to the basic needs of food, shelter, clothing, and relationships. Students examine personal and family life across the life span as they merge the challenges of living and working in a diverse, global society. General Ledger and Grants Accounting George W. Truett Theological Seminary Texas Theological Seminary. At Baylor University you'll have the opportunity to attend seminary classes and learn about Baylor's many academic options. Geosciences, Department of Baylor Geosciences focuses on integrative and interdisciplinary research, teaching, and service in Earth Sciences. German The home page of the German language department. Gift & Estate Planning Thank you for your interest in supporting Baylor University. Our hope is to serve you and your family with helpful information. We have an increasing number of friends at Baylor who have made an investment of a lifetime through bequests, gift annuities and other plans. Thank you for taking the time to explore the benefits of gift planning. Give Light: The Campaign for Baylor Give Light is a $1.1 billion comprehensive campaign for the future of Baylor University. The campaign undergirds Illuminate, the University's Academic Strategic Plan, and will impact every aspect of campus life, from academics and athletics to student life and global engagement. Give Now - Online Giving Baylor's online giving website allows alumni and friends of the university to make a gift through a secure system. The online giving system is easy and convenient to use, and it facilitates your gift by one of several electronic means: credit card, electronic funds transfer or intent to make a gift. Giving to Baylor Investing in the future of Baylor students... All who love Baylor -- all who care about faith, values and service -- all who understand the importance of providing the highest quality Christian education are challenged to join us in this mission. Your gifts will make a difference. goBAYLOR For undergraduate admissions goBAYLOR is THE place. Think of it as your all-access pass to anything you need to connect with Baylor Admissions. From our online application, to following the progress of your admission file, to signing up for orientation – goBAYLOR gives you the access you need. Governmental Relations The actions of local, state, and federal government have a significant impact on Baylor University. The OGR represents Baylor in these important governmental arenas and brings government officials to campus for speaking engagements, public forums, and informal sessions with students and faculty. Grades and Transcripts Information about Academic Records and Transcripts, from the Registrar\'s Office web site. Graduate School The Baylor University Graduate School official website. Information about Graduate Admissions, Graduate Programs, the Graduate Catalog, and everything related to Graduate Studies can be found here. Graduate School Admissions Baylor University offers a diverse catalog of more than 100 master's and doctoral programs to help you reach your career goals. Here, you'll find the support of a caring Christian community and the opportunity to work alongside world-class faculty in purposeful research. Graduate School Catalog The course catalog of the Baylor University Graduate School. Graduate School Funding Opportunities Baylor offers a number of funding opportunities aimed at supporting the research and professional development of graduate students. Great Texts The Great Texts Program was established in 2002, and is a part of the Honors College Greek Life The Department of Student Activities offers significant opportunities for students to get involved and plugged into campus life through membership in the Baylor Greek Community. The Baylor Greeks are a diverse community with over 40 national and local Greek organizations. This community offers its members opportunities to expand their undergraduate experience through service, leadership, campus involvement, academic excellence, brotherhood and sisterhood. Being Greek is one of the most fulfilling experiences for Baylor students. Green and Gold Weekend Each spring, the landscape of Central Texas shows its Baylor colors and we’re inspired to do the same. Celebrate Baylor’s newest spring tradition, Green and Gold Weekend to reconnect with friends and fellow alumni and enjoy events for the entire family. Guest Housing Baylor Guest Housing Services accommodates housing needs for Baylor departmental guests and dignitaries who are visiting the University for business. Faculty/Staff homepages starting with 'G': Gardner,Steve Baylor Faculty and Staff: Update your homepage address or learn more about your homepage and privacy settings. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678