Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Fraternity and Sorority Life Interfraternity Council Interfraternity Council IFC Recruitment Multicultural Greek Council Multicultural Greek Council MGC Intake National Pan-Hellenic Council National Pan-Hellenic Council NPHC Intake Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Recruitment Parent and Families ☰ Fraternity and Sorority Life Scholarship. Service. Leadership/Personal Development. Brotherhood/Sisterhood. ABOUT US SMU Student Affairs Fraternity and Sorority Life The mission of fraternity and sorority life is to cultivate a COLLABORATIVE, VALUES-BASED fraternal experience that fosters MEANINGFUL COMMUNITY, ACADEMIC EXCELLENCE, and ETHICAL LEADERSHIP. SMU fraternities and sororities have had a presence on campus since the university opened in 1915. Approximately 43% of the undergraduate population currently holds membership in a Greek organization, providing a well-rounded college experience that aids in the development of personal and professional skills. Learn About the SMU Fraternity and Sorority Community Eligibility Requirements and Membership SMU is a deferred recruitment campus, allowing students to connect first with the institution and focus on academic success. Students interested in joining one of our fraternities or sororities must: Complete & pass 12 college credit hours in the previous semester to joining (defined as fall or spring term); may be completed at a previous institution (see below). (Dual credit & AP credit do not count) Achieve a 2.5 GPA; cumulatively and in the previous semester Not be placed on conduct probation or higher with the Office of Student Conduct & Community Standards at any point in the current or previous semester to joining or initiation. Must be enrolled at SMU prior to the start of a recruitment or intake process. *Transfer students (first semester at SMU will be same as recruitment process) will need to provide a transcript to show that the academic requirements above have been met at their previous institution. Transfer students should still plan to register by any deadlines set by the council they are interested in. How to Join Let us know you’re interested by filling out this form. Explore the Greek 101 Canvas course and check out Council events during the fall semester. The fall is a great time to meet new people and get to know the organizations. *Once you fill out the form above, FSL staff will share a link to the Greek 101 Canvas course. Sign up to participate in a council specific recruitment or intake process: IFC: Click here for registration information. MGC: Attend MGC showcase on September 8th, 2022. NPHC: Attend the NPHC Forum on September 6th, 2022. Panhellenic: Click here for registration information. Keep an open mind! SMU has so many great involvement opportunities. Hazing and Student Safety Student safety and well-being are our top priorities. Hazing is a violation of Texas law, the SMU Student Code of Conduct, and the inter/national policies for each of our fraternities and sororities. Report possible hazing activity HERE. Academic Success Fall 2021 Grade Report Spring 2021 Grade Report Fall 2020 Grade Report Spring 2020 Grade Report Fall 2019 Grade Report Spring 2019 Grade Report Fall 2018 Grade Report FSL Terminology Fraternity and Sorority Life Terminology SMU Fraternity & Sorority Life Policies Conduct Status for Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Councils Men's Groups 9 North-American Interfraternity Conference (NIC) Chapters Interfraternity Council (IFC) 2 Men's Groups 2 Women's Groups Culturally-based organizations Multicultural Greek Council (MGC) 2 Men's Groups 2 Women's Groups Historically Black/African American organizations National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) Women's Groups 8 National Panhellenic Conference (NPC) groups Panhellenic Council (PHC) Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share