Skip to main content Quicklinks COVID-19 University Magazines Newsroom Logins Canvas Employee Email My UT Health LiveMail Kronos Time and Attendance My Student Center UT Health Learns Find A to Z list Alumni Directories Events Calendars Technology Service Desk Password Reset TechZone (Computer Store) Partner Directory More Library Bookstore Course Catalog Human Resources Menu 210-567-7000 Give Search/Quicklinks Academics Research Patient Care Community How do we make lives better? As the leading research university in South Texas, UT Health San Antonio has been awarded $10.9 million to advance the fight against cancer as it recruits new scientists to join its world-class faculty. Discovering new cancer treatments Academics Research Patient Care Community Training Future Generations With five schools offering 65 degree specialties, we're training South Texas' next generation of healthcare professionals. Leading Breakthroughs We're moving research forward and developing new methods for combatting disease, from diabetes to cancer to Alzheimer's. Advancing Patient Care Our network of 800 specialists are informed by the latest medical discoveries and can tailor a treatment plan for you. The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio is proud to be ranked within multiple U.S. News & World Report Best Grad Schools categories. Our five schools offer 65 professional, graduate and undergraduate degree and certificate programs, across campuses in San Antonio and Laredo. Learn more COVID-19 Vaccines Available COVID-19 vaccine appointments are available, by appointment, to everyone 5 years and older. Everyone 12 years and older is eligible to receive a Pfizer COVID-19 booster shot. Third doses of the COVID-19 vaccine are recommended, sooner than the booster dose, for those with compromised immune systems. Schedule now Reflecting our commitment to the health of the community, UT Health San Antonio and all of its locations will continue to follow all COVID-19 safety protocols, including the requirement to wear masks in all patient settings. 1 of 4 NCI-designated Cancer Centers in Texas 65 Degree Specialties Offered $350M (FY 22) Annual Research Awards and Sponsored Program Activity Happening now at UT Health San Antonio We do everything it takes to support the health needs of our city and surrounding region through academics, research, patient care and service to the community. Stay informed on the latest news and events and discover how you can be a part of our mission to make lives better. Newsroom UT Health San Antonio The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio 210-567-7000 7703 Floyd Curl Drive San Antonio, TX 78229 Map and directions Status Campus Status: Normal IT Operations: Normal Connect with us About Us Contact Us Faculty directory Job openings Newsroom Resources Accessibility Compact with Texans Compliance Hotline Language Assistance Legal Nondiscrimination and Title IX Patient rights and responsibilities Public/personal information Sexual Misconduct Policy & Reporting Student Mental Health Resources Veterans Portal Web Accessibility Web Privacy © Copyright 2014 - 2022 UT Health San Antonio Web Privacy | Links from websites affiliated with UT Health's website (uthscsa.edu) to other websites do not constitute or imply university endorsement of those sites, their content, or products and services associated with those sites. The content on this website is intended to be used for informational purposes only. Health information on this site is not meant to be used to diagnose or treat conditions. Consult a health care provider if you are in need of treatment.