Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home Programs and Initiatives Keep Our Community Healthy Keep Our Community Healthy Keep Our Community Healthy Stay Healthy. Keep the Compact. In these extraordinary times, we all have a role to play in keeping our community healthy. Our individual actions can and do affect everyone’s health and well-being, and that’s why each of us is expected to do our part and #KeeptheCompact. Hear more about why Keeping the Compact is important through these videos, blogs and vlogs. Students from every school are sharing what they're doing to keep our campus safe, healthy and open. It’s on all of us to Keep Our Community Healthy. Write to [email protected] with feedback or questions. Student Voices on Keeping Columbia Healthy See what Columbia students have to say about why they feel it's important to keep the Compact. In videos, blogs and vlogs, Columbia students are sharing why they're doing everything they can to #StayHealthy. Essential Workers at Columbia University Say Thank You Staff from across the University share their appreciation to Columbia students for helping keep our community healthy. Hear why our workers are grateful that the entire community is following the Columbia Community Health Compact. #KeeptheCompact Stepping In: How You Can Help to Keep Columbia Safe It can feel uncomfortable to ask someone to put on their face covering or keep physical distance. Yet it’s so important that we all do our part to reduce the risk of transmission for ourselves and others. Get quick tips for encouraging others to follow Columbia’s safety policies. Additional Information Student Experience How Will Our Campuses Be Different? Ways to Cope With Quarantine Event Policies and Information Reporting Compact Violations or Bias University Policy and Guidance Enhanced University Health and Safety Policy Accountability Plan for Columbia Community Health Compact Test and Trace Policy Frequently Asked Questions Additional Resources Online Learning Toolkit List of Resources from Columbia University University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close