Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Dentistry DMD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Dentistry DMD Apply Request More Info Dentistry DMD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Clinical Experience Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Doctor of Dental Medicine Temple University Maurice H. Kornberg School of Dentistry has more than 150 years of history in dental education. The school has been involved in all phases as the field of dentistry has developed, from the invention of the first dental chair to today’s state-of-the-art digital technology. As a graduate of Temple’s Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD) program, you will be highly competent in providing ethical, scientifically based, patient-centered and community-oriented oral healthcare. The DMD program at Kornberg is widely respected and known to be one of the best and most well-rounded clinical programs that educates and prepares dentists who are competent to practice immediately after graduation. A strong didactic curriculum is paired with diverse clinical experiences and research and scholarly opportunities, providing you with the knowledge and skills needed to be practice-ready when you earn your degree. You will also develop an appreciation for continual learning and improvement throughout your career, setting you up for success in one of the most rapidly advancing healthcare sectors. Contents Patient-centered CareInnovation in ResearchInternational Dentists DMD ProgramFour-year DMD Classes & CurriculumRelated Graduate CertificatesTuition & Fees Patient-centered Care Established in 1863, Kornberg is the second-oldest dental school in the U.S. The school remains committed to its founding principle of educating dentists who are equipped to provide excellent oral healthcare to all, including disadvantaged members of the community and special-needs patients. The DMD program takes a humanistic approach and is rooted in the belief that a better quality of life can be achieved through the integration of comprehensive oral healthcare into primary healthcare. To that end, the program puts the patient at the center of your education, preparing you to provide compassionate, considerate and professional care to all patients. Diverse Patient Population Located in North Philadelphia, an area with an economically, racially and ethnically diverse population linked with public transportation that can easily be accessed by over 200,000 residents of the city of Philadelphia, the Kornberg School of Dentistry offers you unparalleled access to a patient population that has dental needs with a wide range of oral health conditions. Patients seen at Kornberg Clinics generally have a high need for dental care and limited access, resulting in unmatched opportunities for students to provide care. Learn more about clinical education. Philadelphia is one of the country’s most prominent hubs for health professionals. As a result, you will have opportunities to learn from a diverse population of the city that is rich in history. In the classroom and clinics, you will experience an environment that is focused on education and patient-centered care. You will learn about practice management and new digital technologies from expert faculty practitioners who are passionate about sharing their knowledge and shaping the next generation of dentists. Beyond the classroom, there is a wealth of alumni-run private practices in the region that often invite students to see firsthand how private practices operate. These observational opportunities build on the innovative Practice Management in Action course, which teaches you about the business side of dentistry, while connecting current students with practicing alumni. Commitment to Innovation Kornberg and Temple are committed to making continual investments in state-of-the-art technologies and dental equipment, so students are trained in and knowledgeable about the latest advances in the field. You will also be prepared to professionally adapt to the near constant changes in technology that will impact your practice in the future. Students may work with faculty mentors on original research or other scholarly activities. The school has new laboratories engaged in novel research on smart biomaterials, dentin and pulp regeneration, oral microbiome, issue engineering and genetics, and public health or behavioral sciences. You will learn to conduct critical analysis of scientific evidence in order to support clinical care. Learn more about research opportunities. International Dentists DMD program Experienced dentists who have graduated from international dental schools might be interested in the International Dentists DMD. Classes & Curriculum The Dentistry DMD curriculum begins with classroom study of the normal structure and function of the body, including oral and dental tissues and systems, and a preclinical sequence introducing the student to dental anatomy, dental materials, occlusion and operative dentistry. In the second year, you will study diseases and systems and how they impact oral and dental health. You’ll then embark on a preclinical series of courses that covers virtually all phases of dentistry, including digital dentistry, endodontics, orthodontics, pediatric dentistry, prosthodontics and radiography. In your third and fourth years, you will gain expertise in providing comprehensive oral care and performing complex dental procedures needed for the modern practice of general dentistry. You will also develop critical thinking and problem-solving skills, while honing your ability to make ethical decisions grounded in evidence-based knowledge. Sample courses you will take during your studies include Anesthesia and Pain Control, Biochemistry, Dental Materials, Endodontology and Periodontology. Learn more about Dentistry DMD courses, including courses specific to each year of the curriculum. Related Graduate Certificates Advanced Education in General Dentistry Dental Public Health Endodontics Orthodontics Periodontics Program Contact David A. Dams is the director of admissions at the Kornberg School of Dentistry. Phone: 215-707-3304 Email: david.dams@temple.edu Accreditation The program in predoctoral dental education is accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation [and has been granted the accreditation status of “approval without reporting requirements”]. The commission is a specialized accrediting body recognized by the United States Department of Education. The Commission on Dental Accreditation can be contacted at 312-440-4653 or at 211 E. Chicago Ave., Chicago, IL, 60611. The commission’s web address is ada.org/en/coda. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Dental Medicine offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about the tuition rates for the 2021–2022 academic year. Tuition and fees are subject to change. Learn more about our tuition and fees. DN-DENT-DMD Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Dentistry DMD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Clinical Experience Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info