Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Sociology Home News People Programs On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Applications FAQ Site Navigation Home News People Faculty Office and TA Lab Hours Ph.D. Students Master's Students Staff Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs A.B. in Sociology Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research Organizational Studies Track (S/OS) Honors Transfer Credit Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Ph.D. Program Funding Ph.D. Year by Year Awards Student Resources Student Publications Student Placements Master's in Social Analysis and Research Student Placements 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Applications FAQ Applications FAQ PhD Program FAQ How many letters of recommendation are required? We require at least three letters, though we accept up to five. What is the required length for the Statement of Purpose? Typically 1-2 pages, single-spaced. What is the required length for the Writing Sample? Typically 25-30 pages, double-spaced. Do I need to send official transcripts to the university? No. At the application stage of the process, unofficial transcripts are sufficient. We may, however, request them at a later point in the decision-making process. If admitted into the program, you will be required to send official transcripts then. Do I have to have a master’s to apply? No. You can earn a master’s on your way to earning a PhD. I took courses at an institution but did not earn a degree. Can I include this in the Education History section of the application? Please include an unofficial transcript for all courses taken but do not include this particular education information in the Education History portion of the application. Only include degrees earned. We suggest you address this type of education in your cover letter. Can I visit the department prior to the admission decision? We do not formally host visits prior to the application decision, but strongly encourage all admitted students to visit in the spring. My background is not in sociology; can I still apply? Of course! Not all of our students have undergraduate degrees in sociology, but most have a solid academic background and clear sense of direction. Am I required to take the TOEFL? Please see the TOEFL guidelines listed on the Graduate School website. How long are GRE and TOEFL scores valid? GRE test scores are valid for five years while TOEFL scores are valid for two years. Are there recommended GRE scores you tend to admit? Many of our admitted students have GRE scores in the top deciles, and all have very strong letters of recommendation and personal statements that are evidence of a good sense of fit with our strengths. What are the GRE institution and department codes? Brown University Graduate School: 3094 & GRE department code: 2102 I've read the TOEFL guidelines. I'm an international applicant whose native language is not English but earning a degree from an approved country under the TOEFL guidelines after the application deadline. Am I required to take the TOEFL? The TOEFL (see: guidelines) will be waived if: 1) You have earned your degree before enrolling at Brown and 2) You have requested a waiver from the Graduate School after submitting your application. Please submit your waiver request at [email protected]. MSAR Program FAQ When is the application deadline? For candidates outside of Brown (not currently enrolled as an undergraduate student at Brown), the deadline is February 1st. For current undergraduate students applying for the 5th year masters program, applications will be reviewed on an ongoing basis but must be received before completion of the undergraduate degree requirements. How many letters of recommendation should come from professors? How many from professionals? Three letters of recommendation are required. While we loosely suggest one from each, your letters of recommendation should evaluate your motivation, academic capacity, methodological strengths, and interpersonal skills. Can this program be taken part-time and at night? No, all course must be completed in one year. Does this program offer scholarships? No, this program does not offer scholarships, research or teaching assistantships. I do not have a good foundation in statistics/research methods. Will my application be considered? All entering students are required to have completed a one-semester introductory statistics course (SOC 1100 Introductory Statistics for Social Research or an equivalent), (2) a more advanced course in statistics or a course in college calculus (MATH 0050 and 0060, or MATH 0090 or above), and (3) a one-semester course in research methods (SOC 1020 or SOC 1050 or an equivalent). However, students who have not formally completed these college courses, but can demonstrate how these skills may have been gained through work or research experience will be considered. Applications are looked at holistically and all materials are weighed equally when the committee reviews and grants admission. Do I need to have a background working in sociology? No. Some of our students are accepted straight from undergraduate studies, therefore have no work experience. Can students take courses that are outside of what is listed for the program? To successfully complete the MSAR, you must take four required courses and four elective courses over the course of one year. Of the four elective courses, you may petition the director or associate director of graduate studies – MSAR to take a course outside of the sociology department. This course must be an advanced-level methods and/or statistics course. Depending on their interests, student may elect to take this elective course in departments such as Public Health, Applied Statistics, Computer Science, etc. Can you take longer than a year to complete the program? No. All courses must be completed in one year. How many students take part in this program yearly? Last year was our inaugural year therefore the program is growing in terms of students coming straight for the MSAR program. We are looking to grow the program to no more than ten students per year. What are the GRE requirements? What is the average GRE range for those admitted to the program? Unfortunately, we do not release averages of GRE scores for the program as we do not set minimum GRE requirements. Applications are looked at holistically and all materials are weighed equally when the committee reviews and grants admission. I took the GRE previously; can I use the scores? GRE scores are valid for 5 years, so if you have taken the GRE less than 5 years ago, the scores can be used. What are the GRE institution and department codes? Brown University Graduate School: 3094 & GRE department code: 2102 Is the MSAR program a STEM-designated program? Yes, the MSAR program is a STEM-designated program. Classification of Instructional Program Code 30.1701. Apply Now Applications FAQ Department of Sociology Department of Sociology Brown University Box 1916 Maxcy Hall, 108 George Street Inner Campus – Lower Green Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2367 Fax: 401-863-3213 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top