Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology Show/Hide Home People Faculty Faculty Fellows Affiliated Faculty Faculty Office Hours Emeritus Faculty Staff Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Visiting Scholars Advisory Board [email protected] Office Hours Undergraduate Graduate Courses Research & Projects Events News About Us Faculty Core Faculty Cicek Beeby Postdoctoral Research Associate in Archaeology and the Ancient World [email protected] 401-863-6936 Rhode Island Hall, Room 208 Cicek Beeby’s research explores the art, archaeology, and social history of Greece in the Early Iron Age and the Archaic periods. Her interests include burial practices, funerary art, bioarchaeology, urbanization, state-formation, and spatial analysis. Read full profile Laurel Bestock Associate Professor of Archaeology and the Ancient World and Egyptology and Assyriology Director of Graduate Studies, Archaeology and the Ancient World [email protected] 401-863-6291 Rhode Island Hall, Room 101 Laurel Bestock's research focuses on the material culture of the Nile Valley. She is particularly interested in kingship, monumentality, the contexts and audiences for art and architecture, and cultural interactions. Read full profile Sheila Bonde Professor of Archaeology, and Christopher Chan and Michelle Ma Professor of History of Art and Architecture [email protected] 401-863-1174 List Art Building, Room 413 Sheila Bonde is an archaeologist and architectural historian specializing in the study of medieval sites and their representation. She has excavated in England, France and Israel, and currently directs the MonArch excavation in France. Read full profile Zachary Dunseth Visiting Assistant Professor of Archaeology and the Ancient World [email protected] 401-863-6411 Rhode Island Hall, Room 102 Zachary Dunseth's research focuses on the Intermediate Bronze Age (c. 2500-1950 BCE) settlement phenomena in the arid Negev Highlands through a microarchaeological perspective. He has excavated extensively in Israel, including Megiddo and in the Negev Highlands. Read full profile Tyler Franconi Visiting Assistant Professor of Archaeology and the Ancient World [email protected] 401-863-2306 Rhode Island Hall, Room 210 Tyler Franconi is a Roman archaeologist whose research focuses on the economic and environmental history of the Roman Empire, especially in Western Europe. He co-directs the Upper Sabina Tiberina Project in central Italy, and is a specialist in Roman small finds and ceramics. Read full profile Yannis Hamilakis Joukowsky Family Professor of Archaeology and Professor of Modern Greek Studies [email protected] 401-863-6231 Rhode Island Hall, Room 007 Yannis Hamilakis's main research and teaching interests are the socio-politics of the past, the body and bodily senses, the archaeology of eating and drinking, the ontology and materiality of photography, archaeology and nationalism, archaeological ethnography, and critical pedagogy in archaeology. His main geographical research focus has been Greece and the Aegean, and he co-directs the Koutroulou Magoula Archaeology and Archaeological Ethnography Project. Read full profile Alex Marko Visiting Assistant Professor of Archaeology and the Ancient World [email protected] 401-863-6937 Rhode Island Hall, Room 011 Alex Marko’s research interests include time and timekeeping, urban archaeology and taphonomy, the spatial analysis of urban contexts, digital documentation and reconstruction, and architectural analysis. Read full profile Nour Munawar Postdoctoral Research Associate in Archaeology and the Ancient World [email protected] 401-863-7553 Rhode Island Hall, Room 207 Nour Munawar’s research focuses on archaeology, cultural heritage, memory and the politics of representing the material culture of the past in Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region. He is particularly interested in the destruction, reconstruction, decolonization, documentation practices, and representations of archaeological collections, monuments, and facilities in conflict zones, and how cultural heritage is used and abused in post-conflict times. Read full profile Candace Rice Assistant Professor of Archaeology and Classics Director of Graduate Studies, Doctoral Program in Archaeology and the Ancient World [email protected] 401-863-3710 Rhode Island Hall, Room 209 Candace Rice's research focuses on Mediterranean maritime trade and economic development during the Roman period. She is particularly interested in exploring what the archaeological record reveals about the ways in which connectivity changed the nature of the Roman economy through enhanced supra-regional integration and specialized local economic development. Read full profile Felipe Rojas Associate Professor of Archaeology and Assyriology Director of Undergraduate Studies, Archaeology and the Ancient World [email protected] 401-863-6292 Rhode Island Hall, Room 212 Felipe Rojas specializes in the Eastern Mediterranean during the classical period. He has conducted fieldwork at different sites in Anatolia and the Levant, including Sardis and Aphrodisias. He currently directs the Brown University Labraunda Project and is the associate director of the Notion Archaeological Survey, both of which explore major sites in ancient western Turkey, and the Brown University Petra Terraces Archaeological Project, in Petra, Jordan. Read full profile Miriam Rothenberg Visiting Assistant Professor of Archaeology and the Ancient World [email protected] 401-863-6935 Rhode Island Hall, Room 214 Miriam Rothenberg's dissertation focuses on the archaeology of volcanic disasters, and how landscapes and materialities of disaster mediate trauma and resilience. Her other research interests include contemporary archaeology, geology and geoarchaeology, volcanology, GIS, paperless recording, and digital materialities. Read full profile Andrew Scherer Associate Professor of Anthropology and Archaeology [email protected] 401-863-7059 Giddings House, Room 215 Andrew Scherer is an anthropological archaeologist and biological anthropologist with a geographic focus in Mesoamerica (Maya). He co-directs an interdisciplinary archaeological research project that is exploring Classic Maya polities along the Usumacinta River in Mexico. Read full profile Peter van Dommelen Director, Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World Joukowsky Family Professor in Archaeology Professor of Anthropology and Italian Studies [email protected] 401-863-2008 Rhode Island Hall, Room 009 Peter van Dommelen is a Mediterranean archaeologist, whose research and teaching revolve around the rural Mediterranean past and present. The regional focus of his work lies in the western Mediterranean, where he carries out long-term fieldwork on the island of Sardinia. Read full profile Faculty Office Hours People Faculty Faculty Fellows Affiliated Faculty Faculty Office Hours Emeritus Faculty Staff Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Visiting Scholars Advisory Board [email protected] Office Hours Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology Brown University Box 1837 Rhode Island Hall, 60 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3188 Fax: 401-863-9423 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat