Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell University of Washington Bothell Future Students Admissions Application Dates & Deadlines Campus Visit Degree Programs For Parents Orientation First Year Students Graduate International Post-Baccalaureate Returning Transfer Resources Financial Aid Food Services Housing Transportation Tuition I want to... Attend Orientation Request Information Visit UW Bothell Apply to UW Bothell » Current Students Resources Campus Safety Canvas Catalyst Financial Aid and Scholarships Food Services Registration Time Schedule Tuition Academics Academic Calendar Community-Based Learning Degrees Quantitative Skills Center Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Writing and Communication Center Student Affairs Careers Counseling Center for International Education DACA Resources Disability Resources Veterans Student Parents ASUWB Clubs and Organizations Orientation Recreation Student Affairs My UW » Schools & Programs Academic Affairs Faculty Support Institutional Research & Analysis Division of Academic Affairs Sponsored Research Schools & Programs Business Educational Studies Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Nursing & Health Studies Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) First Year & Pre-Major Program Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Safety Directory General Faculty Organization (GFO) General Staff Organization (GSO) IT MyUW Campus Services Canvas Food Service Room Reservations Commuter Services UW Alert Work Request Working at UW Bothell Accessibility Benefits Human Resources Integrated Service Center Payroll Training and Development Work/Life Balance How do I ... Apply for a Job Contact Campus Safety Find University Forms Get a Husky Card Plan an Event Alumni & Donors Get Involved Advancement and External Relations Alumni Council Distinguished Alumni Award Give to UW Bothell Update your Contact Information UW Alumni Association Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Alumni News Alumni Events Annual Husky 5K Bothell Block Party UW Bothell News UW Bothell Magazine Resources Alumni Services Career Center FAQ's Lifelong Learning UW Bothell Advisory Board How do I ... Find Classmates Get my Transcript Get Tickets to Husky Sports What are you Doing now? Give to UW Bothell » Discover UW Bothell Getting to Campus Building Hours Campus Map Directions Parking Transportation About UW Bothell About Leadership Chancellor Kristin Esterberg Fast Facts Mission, Vision & Core Values News & Events 2010-2020 Annual Impact Report Construction Calendar Emergency Information News Community Community Engagement Campus Tours Employers Visitors Parents and Family Home About UW Bothell Leadership About UW Bothell Fast Facts 2021-22 Fast Facts 2020-21 Videos Mission & vision Leadership History Visitors Crows on Campus Campus webcam Maps & directions Leadership Chancellor Kristin G. Esterberg Dr. Kristin G. Esterberg joined UW Bothell on October 1, 2021 to serve as the University's fourth chancellor. Prior to joining UW Bothell, she was president of the State University of New York at Potsdam. Earlier in her career she was provost and academic vice president at Salem State University in Massachusetts and as deputy provost at the University of Massachusetts Lowell. Chancellor Esterberg's research has centered on gender and sexuality, social identities, research methodology and social organization and change. Learn more about Chancellor Esterberg. Chancellor's Executive Team Sharon A. Jones, Ph.D Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Sharon A. Jones was named vice chancellor for Academic Affairs in April 2019. She was previously the dean of the University of Portland's Shiley School of Engineering. Jones is the chief academic officer on campus, overseeing UW Bothell's five schools. Jones has worked as a professional engineer and holds a doctorate in engineering and public policy. Rebecca Ehrlichman Blume Vice Chancellor for Advancement & External Relations Rebecca Ehrlichman Blume joined UW Bothell as vice chancellor for Advancement in April 2022. She was previously the assistant dean for Mission Advancement & Engagement at UW’s Evans School of Public Policy & Governance for more than seven years. She oversaw the school’s community engagement, marketing and communications, fund development and strategic partnerships. A UW alumnus, Blume received her master’s in public administration from the school in 2010. Caroline Titan, Ph.D. Campus Diversity Officer Dr. Caroline Titan was named assistant vice chancellor for Diversity, Equity & Inclusion in July 2022. She holds degrees from the University of Michigan and the University of Maryland and has focused her career on bringing about change and on creating working and learning spaces where equity, justice and inclusion are integral to institutional success. Titan is an adjunct faculty in Seattle University’s College of Education and previously served as a transformational equity leader for the Bellevue School District. Gowri Shankar, Ph.D Vice Chancellor for Planning & Administration Gowri Shankar was named vice chancellor for Planning & Administration in April 2021, after serving as interim for more than a year. He provides leadership in key areas related to administrative, financial, facilities and human resource operations. Shankar is a recipient of the UW Distinguished Teaching Award and has served as the chair of the UW Faculty Organization. He holds degrees in Accounting and Finance. Scott James, Ed.D Vice Chancellor for Enrollment Management & Student Affairs Scott James oversees both Enrollment Management and Student Affairs at UW Bothell. He holds a master of education in Administration, Planning and Social Policy from Harvard University and a doctorate in Higher Education Leadership and Policy from Vanderbilt University. Before joining UW Bothell, Scott served in high-level leadership roles at Salem State University, Harvard University, New Jersey City University and other higher education institutions. Lenina Arenas-Fuentes Chief of Staff Lenina Arenas-Fuentes joined UW Bothell in September 2019 as the campus’ chief of staff and has served as an academic administrator and communications strategist in higher education institutions in Canada, Mexico and the United States. Arenas-Fuentes oversees operations, strategy and budget for the Office of the Chancellor. She also supports the implementation of the campus’ strategic plan, the chancellor’s Investment Fund and other strategic initiatives. She is responsible for coordinating all executive advisory groups that facilitate institutional decision-making. She holds degrees in international relations and education. University leadership University of Washington leadership UW Bothell Advisory Board UW Bothell academic administration School of Business, Sandeep Krishnamurthy, dean School of Educational Studies, Ed Buendia, dean School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences, Brinda Sarathy, dean School of Nursing & Health Studies, Shari Dworkin, dean School of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics, Leslie Cornick, dean Student Success, Cinnamon Hillyard, associate vice chancellor UW Bothell library, Leslie Hurst, interim director and associate dean of university libraries Office of Sponsored Research and Office of Connected Learning, Carolyn Brennan, assistant vice chancellor UW Bothell leadership groups Chancellor’s Cabinet General Faculty Organization General Staff Organization Associated Students of University of Washington Bothell University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Box 358500 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.5000 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: uwbinfo@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us