Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Screen Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Screen Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Screen Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Screen Studies Undergraduate Certificate Gain an introduction to film studies with the Screen Studies Undergraduate Certificate in Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. The 13- or 14-credit hour certificate provides a stepping-stone for undergraduate students looking to enter a career in film study. In this four-course certificate, you will explore experimental film, film history and media arts. Through your studies, you will learn the development and role of film, media arts and video in the larger American culture. By the end of the program, you will understand how to analyze film, television and video; contextualize personal work in larger aesthetic theories; and translate concepts and ideas into audio and video projects. Assessment is based on creative audio, blogs, media arts and video projects, as well as critical papers and examinations. Classes & Curriculum In this 13- to 14-credit certificate, required courses include Media Arts I, Media and Culture, and Introduction to Film and Video Analysis. You can choose your fourth class in Film History I, Film History II, History of Experimental Film and Video Art, or Survey of New Media. Learn more about the Screen Studies Undergraduate Certificate courses. Related Graduate Degrees Film and Media Arts MFA Internships & Opportunities Internships are crucial to gaining entry to the film, television and media industries. Acquire hands-on production experience that will deepen your technical abilities and make you a more attractive candidate to potential employers. You can earn up to six credits while interning locally or in Los Angeles as part of the Los Angeles Study Away Program. The program in Los Angeles provides direct learning insights and professional work experiences in the media and entertainment industries. Film and Media Arts students may also find opportunities through Greater Philadelphia Film Office, International House, Pennsylvania Film Office, Philadelphia Film Society, Philadelphia Independent Film & Video Association, and Scribe Video Center. Careers Students who complete the Certificate in Screen Studies will have a base knowledge that allows them to pursue a wide variety of careers within the audio and visual arts industry. Career paths include advertising artist, director, film historian, playwright, video editor, videographer and video technician. Career Services The Film and Media Arts Department encourages students to find job opportunities by checking the information boards in Annenberg Hall, consulting with faculty, and visiting the Career Center for guidance on career direction and job search strategies. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors The School of Theater, Film and Media Arts academic advisors will guide you through choosing electives and registering for courses. Contact Dariq Cobb is an academic advisor for the Undergraduate Certificate in Screen Studies. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: dariq.cobb@temple.edu Leanna Arnold is the senior academic advisor for the Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: leanna.arnold@temple.edu Program Contact Dariq Cobb is the faculty contact for the Screen Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) program. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: dariq.cobb@temple.edu Accreditation The Film and Media Arts program is associated with the University Film and Video Association, an international organization of university and industry professionals working in the field of media production. CA-SCRS-CERT Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Screen Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info