COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW About Wichita Section Menu About Us Fast Facts Innovation at WSU Research at WSU Vision, Mission and Goals Strategic Plan University Growth Explore Wichita DiscoverWSU Maps and Directions Activities and Traditions WuShock Administration WSU Newsroom Public Information Employment Wichita is at the center of everything. As Kansas' largest metropolitan area—with a growing population approaching 700,000—Wichita is the commercial, financial, medical, cultural and entertainment hub for the state. Despite its growth, Wichita hasn't lost its friendly Midwestern feel, and that makes it a virtual utopia for aspiring college students. A secret no longer Wichitans have known for years—but now national publications are taking note of our low cost of living, growing economy and excellent quality of life. Everywhere you go, you'll see people wearing and displaying the city flag to show pride in what the city has become. A few of Wichita's recent honors include: No. 3 U.S. Advanced Industry Hotspot No. 1 Most Affordable College Town in America No. 2 Most Affordable City in the U.S. Top 10 Best Cities for New College Grads The 15 Best Midsize Cities for New Grads Top 10 Best Places to Live Top 10 Best Value City No. 2 Most Recession-Proof City Visit the Wichita Convention & Visitors Bureau Exploring Wichita After hours Wichita features more than 10 distinct shopping, dining and entertainment districts, each with their own vibe and flair. Go clubbing in Old Town. Shop for new looks in Douglas Design District boutiques. Meet up with friends in Delano. Foodies rejoice Wichita has an incredible spectrum of restaurants, brewpubs, food trucks and coffeehouses. It's what caused Livability.com to name Wichita among its Top 10 Surprising Foodie Cities. There's even a Food Truck Plaza on campus with fine cuisine on the move five days a week. Arts and culture From national acts performing at Wichita's 20,000-seat downtown arena to a thriving local arts and music scene—there is always something happening. Just walking on our campus exposes you to one the nation's top outdoor sculpture collections. Soak up the sun Wichita sits in the center of the U.S. Great Plains and enjoys excellent weather and a mild climate for most of the year. The city has been named one of the Top 50 Sunniest Cities in the U.S., and our students take advantage by exploring 100+ parks and 150 miles of bike and hiking trails—and by enjoying events on our beautiful 330-acre campus. Explore events on Campus Explore events happening in Wichita Wichita Gallery Innovation A center of innovation and industry Wichita is known as the Air Capital of the World, a nod to its large aircraft industry—but we have a long history of entrepreneurial spirit and business success. Some of the world's most innovative companies are proud to call Wichita home — including some located right on WSU's campus. The city's size and thriving business community give Shockers endless opportunities for experiential learning and creative collisions with entrepreneurs, dreamers and experts from all disciplines who are working for positive change in the world. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©