Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Civil Engineering Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Civil Engineering Major Apply Visit Request More Info Civil Engineering Major Admissions Information Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering The Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering is offered by the College of Engineering and prepares students for professional engineering careers in the design, construction and maintenance of the built environment. Civil engineers design bridges, buildings, canals, dams, roads, tunnels and industrial or municipal water treatment plants to physically support collective social needs. They create structural designs and infrastructure solutions that improve quality of life by making it possible for people to drink clean water, gather comfortably in public spaces and travel safely. Civil engineers can choose from numerous career paths and industries, such as construction engineering, environmental engineering, geotechnical engineering, structural engineering, transportation engineering, water-resource engineering and more. However, they must learn the basics of structural design and elements of construction, transportation and geotechnical engineering. The Civil Engineering undergraduate curriculum at Temple provides students with a solid engineering foundation and the ability to focus on their interests, as well as a course dedicated to navigating the engineering profession after graduation. Time to Completion At Temple, the 128-credit Civil Engineering major typically takes four years to complete, even if you choose to study in Rome for a semester. If you choose to take part in the co-op program, it may take up to five years to be awarded your degree. Concentrations Environmental Engineering Further focus your Civil Engineering degree with an in-depth understanding of air, land and water issues, and sharpen the skills needed to design solutions and promote sustainability. Gain hybrid expertise in Civil and Environmental Engineering in your course work and lab experience. View Concentration Details Co-ops Cooperative education (co-op) is an optional program that can provide you with the opportunity to work professionally before graduation. Students apply the knowledge they have learned in the classroom to real-world problems in the field. A co-op will help you create valuable connections with industry professionals, build a strong résumé and have an enhanced perspective on your field. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,808.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,984.00 per year Laptop Requirement The College of Engineering requires that students own a laptop for their engineering coursework by their junior year of study. Learn more about the hardware recommendation. Related Graduate Degrees Civil Engineering MS Engineering Management MS Environmental Engineering MS Civil Engineering PhD Environmental Engineering PhD +1 Accelerated Programs The College of Engineering also offers accelerated +1 Bachelor-Master programs. Qualifying students earn a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in one five-year course of study, instead of the usual six years. Civil Engineering undergraduate majors can earn a Master of Science in Civil Engineering or Environmental Engineering in one year. Graduate courses taken as an undergraduate in this program are charged at the undergraduate rate. Learn more about the College of Engineering’s accelerated programs. Our Academic Advisors Through advising workshops, career coaching, individual appointments and walk-in advising, support services are available to all undergraduate Engineering students. Such services range from academic mentoring, career development, choosing a major, degree planning, learning support and post-graduation planning. All academic advisors are available Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., to answer questions regarding General Education (GenEd), college and major requirements, and university academic policies and procedures. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Student Affairs. Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in one or more of the College of Engineering’s 15 student groups usually also means greater success at Temple. Further, you’ll find peer support and like-minded students, and have opportunities to affect positive change, either locally or around the world. Among other groups, students can join the American Society of Civil Engineers and the American Society of Highway Engineers. See the full list of Engineering clubs and organizations. Student Competitions Each year, Temple Engineering students compete rigorously in regional and national events that celebrate design, engineering and innovation, including the Formula SAE Collegiate Design Series, the NASA Robotic Mining Competition and the Student Design Competition. Study Away Opportunities Spend a semester in Rome and explore aqueducts, bridges and roads that are still standing 1,000 years after their construction. One of the big advantages of Temple Engineering’s study abroad program is that students take the same classes in Rome as they would on Main Campus: three Engineering classes and Italian I. Temple’s College of Engineering is one of the few schools able to offer coursework that keeps you up to speed with the demands of an engineering curriculum. Learn more about the Temple Rome Engineering study abroad program. Accreditation Temple’s Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). Learn more about our accreditation, program educational objectives and student outcomes. EN-CEE-BSCE Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Civil Engineering Major Admissions Information Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info