Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation School of Chemistry & Biochemistry This web site is under construction. Please come back for updated information. Main navigation About About SoCB Overview Finding Us Graduate Programs About Graduate Programs Research Themes Faculty Current Students Overview Graduate Forms Graduate Courses Enrollment and Registration New Graduate Student Resources Graduate Awards Prospective Students Degree Programs Admission Criteria Apply Contacts FAQ Program Overview Undergraduate Programs Overview Academics B.S Chemistry Program B.S. Biochemistry Progam Courses & Registration First -Year Chemistry Program About Faculty & Staff Resources Advanced Placement, SAT II, and IB Credit Minors Advising Study Abroad Careers Undergraduate Research Projects Undergraduate Research Overview Bagwell Undergraduate Research Fellowships Undergraduate Awards Research Research Themes Research Centers Facilities & Services Conferences Safety Important Contact Information Emergencies Training & Programs Safety Procedures Material Safety Data Sheet Resources Forms & Signages Hazardous Gases Program Safety Links People Overview Faculty Staff Directory Advisory Council Faculty Awards Employment Opportunities Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends Giving DEI DEI Committee DEI Mission Open Search Search Search Home Chemistry and Biochemistry ranks 21st overall and our Analytical Chemistry program ranks 17th. More about the rankings Mission Our mission encompasses chemical and biochemical education in a broad sense, the generation of new knowledge and technology, and service to the scientific community and the public at large. Research Research as an integral part of our mission towards gaining fundamental and applied knowledge, with the goal of discoveries that benefit humankind and training the next generation workforce. Education Molecular understanding is central to asking and answering many important questions, so we educate thousands of students on our campus every year. Our majors get degrees in either Chemistry or Biochemistry, with opportunities to focus on a variety of undergraduate tracks or graduate specializations. We also provide training for those interested in education as a career, including opportunities to work with our faculty who are teaching experts in the pursuit and publication of research in chemical education. News Celebrating our Spring 2022 Graduates! An Evolution of Astrobiology Three researchers from the Colleges of Engineering and Sciences are leading astrobiology’s largest national conference focused on the origins of life. Outstanding Students Honored at Annual Celebration Several College of Sciences students were recognized for excellence this year at the annual Student Honors Celebration on Thursday, April 21. Tech Celebrates Outstanding Faculty, Staff Members Faculty and staff from Biological Sciences, Chemistry and Biochemistry, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, and Physics were honored at the 2022 Faculty and Staff Honors Luncheon on Friday, April 29. Sciences Students and Alumni Receive 2022 NSF Graduate Research Fellowships More than a dozen College of Sciences student researchers and alumni are among nearly 90 Georgia Tech students and alumni being awarded five-year fellowships and honorable mentions for their work. More news Events Thursday May 26 2022 3:30PM - 4:30PM Dr. Leighanne Gallington: 3M Lecture Series on Diverse Perspectives in Chemical Research MoSE G011 Thursday Jun 2 2022 8:00AM - 12:00PM The Civic Role of Universities in a Changing Educational Landscape Global Learning Center (800 Spring St. NW) Thursday Sep 1 2022 3:30PM - 4:30PM Colloquium: Prof. Vinayak Agarwal MoSE G011 Tuesday Sep 6 2022 11:00AM - 12:00PM Analytical Seminar: Prof. Ian Webb MoSE 3201A More events Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN