Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Costs & Financial Aid Payment Information Payment Plans Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid Graduate Costs & Financial Aid Find your Financial Aid Advisor Payment Information Billing Due Dates Methods of Payment Payment Plans Payment FAQ Refunds Refunds FAQ Taxes SBS Forms Tuition and Fee Exemptions and Residency Waivers Contact Us Payment Plans In accordance with the Texas Education Code, the University offers payment plans to students for the payment of tuition and fees. Payment plans allow eligible students to secure enrollment subject to terms and conditions of the payment plan agreement. In addition to the plan agreement, all payment plans are subject to the following: Students with outstanding charges from a prior term are ineligible to participate in a new payment plan. All payment plans must be paid by the earlier of the due date or the last day of the term or session for which it was entered. Acknowledge the payment plan in writing (electronic signature). Acknowledge that any payment (financial aid, 3rd party, etc.) must first be applied against unpaid debt for the current semester. First pay 100% of any prior balance due before entering into a pay plan. Students may enroll in a payment plan through their myUH self-service account. The following are Pay Plans and Transition Funding Options offered by the university: Installment Pay Plan: This plan is available to any student unable to pay the full amount due by the university due date. Emergency Deferment Plan: This plan defers the payment of all the current semester's tuition and mandatory fees. (non-housing students) Short-Term Deferment Plan: This plan defers the payment of all the current semester's tuition and fees. (housing students only) Book Loans: This plan, found on the optional fee page at myUH, provides students with a short term book loan to assist in buying books. For more detailed information on each plan please read further: Installment Pay Plan: Does not cover prior unpaid balances. $25.00 non-refundable origination fee. Provides for 4 separate installments. The first installment is due by the initial due date for all students and must be at least 25% of the current semester's tuition and fees. All payments from any funding source must satisfy outstanding balance before any refund can be issued. A late fee charge of $25.00 will apply for each installment not paid by the due date. Any additional charges added to the student's account after the initial installment will be included in the installment plan. However, you may be required to immediately pay an amount equal to at least 25% of any new charges. The Installment Pay Plan is not available for Summer or Winter Mini session students who are not enrolled in the Spring term. The Installment Pay Plan is not available to students whose financial aid covers 100% of their total term balance. Emergency Deferment Plan: Is only available to students who do not live in university housing. Does not cover prior unpaid balances. The deferment covers only tuition and required/mandatory fees for the current term. The plan defers payment until the 90th day for the Fall/Spring term or the 45th day of the regular session for the Summer term. The deferment has a 5% annual percentage rate assessed on the Official Reporting Date of the Fall/Spring/Summer term. A late fee charge of $25.00 will apply if outstanding debt is not paid in full by due date. Requires that any credits to the account (financial aid, etc) must first be applied to the unpaid balance of the deferment. The plan must be paid during the term for which it was entered. Short-Term Deferment Plan: Is only available to students who live in university housing. Does not cover prior unpaid balances. Is for the entire balance of current term tuition, fees, housing, board The deferment accrues interest at a 12% annual percentage rate assessed on the Official Reporting Date of the Fall/Spring/Summer term. The deferment has a $5.00 origination fee. A late fee charge of $25.00 will apply if outstanding debt is not paid in full by due date. The deferment is due and payable no later than the 45th calendar of the term in a regular Fall/Spring term or the 45th Day of the Summer term. The deferment is due and payable no later than the 30th calendar day of a short term such as the summer or other special terms; or the last day of the session, whichever occurs earlier. Requires that any credits to the account (financial aid, etc) must first be applied to the unpaid balance of the deferment. Book Loan: Is for the exact amount of $400.00 per regular term, such as fall/spring terms. Is for the one-time exact amount of $200.00 for the summer term, regardless of how many sessions in which the student is enrolled. Has a $5.00 non-refundable origination fee. Is due by the 60th calendar day of a regular fall/spring term; and Is due by the 30th calendar day of a short term. Requires that any credits to the account (financial aid, etc) must first be applied to the unpaid balance of the loan. Book Loan balances will be adjusted each term between the 20th and 30th day of classes. Related Links Financial Aid FAQs University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies