Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Operations Research and Engineering Management About OREM About OREM Why Operations Research and Engineering Management? Message from the Chair Mission & Objectives Contact Us Open Positions Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs M.S./MBA Dual Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Weekend Format Master's Programs Student Learning Outcomes Senior Design Archive Courses Research Research Faculty Research Areas People Seminars and Gatherings Seminars and Gatherings Invited Seminars Doctoral Defenses INFORMS Student Chapter News & Events ☰ Operations Research and Engineering Management Operations Research and Engineering Management Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs B.S. in Management Science Management science deals with the development of mathematically-based models for planning, managing, operating and decision-making. These models are used in the context of a variety of industrial and government applications that arise in supply chain, manufacturing, retail, healthcare, finance, defense, and nonprofit systems/organizations. In the EMIS curriculum, these methods are also applied to the design and management of efficient systems for producing goods and delivering services. The capstone course for the Bachelor of Science with a major in Management Science program is EMIS 4395 Senior Design. Instituted in the early 1980s, the course takes Management Science from the classroom into the Dallas community and beyond by sending student consultant teams to work on real-world problems in industry and government. You can view our Senior Design Archive here. More Info Minor in Management Science Students interested in earning a minor in Management Science should consult the department. The minor in Management Science operates concurrently with the bachelor’s degree. More Info Academics Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs M.S./MBA Dual Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Weekend Format Master's Programs Student Learning Outcomes Senior Design Archive Courses School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus