Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Instruction and Curriculum Leadership About Programs Students Faculty News Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Welcome! Mission and Guiding Principles Center for Rehabilitation and Employment Research UofM Center for Literacy Research and Practice A-Z List Take Action ICL Degrees Apply Now ICL Advising Contact Us Home ICL About ICL Welcome! Welcome to the Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Department of The University of Memphis. We offer challenging and relevant courses and degree programs to help you reach your intellectual and professional goals. We prepare you to be a leader within your education-related setting. We work to facilitate current and engaging instruction to meet your needs in a changing world. We have 32 full-time faculty members to teach, direct, and advise you. To apply to a program in our department, begin online at Admissions. If you have questions about a program or if you don't find what you are looking for on our site, please call us at 901.678.2365. We look forward to talking with you. We offer one undergraduate degree--a Bachelor of Science in Education (BSED) and four graduate degrees: the Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) the Master of Science (MS), the Educational Specialist (EdS) and the Doctor of Education (EdD). We also offer certificates in Applied Behavior Analysis, Instructional Design and Technology, and Urban Education. And we offer Endorsements for Reading Specialist and School Library Specialist. Learn more about our programs here and more about what degrees we offer here. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/10/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.