Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics University Initiatives Date July 8, 2020 2020-07-08 Media Contact Brian E. Clark [email protected] 401-863-1638 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Letter from President Paxson: Supporting Brown’s International Students President Christina H. Paxson wrote to the campus community about University opposition to new federal guidance on the Student and Exchange Visitor Program and how Brown can best support its international students. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — In the wake of new federal guidance on the Student and Exchange Visitor Program, Brown President Christina H. Paxson wrote to students, faculty and staff about the University’s opposition to the policy and how Brown can best support its international students. Issued by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) on July 6, the new guidance will prohibit international students from returning to or remaining in the United States if their colleges adopt online-only instruction for Fall 2020 or if students choose online-only instruction. “This new temporary rule is nothing short of cruel,” Paxson said. “It comes at a time when every student, regardless of their country of origin, should benefit from the maximum level of flexibility to pursue their studies in a manner that they or their institutions decide has the highest capacity to support their health and safety.” Brown is planning for a 2020-21 academic year that integrates both on-campus and remote instruction, should health and safety conditions allow. Under that approach, international students at Brown will be able to register for at least one in-person class, making it possible for them to remain in the country. Paxson said that would not be the case, however, in the event of a major resurgence of the virus in New England that forces the University to shift to fully online instruction. “In the coming weeks, assuming that the DHS rule remains in effect, we will work with faculty to develop plans to minimize the chance that any of our international students — undergraduate, graduate or medical — are forced to leave the country,” she said. This new temporary rule is nothing short of cruel. It comes at a time when every student, regardless of their country of origin, should benefit from the maximum level of flexibility to pursue their studies in a manner that they or their institutions decide has the highest capacity to support their health and safety. Christina H. Paxson Brown University President Paxson expressed support for legal action by Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to seek a temporary restraining order with a U.S. District Court to block the implementation of the new rule. She noted also that Brown is working with its peer institutions to identify additional ways to oppose the DHS policy. [Update 07/12/20: On Sunday, July 12, Brown joined 58 additional colleges and universities in filing an amicus brief in support of Harvard and MIT in the case. The brief argued that the new rule: (1) entirely fails to address the reliance that schools and students across the nation placed on the government’s March 13 Guidance, which afforded schools broad flexibility to navigate the current public health crisis; (2) entirely fails to consider the dilemmas schools and students will face in conforming to the new policy, and does not explain why those dilemmas are justified; (3) does not consider in any way the substantial compliance burden it imposes on schools; and (4) includes no reasoned explanation in support of the new policy.] The full text of Paxson's letter to the community is included below. ***** Supporting Brown’s International Students Dear Brown Community Members, Amid the ongoing global pandemic, new guidance for the Student and Exchange Visitor Program issued on July 6 by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security will prohibit international students from returning to or remaining in the United States if the colleges they attend adopt online-only instruction for Fall 2020, or if students choose online-only instruction. This new temporary rule is nothing short of cruel. It comes at a time when every student, regardless of their country of origin, should benefit from the maximum level of flexibility to pursue their studies in a manner that they or their institutions decide has the highest capacity to support their health and safety. The rule creates stark disadvantages for international students by placing the fate of their studies in the hands of an institution’s ability to plan for a virus that is wholly unpredictable. The rule is also a direct threat to public health. It will exert pressure on institutions to offer in-person classes, even if they have concluded that online instruction is best for the health of their communities. In this time of great uncertainty, every college and university should be free to make the choice of how to most safely provide education based on their own specific circumstances and the health guidelines in their states. For these reasons, I strongly support the actions taken today by Harvard and MIT seeking a temporary restraining order with a U.S. District Court to block the implementation of this new rule. Because Brown is planning a hybrid semester, with a blend of in-person and online courses, international students will be able to register for at least one in-person class, making it possible for them to remain in the country. However, this would not be the case if, in the event of a major resurgence of the virus in New England, Brown had to shift to fully online instruction. In the coming weeks, assuming that the DHS rule remains in effect, we will work with faculty to develop plans to minimize the chance that any of our international students—undergraduate, graduate or medical—are forced to leave the country. In terms of immediate steps for our students, Brown is monitoring and analyzing SEVP guidance and clarifications to ensure that all returning international students will be enrolled in the required level of in-person instruction as required by SEVP. The University’s Global Brown team has communicated directly with our international students and will support their decision-making in the context of the hybrid model of mixed in-person and online courses I announced Tuesday as part of Brown’s instructional approach for the 2020-21 year. We continue to support our international students, who are valued and wonderful members of our community, and we are working with our peers to identify ways to oppose the DHS policy. Sincerely, Christina H. Paxson President Tags COVID-19 Diversity and Inclusion President Related news: University Initiatives Brown adopts land acknowledgment, additional commitments to Native and Indigenous communities May 24, 2022 The acknowledgment is part of a set of commitments aimed at building a better understanding of the relationship between the University community, Indigenous peoples of the region and the land on which Brown is situated. Read Article Open details for Brown adopts land acknowledgment, additional commitments to Native and Indigenous communities University Initiatives In partnership with Providence’s Building Futures, Brown jump-starts careers in construction May 6, 2022 Over 15 years, more than 320 apprentices from Building Futures have trained at dozens of construction sites on Brown’s campus — providing them with the training they need to secure stable, well-paying careers. Read Article Open details for In partnership with Providence’s Building Futures, Brown jump-starts careers in construction University Initiatives Brown launches online-only master’s degree in public health February 23, 2022 An innovative new version of Brown’s MPH program, delivered exclusively online, will expand access to a top public health education for learners nationally and around the world. Read Article Open details for Brown launches online-only master’s degree in public health Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Letter from President Paxson: Supporting Brown’s International Students Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Supporting Brown’s International Students Bookmark this Page