Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the President President right arrow down arrow The President right arrow down arrow President's Cabinet Organizational Chart Inaugural Address The Office right arrow down arrow Governmental Relations Former Presidents First Lady right arrow down arrow Book: 'UC's First Ladies' Communications right arrow down arrow News Next: President's Report right arrow down arrow Next Report Fall 2019 Next Report Spring 2019 Next Report Fall 2018 Spring 2021 President's Report Statements Thought Leadership The Power of Vision Presidential Awards right arrow down arrow President's Award for Excellence right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients Honorary Degrees NEXT Innovation Scholars Priorities right arrow down arrow Strategic Direction Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact Next, Now Campaign Searches McMicken Working Group right arrow down arrow Report Contact Home » About UC » President » The Office » First Lady Set Navigation title in component Governmental Relations Former Presidents First Lady Book: 'UC's First Ladies' First Lady Dr. Jennifer Pinto Dr. Jennifer Pinto brings both experience in mental health and a passion for helping students to her role as First Lady. Dr. Pinto earned her bachelor’s degree in psychology from the University of Cincinnati and her doctorate from the School of Professional Psychology at Wright State University. She completed her internship at UC's Counseling Center and her post-doctoral training in neuropsychology at the University of Cincinnati’s Department of Psychiatry. She previously had a small private practice with a focus on Deaf and Hard of Hearing clients. Dr. Pinto enjoys reading, creative writing, and attending CCM’s musical theatre productions. She is also an active member of the Women's Club of the University of Cincinnati. President and Dr. Pinto have three children: Madeline, Rui, and Robert. Initiatives and Activities Student Wellness Dr. Pinto works closely with the Student Wellness Center to assist with their Stress Less Fest which includes various events during a week long program aimed to reduce stress around finals. Some events include Pancakes with the Pintos, Stress Less Coloring, Playing with Puppies, Yoga and Stress Slime creation. Bearcats Pantry and Career Closet The UC Bearcat Pantry and Career Closet provides free food, hygiene items & other supplies to students with food & other insecurities. The pantry also provides meal vouchers for use at campus dining. The Pantry's Carseer Closet aims to ensure students are prepared with business casual clothing as they work to obtain co-ops and other paying positions. Deaf Awareness Since she is fluent in ASL, Dr. Pinto enjoys interacting with the ASL Club on campus and being actively involved in their programing and events. Here is our mascot signing Bearcat! 1MPACT House and Gen-1 Students 1MPACT House is a living-learning center built on the success of ten years of University of Cincinnati's Gen-1 Program. Dr. Pinto enjoys staying connected with the students through supporting their events as well as activies such as cooking classes. Contact For inquiries or to request the First Lady’s attendance at your event please call the Office of the President at (513) 556-2201. Email: firstlady@uc.edu Twitter: @UCFirstLady Office of the President University of Cincinnati 625 University Pavilion 2618 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, OH 45221-0063 513-556-2201 president@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the President University of Cincinnati 625 University Pavilion 2618 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, OH 45221-0063 513-556-2201 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top