Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Menu College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Online Learning Open Search Bar Search Submit search Main navigation Home Programs Courses Non-credit Steps to Apply Computer Requirements Community Development M.S. Making communities equitable, sustainable, and just. Required credits: 36 The specialization in Community Development at Iowa State is offered through the interdisciplinary graduate degree. This program is currently transitioning to a Master of Community Development (MCD) through Iowa State and is no longer accepting students as a member of the Great Plains IDEA. This online degree is for community leaders, practitioners, and for those committed to people and places. This program provides the skills, information, and networks needed to facilitate sustainable and prosperous community change, while equipping practitioners with the tools necessary to build a community for the 21st century. We welcome those working in all areas to help communities and regions build their capacity for an inclusive, sustainable future. We welcome those who volunteer their time and resources to support community. Most of all we welcome those with a passion for working toward a brighter future and a willingness to share their experience and wisdom with others via our Internet community. To apply, please follow the guidelines set by the Interdisciplinary Graduate Studies Program. Please note you will select Community Development as your specialization. Program requirements Recommended courses Program at a Glance Learn to initiate social action processes and maintain balance to improve social, economic, cultural, and environmental situations. Designed for people doing community development work in non-profit organizations, colleges, communities, community organizations and governments. Empower people to work together for a common future In depth exploration of resource management and regional economic analysis Program requires 36 credits. Tuition & Fees per Credit Calculating Cost Start Your Adventure First name Last name Email Program - Select -Agricultural Education M.S.Agronomy Graduate CertificateAgronomy M.S.Biochemistry Graduate CertificatesBreeding for Organic Crops Graduate CertificateCommunity Development M.S.Education and Outreach in Agricultural and Natural Resources Graduate CertificateFood Safety and Defense Graduate CertificateMeat Science Graduate CertificateOccupational Safety Undergraduate CertificatePlant Breeding M.S.Seed Science and Technology, Seed Business Management Graduate CertificateSeed Technology and Business M.S.Swine Science Online Certificate Question or request Submit Leave this field blank Associates College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Online Learning College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Brenton Center 206 Curtiss Hall Ames, IA 50011-1054 agonlineservices@iastate.edu Copyright Information Copyright © Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Legal and Privacy Links Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information