Skip to main content Search for people, departments & websites Submit keywords Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Main navigation expanded Admissions Academics Research Campus Life About News You are here: Home About Columbia About Columbia University Mission Statement Columbia University is one of the world's most important centers of research and at the same time a distinctive and distinguished learning environment for undergraduates and graduate students in many scholarly and professional fields. The University recognizes the importance of its location in New York City and seeks to link its research and teaching to the vast resources of a great metropolis. It seeks to attract a diverse and international faculty and student body, to support research and teaching on global issues, and to create academic relationships with many countries and regions. It expects all areas of the University to advance knowledge and learning at the highest level and to convey the products of its efforts to the world. Earl Hall in Autumn Statistics and Facts Looking for a statistical snapshot of the University? Find all the basic facts and figures about Columbia here. Visiting Columbia's Campuses Find information on visiting Columbia's Morningside Heights and medical center campuses, and learn more about available tours and neighboring communities. University Administration The University's governance is directed by the 24-member Board of Trustees and by the University Senate. Financial Overview Information about the University’s financial statements and the endowment, with links to financial reports and other resources. Office of the President Columbia is led by President Lee C. Bollinger. University Senate A University-wide legislature, representing faculty, students, and other constituencies. For more than 250 years, Columbia has been a leader in higher education in the nation and around the world. Learn Our History Academics Campus Life Research Columbia News Upcoming Events Jun1Wed Register for Summer Fitness at Dodge! Dodge Fitness Center, 3030 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Jun1Wed Understanding Dementia: What to Know and How CaringKind Can Help Online 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM America/New_York Jun1Wed CTLgrads Summer Bookclub - Ungrading (2020) by Susan Blum Butler Library, 535 W. 114 St., New York, NY 10027 204 2:00 PM - 3:15 PM America/New_York More Events Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close