Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Programs Connell School of Nursing Graduate Programs Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Connell School of Nursing The William F. Connell School of Nursing offers a Master of Science (M.S.) degree program, preparing individuals to become advanced generalists or nurse anesthetists; a Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) degree program, preparing individuals for advanced nursing practice as nurse practitioners or nurse anesthetists; and a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degree program, preparing highly qualified individuals for research and leadership roles in nursing, health care, research, and academic settings. Accreditation The Connell School of Nursing programs are nationally accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE). For additional information, visit the CCNE website. The Nurse Anesthesia program is accredited by the Council of Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs. Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Connell School of Nursing Faculty Connell School of Nursing Website Doctor of Philosophy Degree Program with a Major in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice Degree Program Master of Science Degree Program with a Major in Nursing General Information Doctor of Philosophy Degree Program with a Major in Nursing The Ph.D. in Nursing Program emphasizes knowledge development and research to advance nursing science and improve the health of individuals, families, and communities. For the program objectives, please refer to the student handbook. The Ph.D. program includes two phases: coursework and dissertation. After finishing the required coursework, the student completes a comprehensive examination. The purpose of the Ph.D. Comprehensive Examination is to demonstrate mastery of the program objectives through written and oral responses to questions related to knowledge development, research methods, substantive knowledge, ethical judgment, nursing/healthcare issues, and health policy. After successful completion of the Ph.D. Comprehensive Examination, the student moves to the dissertation phase, in which the student develops and conducts original dissertation research. The Ph.D. program and defense of the final dissertation must be completed within eight years of initial enrollment. Policies and procedures are consistent with those of the University. Consistent with the recommendations of leading professional organizations, full-time doctoral study is highly recommended. Fellowships, scholarships, and other financial resources are available to full-time Ph.D. students through the Connell School of Nursing (CSON), Boston College, professional nursing organizations, and governmental agencies (e.g., HRSA, NIH, and NINR). The full-time plan of study allows students to complete required coursework in two years; some students may take longer to complete required coursework or may need to take additional coursework. Most full-time students complete the entire Ph.D. program in four to five years. Part-time students usually take longer to complete the degree. The entire Ph.D. program, including dissertation research and defense, must be completed within eight years. Low student-to-faculty ratios and research mentorship facilitate student success and program completion in a reasonable amount of time. Multiple resources for scholarly development are available within the Connell School of Nursing, the University, our consortium University partners, and through research collaborations with research and clinical academic centers of the Greater Boston area. The Ph.D. program offers a variety of learning opportunities through course work, CSON forums, interdisciplinary colloquia, and collaborations through the Harvard Catalyst, independent study, and research practice. An individualized plan of study is developed according to the student’s educational background, research interests, and stage of development in scholarly activities. Print Open All Close All Program of Study Program of Study A minimum of forty-eight (48) credits are required to complete the Ph.D. degree. Additional credits and course work may be needed, depending upon the student’s background, previous graduate training, and area of research interest. Substantive content expertise is acquired by taking cognates and elective courses in the area of interest. The research component of the program includes qualitative and quantitative research methods, statistics, research seminars, research practice and experiences, and dissertation development and advisement. The list of courses in the Ph.D. program of study can be found in the Ph.D. Student Handbook. Ph.D. Funding Ph.D. Funding There are three major sources of funding for full-time students in the doctoral program in nursing at Boston College. University Fellowships are awarded to eligible full-time students each year on a competitive basis. Full tuition and a stipend are provided for up to three years as long as the student maintains good academic standing and demonstrates progress toward the Ph.D. Research Assistant positions may be available through faculty research grants. Teaching Assistant positions are available within the Connell School of Nursing. Additional grants and scholarship opportunities are available on an individual basis. Students are encouraged to apply for a competitive individual National Research Service Award to assist with tuition and to provide a stipend. Career Opportunities Career Opportunities Graduates of the Ph.D. program often seek positions in academic settings or in health care, industry, government, or other settings where research is conducted. Some Ph.D. graduates continue on to complete post-doctoral fellowships at research centers located at universities, government, or health care agencies. Doctor of Nursing Practice Degree Program The Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) program is a terminal nursing practice degree emphasizing holistic and compassionate care in the preparation of advanced practice nurses. The DNP program prepares advanced practice nurses with the knowledge and skill for providing comprehensive primary care to patients, families, communities, and populations within our complex and ever-changing health care system. With a focus on innovative and effective leadership, evidence-based practice, quality improvement, and a systems approach to care, the DNP advanced practice nurse is equipped to become an expert nurse leader in improving health outcomes. The DNP program builds upon and integrates core course work in Epidemiology, Health Care Policy for Nursing Practice Leaders, Healthcare Information Technology Management, Program Planning and Evaluation for Population Health, Healthcare Quality Management, as well as the three P’s (Advanced Physiology and Pathophysiology Across the Life Span, Advanced Health/Physical Assessment Across the Life Span, Pharmacotherapeutics in Advanced Practice Nursing) throughout the curriculum and clinical practicum courses. A focus on the history of nursing science, nursing’s ethical responsibilities, as well as a strong foundation in evidence-based practice, culminates in the development of a student-led, innovative practice improvement or change project (DNP project). Print Open All Close All DNP Areas of Specialization DNP Areas of Specialization Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner A graduate of the Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner specialty program is able to manage the health care of adolescents, adults, and older adults, providing interventions to promote optimal health across a wide range of settings. Graduates serve as advanced practice nurses in a variety of health care settings including hospitals, clinics, health maintenance organizations, hospices, home care, and community-based medical practices, and they can pursue national certification (through organizations such as the American Nurses Credentialing Center) as an Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner. Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist (CRNA) The Nurse Anesthesia Program is a collaborative effort between the William F. Connell School of Nursing and Anesthesia Associates of Massachusetts. The curriculum design takes advantage of the core courses common to all DNP nursing specialties. In addition, students learn the advanced physiologic and pharmacologic principles specific to nurse anesthesia practice. The Nurse Anesthesia program of study includes 48 credits of core courses and 51 credits of specialty and theory clinical practicum. Clinical practices take place at the varied facilities where Anesthesia Associates of Massachusetts provide services and give students broad hands-on experience. The 36-month full-time curriculum is accredited by the Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs; graduates are eligible to sit for the National Certification Examination of the Council on Certification. The Nurse Anesthesia Program is accredited through June 2026 by the Council on Accreditation (COA) for Nurse Anesthesia Programs. The list of courses can be found in the DNP Student Handbook. Family Nurse Practitioner A graduate of the Family Nurse Practitioner specialty program is able to deliver primary care to individuals, families, and communities across a broad range of racial/ethnic, socioeconomic, geographic, and age/development strata. Graduates can serve as Family Nurse Practitioners in a variety of health care settings, including ambulatory settings, wellness centers, home health agencies, occupational health sites, senior centers, homeless shelters, and migrant camps. Graduates can pursue national certification (through organizations such as the American Nurses Credentialing Center) as a Family Nurse Practitioner. Pediatric Primary Care Nurse Practitioner A graduate of the Pediatric Primary Care Nurse Practitioner specialty program is able to provide a wide range of primary and secondary health services for children from infancy through adolescence. Graduates can serve as a Pediatric Nurse Practitioner in a variety of health care agencies and community settings. Graduates can pursue national certification (through the American Nurses Credentialing Center or the National Certification Board of Pediatric Nurse Associates and Practitioners) as a Pediatric Primary Care Nurse Practitioner. Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurse Practitioner A graduate of the Family Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurse Practitioner specialty program is able to conduct psychotherapy with individuals across the life span, groups, and families. Graduates can also function as case managers for persons with psychiatric disorders, provide psychiatric consultation to primary care providers, serve as Psychiatric-Mental Health Specialists in a variety of settings, including out-patient, partial hospitalization, day treatment, and community-based intervention programs. Graduates are eligible to seek national certification (through organizations such as the American Nurses Credentialing Center) as a Family Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurse Practitioner or Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurse Practitioner and can apply for prescriptive authority in many states (including Massachusetts). Women’s Health Nurse Practitioner A graduate of the Women’s Health Nurse Practitioner specialty program is able to provide direct care to meet women’s unique concerns and health needs across the life span. Graduates can also serve as a Women’s Health Nurse Practitioner inside or outside of formal health care agencies and institutions. Graduates can pursue national certification as a Women’s Health Nurse Practitioner offered by national programs such as the National Certification Corporation. Program Entry Options Program Entry Options Direct Entry Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) The Direct Entry Doctor of Nursing Practice program is an accelerated program designed for individuals who have a baccalaureate degree or higher in fields other than nursing who wish to pursue preparation as an advanced practice nurse. The Direct Entry DNP provides a seamless, integrated curriculum to prepare students for license as registered nurses and for certification as advanced practice nurses. In this program, students complete extensive prerequisite courses prior to enrollment. They study and complete advanced generalist nursing requirements on an intensive full-time basis during the first five semesters of the program. Students will meet both the AACN Essentials of Baccalaureate Education for Professional Nursing Practice and the AACN Essentials of Master’s Education in Nursing during the five semester pre-licensure portion of the program. A Master of Science in Nursing as an Advanced Generalist is conferred upon successful completion of the pre-licensure coursework, whereupon students are eligible to sit for the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX-RN). The pre-licensure component of the program consists of 57 academic credits. After passing the NCLEX-RN exam and receiving a license as a registered nurse, students then proceed into the doctoral level coursework in one of the following nurse practitioner specialty areas of practice: Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner, Family Nurse Practitioner, Pediatric Primary Care Nurse Practitioner, Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurse Practitioner, and Women’s Health Nurse Practitioner. In order to progress to nurse practitioner study (doctoral level), students must be in good academic standing and be licensed as registered nurses. The program includes a clinical project associated practicum, a minimum of 750 direct patient care clinical hours, and an additional 49–52 credits following conferral of the pre-licensure master’s degree. Applicants are reviewed and accepted into the clinical specialty program to which they apply and are assigned a clinical placement year at that time. Students are permitted to slow down and attend part-time during the nurse practitioner component. To do so, they should contact the graduate office to find out when a clinical seat would be available. Students who wish to change specialty programs must contact the graduate office, the two program directors, and must apply to the new specialty. Acceptance is not guaranteed and may slow completion of the degree as the clinical year is assigned on a space available basis. Direct Entry program students are not eligible to apply to the nurse anesthesia program because admission to this program requires a minimum of one-year of experience as a registered nurse in an intensive care (ICU) setting. Post-Baccalaureate Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) The Post-Baccalaureate DNP provides a seamless, integrated curriculum to prepare registered nurses for certification as advanced practice nurses. This program, designed for individuals who hold baccalaureate degree in nursing and wish to specialize in one of the following specialty practice areas: Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner, Family Nurse Practitioner, Pediatric Primary Care Nurse Practitioner, Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurse Practitioner, and Women’s Health Nurse Practitioner, can be completed on a full or part-time basis. The program includes a clinical project associated practicum, a minimum of 750 direct patient care clinical practice hours, and 71–74 (PMHNP) academic credits. Post-Master’s Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) The Post-Master’s DNP program is designed for currently practicing master’s prepared advanced practice nurse practitioners who wish to complete a terminal practice degree program. Following a complete portfolio review and building on prior clinical knowledge and experience, students will focus on innovative core class work in healthcare quality, safety, informatics, and policy. Building on a foundation of evidence-based practice knowledge, students will develop and lead an innovative practice improvement or change project. The program includes a project associated practicum which is individualized based on the results of the portfolio review and a minimum of 30 academic credits. RN (ASN) to Doctor to Nursing Practice (DNP) The RN to DNP program is designed for the associate degree prepared registered nurse who wishes to become an advanced practice nurse and specialize in one of the following specialty practice areas: Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner, Family Nurse Practitioner, Pediatric Primary Care Nurse Practitioner, Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurse Practitioner, and Women’s Health Nurse Practitioner. Following a complete portfolio review, an individualized curriculum of classroom and clinical content will be developed. Students entering by this route will be required to complete bridge course work prior to beginning the DNP curriculum. This program can be completed on a full or part-time basis. A minimum of 750 direct patient care hours and another 250 of indirect care hours which will be included in the DNP project. Credit hours are dependent on results of the individual portfolio review. Master of Science Degree Program with a Major in Nursing The graduate of the master’s program is prepared as an advanced generalist nurse with disciplinary knowledge and skill to provide culturally sensitive, safe, and high-quality care. The graduate will improve the delivery of care through leadership, mentorship, and evidence-based practice. The graduate will have met the AACN Essentials of Master’s Education in Nursing. The graduate without a baccalaureate degree in nursing will have met the AACN Essentials of Baccalaureate Education for Professional Nursing Practice and will be eligible to sit for the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX-RN). Program objectives can be found in the Master's Student Handbook. Print Open All Close All Program Entry Options Program Entry Options Post-Baccalaureate Advanced Generalist The Post-Baccalaureate Master of Science in Nursing, Advanced Generalist is designed for bachelor’s prepared registered nurses. This program is designed for current nurses to advance into nursing leadership roles. Students will meet the AACN Essentials of Master’s Education in Nursing. The Advanced Generalist Master’s (AGM) program utilizes evidence-based practice to improve the delivery of care through leadership and mentorship culminating in a clinical experience in advanced generalist practice. This program consists of 31 credits. Direct Entry Advanced Generalist The Direct Entry Master of Science in Nursing, Advanced Generalist program is an accelerated program designed for individuals who have a baccalaureate degree or higher in fields other than nursing who wish to pursue preparation as a registered nurse. The Direct Entry Advanced Generalist Master’s (AGM) program provides a seamless, integrated curriculum to prepare students for license as registered nurses with enhanced content in healthcare quality, informatics, nursing leadership and policy. In this program, students complete extensive prerequisite courses prior to acceptance and enrollment. They study and complete generalist nursing requirements on an intensive full-time basis during the five semesters of the program. Students will meet both the AACN Essentials of Baccalaureate Education for Professional Nursing Practice and the AACN Essentials of Master’s Education in Nursing during the five semester program. A Master of Science in Nursing as an Advanced Generalist is conferred upon successful completion of the pre-licensure coursework, whereupon students are eligible to sit for the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX-RN). The pre-licensure component of the program consists of 57 academic credits. The list of courses in the Direct Entry Master’s Advanced Generalist program can be found in the Master's Student Handbook. For further details, please visit bc.edu/nursing. RN (ASN) to M.S., Advanced Generalist The RN to Master of Science in Nursing, Advanced Generalist is designed for associate’s prepared registered nurses. This program is designed for current nurses to advance into registered nurse leadership roles. Students will meet the AACN Essentials of Master’s Education in Nursing. The Advanced Generalist Master’s (AGM) program utilizes evidence-based practice to improve the delivery of care through leadership and mentorship culminating in a clinical experience in advanced generalist practice. Following a complete portfolio review, an individualized curriculum of classroom and clinical content will be developed. Students entering by this route will be required to complete bridge course work prior to beginning the master’s curriculum. Credit hours are dependent on the results of the individual portfolio review. Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist (CRNA) The Nurse Anesthesia Program is a collaborative effort between the William F. Connell School of Nursing and Anesthesia Associates of Massachusetts. The curriculum design takes advantage of the core courses common to all master’s degree nursing specialties. In addition, students learn the advanced physiologic and pharmacologic principles specific to nurse anesthesia practice. The Nurse Anesthesia program of study includes 21 credits of core courses and 49 credits of specialty and theory clinical practicum. Clinical practica take place at the varied facilities where Anesthesia Associates of Massachusetts provide services and give students broad hands-on experience. The 27-month full-time curriculum is accredited by the Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs; graduates are eligible to sit for the National Certification Examination of the Council on Certification. The Nurse Anesthesia Program was re-accredited in 2015 by the Council on Accreditation (COA) for Nurse Anesthesia Programs. The list of courses can be found in the Master’s Student Handbook. Electives Electives Elective course options within the Connell School of Nursing include: NURS7524 Master’s Research Practicum; NURS7525 Integrative Review of Nursing Research; and graduate level independent study. Additional elective courses are offered in forensic nursing, global health, sexual health, and interdisciplinary approaches to palliative care. Other relevant graduate level elective courses are available in other schools or departments at Boston College. Independent Study is recommended for students who have a particular interest that is not addressed in required courses in the curriculum. Other electives are available through the consortium. Non-Degree (Special Student) Non-Degree (Special Student) The Special Student status is for non-matriculated students with a bachelor’s degree in nursing who are not seeking a degree but are interested in pursuing course work at the graduate level. Persons interested in this option must apply and be admitted as a non-degree student to the Connell School of Nursing, Graduate Programs before registering for courses. Some courses are restricted to matriculated students only; other courses allow enrollment on a space-available basis. Cooperating Health Agencies Cooperating Health Agencies Our programs utilize numerous and diverse practice settings in the city of Boston, the greater metropolitan area, and eastern New England. Sites are selected to offer rich experiences for developing advanced competencies in the nursing specialty. Community agencies include the Boston VNA, mental health centers, general health centers, community health centers, college health clinics, public health departments, visiting nurse associations, health maintenance organizations, nurse practitioners in private practice, and home care agencies. Additional settings include hospice, homeless shelters, schools, prisons, and Boston Veterans Administration (VA) health services. Selected major teaching hospitals used include Massachusetts General Hospital, Beth Israel-Deaconess Medical Center, McLean Hospital, Brigham and Women’s Hospital, Boston Medical Center, and Boston Children’s Hospital. Admission Requirements Admission Requirements For all admissions requirements, please visit the Connell School of Nursing website at the How to Apply page. General Information Read below for more information regarding graduate study at the Connell School of Nursing. Print Open All Close All Graduate Academic Policies in the Connell School of Nursing Graduate Academic Policies in the Connell School of Nursing Academic Integrity Students are expected to have high standards of integrity in both the academic and clinical settings. CSON adheres to the Boston College policies surrounding academic integrity. This policy may be accessed online at the Policies and Procedures section of this Catalog. Expected ethical behavior in clinical situations is based on the American Nurses’ Association Code of Ethics for Nurses (ANA, 2001, 2010). Students are expected to protect patients’ confidentiality at all times, and to be honest in any documentation regarding the patient’s condition and their own assessments and interventions. Students are expected to maintain high professional standards, including being physically, intellectually, emotionally, and academically prepared when caring for patients. Unprofessional conduct is considered serious and may result in dismissal from the school. Graduate Academic Standing and Progression Policies The Graduate Academic Standards Committee, composed of professors responsible for the NURS courses in the graduate program, meets at the end of each semester to review the records of master’s students with course failures, course deficiencies, low GPAs, or other academic concerns. This Committee makes recommendations about progression in the program in accordance with the policies described below and other relevant university policies. Final progression decisions are made and implemented by the Graduate Associate Dean. Graduate students are expected to maintain good academic standing at all times and progress through their program of study. Those who are not in good academic standing or are not progressing are subject to review by the Graduate Academic Standards and Progression Committee. All graduate students in the William F. Connell School of Nursing are expected to maintain a GPA of 3.0 in order to remain in good academic standing. The minimum acceptable passing grade for graduate courses is a B- (80). Students will undergo academic review if they have a GPA of less than 3.0 or earn a grade less than a B- (80) in a course. If a student does not meet the minimum of a B- in any graduate NURS course, the student will be required to retake the course before advancing in the curriculum. Additionally, the student will be placed on academic probation for the upcoming semester. Graduate students may repeat a nursing course only once after withdrawing from it or not achieving a B-. Graduate students who are on probation are not eligible for teaching assistantships, research assistantships, fellowships, and/or any type of merit-based tuition remission award. Students will be dismissed from the School of Nursing after two nursing (NURS) course failures. Graduate students who demonstrate unsafe clinical practice or unprofessional conduct in clinical, classroom settings, and/or interactions with BC faculty or staff will undergo academic review and may be dismissed from the program. Unsafe clinical practice and/or unprofessional conduct are grounds for failure in any clinical course and may result in immediate removal from the clinical site. The Graduate Associate Dean will notify the student of the outcome of academic review as soon as possible. If the student is dissatisfied with the decision, the student may submit a formal appeal. For the procedure for graduate student grievances and the formal appeals procedure, please refer to the student handbook: Master's Student Handbook DNP Student Handbook Ph.D. Student Handbook Transfer of Credits Transfer of Credits Matriculated graduate students may request permission to transfer in up to six (6) credits of graduate course work completed at another regionally accredited graduate university prior to matriculation. Only courses completed within the past five years that were not applied to a prior degree and in which the student earned a grade 80 (B-) or better can be considered for transfer. Matriculated students are not permitted to take courses outside of Boston College, other than through the Consortium. Core courses that were taken prior to matriculation may be considered on a case-by-case basis. Students will not be allowed to transfer in more than six (6) credits towards their degree. To request to have an outside course considered for transfer, the student must provide a copy of the course description for electives and course syllabus for core courses to the graduate office. Core nursing courses that were taken prior to matriculation at Boston College must be reviewed for equivalency by the TOR for the core course at Boston College and approved by the TOR and the graduate associate dean (forms in the appendix and on the CSON website). If approved, the student must submit a final official transcript documenting a grade of B or better to the graduate office for processing. The transfer course and credit, but not a grade, will be recorded on the student's transcript after the student has successfully completed one full semester at Boston College. Electives/cognates may be approved by the faculty advisor. Time to Degree Completion Time to Degree Completion Students in the M.S. program have five (5) years from initial enrollment to complete their program of study. Students in the DNP program have eight (8) years from initial enrollment to complete their program of study. Students in the Ph.D. program have eight (8) years from initial enrollment to complete all degree requirements, including defending and submitting the final version of the dissertation. Graduate students may apply for a leave of absence (LOA) for personal reasons, health reasons, or other extenuating circumstances. LOAs are usually granted for one semester; a two semester LOA may be granted under unusual circumstances. Leaves of Absence do not “stop the clock” or extend the program time limits. An exception is made for graduate students who require an LOA due to active military service. Students should contact the Graduate Associate Dean. Graduate students who exceed the program time limits or who fail to make progress towards their degree will be reviewed by the Graduate Academic Standards and Progressions Committee and may be subject to dismissal from the program. Financial Aid Financial Aid Applicants and students should refer to the Connell School of Nursing web page for Financial Aid resources at the Admission and Aid page. Refer to the Financial Aid section of this Catalog for additional information regarding other financial aid information. Housing Housing The Boston College Off-Campus Housing Office offers assistance to graduate students in procuring living arrangements. Please refer to the Off-Campus Housing website. Transportation Transportation Precepted clinical practices are held in a wide variety of hospitals, clinics, and health-related agencies and are a vital part of the graduate nursing program. Most of the clinical facilities are located in the greater Metropolitan Boston area, although some are located in the suburbs, eastern Massachusetts, southern New Hampshire, and Rhode Island. Students are responsible for providing their own transportation to and from the clinical facilities. Graduate Program Contacts in the Connell School of Nursing Graduate Program Contacts in the Connell School of Nursing The Dean of the School of Nursing is responsible for the overall administration of the school. Katherine E. Gregory, Ph.D., RN, FAAN Dean Office: Maloney 294 Telephone: 617-552-4251 The Associate Deans are responsible for academic and financial administration. Susan Kelly-Weeder, Ph.D., FNP-BC, FAANP, FAAN Associate Dean for Graduate Programs Office: Maloney 220 Telephone: 617-552-8018 Christopher Grillo Associate Dean for Finance and Administration Office: Maloney 294 Telephone: 617-552-8531 The Program Directors are responsible for the direct oversight of their respective APRN programs. Graduate Clinical Specialty Program Directors Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Program: Kellie LaPierre, DNP, GNP-C Office: Maloney 370 Telephone: 617-552-4270 Family Primary Care Program: Patricia Underwood, Ph.D., FNP, RN Office: Maloney 373A Telephone: 617-552-1846 Pediatric Primary Care Program: Laura White, Ph.D., M.S., RN, CPNP, PMHNP-BC Office: Maloney 361A Telephone: 617-552-1630 Psychiatric-Mental Health Program: Victor Petreca, Ph.D., DNP, PMHNP-BC, CNP Office: Maloney 378B Telephone: 617-552-0194 Women’s Health Program: Erin Murphy-Swenson, DNP, MSN, BSN Office: Maloney 368 Telephone: 617-552-1246 Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist Program: Susan Emery, Ph.D., CRNA Office: Maloney 234 Telephone: 617-552-6844 Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College