Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Registrar Academic Advising Academic Ceremonies Academic Ceremonies Fall Rotunda Passage May Commencement Opening Convocation December Rotunda Recessional December Commencement Spring Rotunda Passage Honors Convocation May Baccalaureate Service May Rotunda Recessional May Commencement Degree Honors Degree Honors Inserts Graduation & Diploma Services About Us Academic Records Academic Records Degree Honors Enrollment Rules Honor Roll Progress Grades Viewing Your Grades GPA Calculator Graduation Honors Inserts Transcript Requests Transfer Credit Legal Process Enrollment Information Enrollment Information Fall Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Summer Enrollment Information Master of Science in Data Science Program Waitlist Guidelines Common Curriculum Online Course Evaluation Course Listings Help Enrollment Policy Exception Frequently Asked Questions Final Exam Schedule The General Education Curriculum Grade Posting Schedule University Curriculum View Textbooks Online Contact Us Contact Us Virtual Office Information SMU Links SMU Links Site Index About SMU Access and Equity Administration Bursar Calendars Campus Directory Clery Report Enrollment Services Financial Aid Giving Libraries Maps Meadows Museum Information Technology Registrar Search Student Affairs Webmail ☰ Enrollment Services Registrar MSDS Program MSDS Program Welcome to SMU! The University Registrar's Office welcomes you to Southern Methodist University. This page is specifically designed for students who have been approved for the Master of Science in Data Science program. If you need more information about this academic program, please visit http://datascience.smu.edu/. SMU ID and Email Once you've been admitted to the Master of Science in Data Science program, you will receive a letter from Admissions that contains your SMU ID and SMU email. This letter will give you instructions on how to activate your account in my.SMU and set your password. If you've not already activated your account, you should do so. MSDS Academic Calendar http://www.smu.edu/EnrollmentServices/Registrar/AcademicCalendarsCourseCatalogs/AcademicCalendars Enrollment Information Beginning in Spring 2015, students will be enrolled in courses by the University Registrar’s Office. Before you can be enrolled, you will need to read and agree to the Student Rights and Responsibilities which consists of 1) Financial Rights & Responsibilities, 2) Honor Code & Student Code of Conduct, and 3) Appeals & Complaints. You will be sent an email regarding this prior to your first semester of enrollment. Students are required to agree to this every semester before they can be enrolled. If you need to drop a course or withdraw, please see below. (NOTE: Please refer to the Academic Calendar for important deadlines located at http://www.smu.edu/EnrollmentServices/Registrar/AcademicCalendarsCourseCatalogs/AcademicCalendars.) Drop a course Login to my.SMU and click on Student Center. Follow steps in the online tutorial located at http://www.smu.edu/BusinessFinance/OIT/Training/accessself. Click on Students. Click on Full Student Essentials Course. Click Enroll. Click Drop Classes from My Schedule. (The online tutorial explains how to do this in my.SMU.) Withdraw from Program Students cannot withdraw from the University online. You must contact one of the Executive Program Directors. University Registrar’s Office will be notified and process the withdrawal. Holds If you have a hold, you will be able to view the hold in my.SMU Log in to my.SMU. Click on Student Center. Holds will be listed in the upper right-hand corner. Click on the Details link. Click on the link for the hold to see instructions. Personal Information Update You are required to review and/or update their Personal Information annually. That is, addresses, phone numbers, emergency contact information, and demographic data. You will be sent an email with instructions reminding you to do this. You will be prevented from enrolling if your information is insufficient or outdated. Student Rights and Responsibilities Each term you must read and agree to the terms of the Student Financial Rights and Responsibilities agreement. This document addresses the student financial obligation and tuition repayment agreement as well as the withdrawal policy, failure to pay, collections for nonpayment, etc. You may not enroll for classes until you have agreed to the terms of this document. FERPA/Confidentiality of Account Your education records are maintained in a secure and confidential manner. More information regarding FERPA can be found on our FERPA webpage. Enrollment Verifications Should you need to obtain an Enrollment Verification while pursuing your degree, click here for more information. Transcript Requests You may request an official transcript in the Student Center of my.SMU. Click here for more information. Veteran Benefits Do you plan to use VA benefits while pursuing your degree? If so, visit our Veterans webpage for specific information. Please note that Yellow Ribbon is not available for students pursuing the MSDS program. Graduation The University Registrar would like to personally invite you to participate in the commencement ceremony after you complete your degree. Visit our Academic Ceremonies webpage for specific information. Questions? Send an email to enrol_services@smu.edu Contact us at 214-768-3417 Registrar Academic Advising Calendars and Course Catalogs Registrar Office Teams Academic Ceremonies Academic Records Credit by Examination Alumni and Former Students Confidentiality FERPA Securing & Protecting Student Records Current Students Degree Verifications Class Schedule and Enrollment Information Faculty and Staff FAQs Forms Library Graduation & Diploma Services History SMU Honor Roll Registrar's Office Marketplace Preferred Name & Name Change Non-Degree and Visiting Students NCAA Academic Certification Summer School Transcript Requests Transfer and Transition Services Transfer Credit Veterans Affairs Contact Us Student Quicklinks my.SMU Request Transcript Course Catalog Final Exam Schedule University Curriculum Student Records Forms Preferred Name Honor Roll Important Messages to Students Student Appeals and Petitions Student Rights and Responsibilities Syllabus Library Transfer Credit/Equivalency Webpay Master of Science in Data Science Program Faculty/Staff Quicklinks my.SMU Enrollment Reporting Final Exam Schedule Forms Library: SR Forms (Public) Forms Library: SR Forms (Restricted) Important Messages to Faculty Policies and Procedures [Login] SR Policies & Procedures View all DES P&P Procedures- New Course/Prog Room Scheduling Syllabus Library Enrollment and Scheduling - Advanced Users Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share