Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Centers & Initiatives Center for International Business Education and Research Home » Centers & Initiatives » Center for International Business Education and Research » Center for International Business Education and Research Menu Centers & Initiatives Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results (TI:GER Program) The Georgia Tech Center for International Business (CIBER), created in 1993, is one of the 15 national resource centers for excellence international business funded by the U.S. Department of Education. It is administratively located in the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business and collaborates with the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts. Our mission as a CIBER is to ensure the long-term international economic competitiveness of the United States through the support of research, business education initiatives, and corporate outreach activities. Georgia Tech CIBER Activities Funding research in the field of International Business (IB) Encouraging the development of IB curricular initiatives Hosting conferences, colloquia, and fora related to global business Working with the local globally focused business community Facilitating overseas educational opportunities for business students Georgia Tech CIBER Guiding Principles Capitalize on the strengths and competencies of Georgia Tech as a leading technological university. Serve as a national pedagogical model of internationalization for business schools embedded in technology-oriented universities. Leverage the extensive network of international business assets and connections in the Atlanta metro. Devise broad-spectrum and innovative internationalization strategies through multidisciplinary programs, units, and research centers. Ensure greater infusion of business languages and global competence into interdisciplinary studies. Provide greater opportunities for students to gain international knowledge and experience. Assist faculty in building synergies between teaching, research, and other professional work with an international or comparative scope through goal-oriented consortia. Design initiatives that are relevant and responsive to the regional business community's economic development needs. Stress programs whose delivery is "portable" and have a lasting impact. Activities that maximize national and regional impact. News & Events Upcoming Events There are currently no upcoming events. News February 10, 2022 The Financial and Economic Ramifications of the Ukraine-Russia Conflict Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business faculty experts John McIntyre and Diane Alleva Cáceres provide insights into the Ukraine-Russia conflict and the economic and financial decisions facing affected countries. Read more March 02, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller’s CIBER Hosts First C-Suite Series Talk Featuring Christian Fischer, President and CEO of Georgia-Pacific Georgia Tech Scheller’s Center for International Business Education and Research (CIBER) kicks off its C-Suite Series with a talk featuring Christian Fischer, president and CEO of Georgia-Pacific. Read more January 16, 2020 Mondo Merkato Podcast Series from CIBER Invites Listeners to Learn More about International Business through Storytelling How does soft drink king Pepsi and the internationally renowned pop group ABBA trade with the Soviet Union when rubles are useless? How does Blockchain works outside the public image of being tied predominately to Bitcoin? Listen to the Mondo Merkato podcast series from CIBER to find out. Read more September 03, 2019 U.S. India Business Forum Highlights Economic Partnerships in Technology Development The 10th Annual USA India Business Forum and the 25th Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum was held August 27-28 at the Academy of Medicine. The event, titled “Global Advanced Industries: Creating Local Opportunities,” was sponsored by the Sheller College of Business’ Center for International Business Education and Research (CIBER), the USA India Business Summit (UIBS), and the Georgia Department of Economic Development. Read more April 22, 2019 Key2Enable Wins at Global Social Venture Competition At the recent global finals of the Global Social Venture Competition (GSVC) held on April 5, two teams representing the U.S. Eastern Region, Key2Enable and Magnomer, had an exceptional showing - placing in the top six, with Key2Enable winning the top prize and $40,000 in funding. Read more April 03, 2019 Ideas to Serve Competition – ‘Know What You Don’t Know’ Applicants for the 2019 Ideas to Serve (I2S) competition are exploring and addressing a number of issues both locally and globally from plastic waste reduction, disaster response in low-income communities, food security, global health, prison reform, education, and more! Read more October 10, 2018 Four-Year Award Announced for Georgia Tech’s CIBER Scheller College of Business Dean Maryam Alavi announced Georgia Tech’s Center for International Business Education and Research (GT CIBER) regional center of excellence -- based at the Scheller College of Business, serving the Georgia Tech academic and Georgia business communities -- was successful in its eighth national round of competition for a four-year award. Read more May 10, 2018 John R. McIntyre Releases New Book on CSR and Climate Change Implications for Multinational Enterprises Scheller College’s John R. McIntyre has released a new book, CSR and Climate Change Implications for Multinational Enterprises. The book describes, explains, and predicts how multinational firms will rise to the multiple challenges posed by global climate issues and the organizational and behavioral various responses of the international corporate community. Read more April 06, 2016 Emerging Dynamics of Sustainability to be Published in April 2016 CIBER executive director John R. McIntyre edits new volume in Edward Edgar Publishing Ltd's 'New Horizons in International Business series'. Read more April 06, 2016 Yosef Kebede Joins GT CIBER as Business Fellow Mr. Kebede is a US-based business development professional with over 15 years of experience in engineering consulting, international development, construction management, marketing, and workforce development. Read more March 28, 2016 In the Classroom with Michael Smith Michael Smith uses his Georgia Tech education and experience to reach students in the classroom. Read more March 07, 2015 Glenn Lurie, President and CEO, AT&T Mobility to Speak to Scheller EMBA Students The Scheller College of Business Executive MBA (EMBA) program will host guest speaker Glenn Lurie on March 14. Mr. Lurie will speak to the class from 12:30 - 1:30 p.m. in room 300. Read more March 04, 2015 Scheller College Hosts Semifinals of Global Social Venture Competition For the second consecutive year, Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business served as host of the semifinal round (for the Eastern U.S. Region) of the Global Social Venture Competition. Read more March 31, 2014 China's Rise and India's Strategic Choices The China Research Center Annual Lecture 2014 Presented by Professor Martin K. Whyte John Zwaanstra Professor of International Studies and Sociology. "The Paradox of Communists Effectively Promoting Capitalism". Read more More More News More Events Archived Events Featured Past Events May 2, 2017 1st Annual World Trade Day INTERNATIONAL TRADE & INVESTMENT TOPICS • Emerging Markets: Still Driving Global Economic Growth? • Global Trends to Build, Innovate and Attract. • North America Rising? Maintaining a Competitive Advantage in a Volatile Global Economy. • Advanced Manufacturing: The Impact of Technology and a Changing Workforce on Company Competitiveness. • Digital Technologies: How Disruptions Lead to Opportunities. • Energy Solutions: Creating New Markets. Read more March 3, 2017 5th India's Supply Chain: Markets and Opportunities Conference This day and half executive business forum is designed for business decision-makers, strategic business planners, consultants and senior academics interested in the business opportunities and profit potential afforded by the rapid expansion and globalization of India's Supply Chain. Read more January 12, 2017 Argentina: A New Business and Legal Environment In 2015, Mauricio Macri, a centrist businessman, became president of the second largest economy in South America. Now economists are predicting a 3.5% economic expansion for 2017. Come and learn what his market-friendly policies mean for business in this vibrant nation as it makes a clear change from its recent past. Read more May 22, 2016-June 7, 2016 Japan FDIB 2016 This program will travel the length of Japan, from the disaster affected areas in the northeast to the Kansai region in the southwest. We will work with some of Japan's top-rated universities, as well as experiencing some of the business, culture and history of Japan. Read more April 8, 2016 The Changing Energy Landscape in Europe and Eurasia: Emerging Threats and Opportunities Europe has been striving to achieve diversification of gas supplies for its growing energy needs. The process has never been a smooth one, largely due to the internal fragmentation, market pressures, and efforts by powerful external actors to affect individual member states of the EU. Read more April 2, 2016-April 3, 2016 3rd Annual Fulbright Symposium The Fulbright Student Association at Georgia Technology is pleased to invite you to the 3rd Annual Southeastern Fulbright Symposium. Join us for an exciting day of listening to prominent speakers, participating in enriching discussions, and building new friendships over lunch. Fulbrighters from Georgia, SouthCarolina, Alabama and some nearby states are expected to join us at the Symposium. Read more March 31, 2016 India and the United States: A Defining Partnership of the 21st Century The long and complex relationship between India and the United States, the world's largest and the oldest democracies, respectively, has veered from warm embrace independence, to the uneasy frostbite of the cold war, to being described by President Obama as "the defining partnership of the 21stcentury." Read more February 25, 2016 Understanding the Digital Domain: Cyber Confilict Between the United States and China Join the Center for International Strategy, Technology and Policy as it hosts Dr. James Lewis from the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) for a presentation on Chinese military and security issues with a specific focus on cybersecurity. An expert in his field, Dr. Lewis served as project director for the Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th President. This is an event that shouldn't be missed! Read more February 10, 2016 The Impact of the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement (TPP) for Japan and East Asia With the generous support of the Consulate General of Japan of Atlanta, GT CIBER is pleased to present Dr. Fukunari Kimura, speaking on the impact of the TPP agreement on the economies of Japan and East Asia. Read more December 13, 2015-December 15, 2015 MESD Lisbon December 2015 Read more October 19, 2015-October 20, 2015 6th Annual USA India Business Summit 2015 (UIBS) Distinguished keynote speakers, 50 + speakers, C level executives and key decision makers, Informative industry focused panels, Company spotlights, Exhibits and networking sessions. UIBS Awards Reception will be held on the evening of October 19th. UIBS Awards presentations and a lively entertainment segment. Read more October 1, 2015-October 3, 2015 9th China Goes Global Conference We are happy to announce the 9th annual conference of China Goes Global (a trademark of the Chinese Globalization Association), which will be held in Georgia Tech, Scheller College of Business, Atlanta, GA, October 1-3, 2015. As the premier conference on the topic, we seek contemporary contributions from the various business disciplines and the broader social sciences on the globalization of China. Read more June 3, 2015 4th India's Supply Chain: Markets and Opportunities Conference (ISCMOC) We are happy to announce the 10th annual conference of China Goes Global (a trademark of the Chinese Globalization Association), which will be held in Georgia Tech, Scheller College of Business, Atlanta, GA, October 1-3, 2015. As the premier conference on the topic, we seek contemporary contributions from the various business disciplines and the broader social sciences on the globalization of China. Read more April 21, 2015 Insight into the Business Landscape of Francophone Africa We are happy to announce the 10th annual conference of China Goes Global (a trademark of the Chinese Globalization Association), which will be held in Georgia Tech, Scheller College of Business, Atlanta, GA, October 1-3, 2015. As the premier conference on the topic, we seek contemporary contributions from the various business disciplines and the broader social sciences on the globalization of China. Read more More Projects & Research Presentation to the Southern Conference of Language Teachers by Mr. James Hoadley, Associate Director, GT CIBER,"Communicating in the Flat World: Language in the Era of Globalization", February 6, 2006 Presentation Made to the Faculty at Georgia Tech by Prof. John H. Dunning, External Evaluator, Georgia Tech CIBER Center and Program, "New Directions in International Business: A Personal View", Tuesday, April 19, 2005 "China's WTO Membership: Impacts on the Georgia Textile and Apparel Industry," (Prof. Alka Citrin, Marketing, CoM) "Global E-Commerce and Information Asymmetries in Asia: International Expansion Strategies for the Internet," (Prof. Rajesh Chakrabarti, Finance, CoM) See all Projects See all Research Papers Listen to the latest episode of the Mondo Merkato podcast Access Video Archive of CIBER Events CIBER and the Global Impact Award CIBER Book Releases Emerging Dynanimcs of Sustainability in Multinational Enterprises (Released March 2016) See all books “Industrial Policy: The Great Comeback” – Presented by John McIntyre March 17, 2022 “Implication of Responsible Research and Practice in IB: An Institutional Model” – Presented by John McIntyre March 11, 2022 “Asian Entrepreneurship” – Presented by John McIntyre November 10, 2021 “International Business as a Key Research Question for Management Scholars in the US: Challenges and Impact” – Presented by John McIntyre, February 9, 2017 Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures