Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering About Academics Admission Research Faculty & Staff Alumni Partners News MyMAE Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Search for: Toggle navigation About Academics Admission Research Faculty & Staff Alumni Partners News MyMAE Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Search for: MAE Senior Design Week 2022 MAE News Baja SAE aims for Top 20 in Rochester May 31, 2022 Formula SAE Team makes Top 10 in Michigan May 27, 2022 MAE Professor wins ORAU Award May 27, 2022 Read More News Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. “Our students get to experience excellent education that provides them an opportunity to develop, innovate, and design everything from robots to autonomous vehicles, to satellites, to prosthetic arms, to manufacturing methods, and to produce new novel engineering tools.” From Our Department Head Join colleagues and students in exploring new research. Seminar Information Past Seminars Diversity, Equity And Inclusion The MAE department is committed to initiatives to support our DEI mission and provide a welcoming and engaged community for our students, faculty, and staff. Our Expertise Is Diverse Aerodynamics, Fluid Mechanics, Propulsion and Space Exploration System Dynamics, Vibrations, Controls, and System Design Structural Mechanics, Materials and Manufacturing Thermal Sciences and Energy Systems Biomedical and Biological Systems Nanoscale Science and Engineering The Office of Assessment and Accreditation has selected Aerospace Engineering and Mechanical Engineering as two of the inaugural honorees for NC State’s Excellence in Assessment awards. This recognition is for degree and certificate programs that meet NC State’s expectations for high quality outcomes assessment, and additionally incorporate multiple best practices in their assessment processes aimed at improving student learning. Explore our Research Areas > Broaden Your World Student Organizations: Students can choose from our department student organizations or other College of Engineering student organizations to network and learn outside the classroom. Co-op Experience: Engineering students can gain hands-on job experience while pursuing their degrees, and get paid for it, through the Cooperative Education Program. Study Abroad: Engineering is a global enterprise. Many employers are looking for graduates with second languages and international exposure. Study abroad can make that happen. Giving Donations help the MAE department evolve and keep pace with the latest technology, while giving our students the skills, global awareness and sense of responsibility they need to make a difference in the world. Consider supporting the department today. Follow our Give Now link to donate to the Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Enhancement Fund. Give Now Ready to Join the Wolfpack? Apply to NC State Search Our Job Openings Student Jobs and Internships Latest News Baja SAE aims for Top 20 in Rochester Formula SAE Team makes Top 10 in Michigan MAE Professor wins ORAU Award Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Contact and Directions Events Calendar Giving MyMAE MAE Connect Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering North Carolina State University | 1840 Entrepreneur Drive | Raleigh, NC | 27695-7910 © 2022 NC State University | Log in | Accessibility | Privacy Back to Top