Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Student Success Programs About Services GRE Test Prep Apply Calendar Forms Staff Study Abroad Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Questions about SSP and how we can help? View answers to our FAQs Individual Success Plan (ISP) Learn how an ISP can help you succeed! Tutoring Learn about FREE tutoring at ESP. Financial Aid Find out what Financial Aid is available for SSP students. PreviousNext Take Action Summer Bridge Program SSP Mentor Program Prep for the GRE Contact SSP Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Student Success Programs Whatever it takes to support you The UofM Student Success Programs (SSP) believes that nothing should get in the way of you reaching your dreams. That's why we offer a unique opportunity for eligible students to participate in this federally-funded program which is specially designed for students who are first-generation and/or low-income and/or have a disability. By tapping into these resources, you can make your college years go a lot smoother — from taking a load off loan debts, to receiving encouragement to stay focused, to forming strategies to get your degree in a timely manner. We will help you get that diploma in hand, as planned, and with as few roadblocks as possible! two WAYS TO GET THE SUPPORT YOU DESERVE: TRiO Classic - Open to eligible students pursuing non-STEM majors. Participants receive free academic, career, financial, personal, and social support to aid in adjustment to the rigors of college life, with the overall goal of minimizing student loan debt and graduating on time with a baccalaureate degree. TRiO STEM - Provides the same support as the TRIO Classic for eligible students majoring in programs related to science, technology, engineering or mathematics (STEM) and health science related programs. Extended opportunities are available to partake in related research, networking, field experiences, internships, and seminars. Explore Services > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/8/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.