Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Loan Office Leaving Brown & Exit Counseling Loan Office Leaving Brown & Exit Counseling Graduating or Taking a Leave? Online loan exits must be completed Whether you are graduating, dropping below half-time, or taking a leave, all loan borrowers are required to complete loan exit counseling. Exit counseling must be completed now, even if you plan to return to Brown to continue as a graduate or medical student or enroll at another school. If you are TAKING A LEAVE, you must complete exit counseling requirements. In addition, we strongly encourage you to contact our Loan Office with questions, and review Brown's Curricular Resource Center's CRC Pre-Leave Checklist and Returning from Leave information. If your leave of absence is longer than your loan's grace period, you will need to prepare for loan repayment (see more below). If you are RETURNING FROM LEAVE, any incomplete exit counseling requirements will prevent you from receiving clearance to return. Step 1: Visit Banner Self Service to view all of your exit counseling requirements. Select the CURRENT Aid Year; then look for Unsatisfied Requirements. Step 2: Complete ONLINE exit counseling for each type of loan you borrowed. Banner Self Service wil list your requirements. Direct Loan Exit Counseling - for borrowers of Subsidized, Unsubsidized, Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Go to EXIT Counseling at StudentAid.gov, login using your FSA ID, and complete the Exit Counseling. The budget and expenses info you will enter is just an estimate and for informational purposes only. Perkins or Brown institutional loan programs Exit Counseling Go to heartland.ecsi.net Use our Cheat Sheet to help you register and connect your account. Use the ECSI KEY that was emailed to you from [email protected]. Go to the Documents tab, and complete all Exit Counseling. If you didn't borrow these loans, you don't need to do this. Need help? Contact us at [email protected] Learn about loan repayment Your loans will enter a grace period - a period of time when payments are not required. This will give you a few months to learn about your loans, determine your income & expenses, and develop a loan repayment strategy. Review our resources below & check out our Repay your Loans page for more info! If you return to school (at least half-time, in a degree granting program), you must notify each of your loan servicers. Your loan servicers will help you determine whether you've used all of your original grace period. You may be eligible to place your loans back into an in-school status or into an in-school deferment. You may be required to submit a completed deferment request to your servicer. See additional details regarding deferment. Contact us at [email protected], 401-863-3296, or visit our office in Page-Robinson Hall (2nd floor) for help. Related Files ECSI Create Profile and Connect Account.pdf Loan Repay Planning Worksheet.pdf Medical Students Graduating with Student Loans 2018.pdf Graduating with Student Loans 2018.pdf Home About Before You Borrow Leaving Brown & Exit Counseling Repay your Loans 1098-E Student Loan Interest - Tax Information Employee Programs News Code of Conduct Print this Page Share this Page Loan Office Brown University Box 1950 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3296 Fax 401-863-7518 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Bursar's Office Cashier's Office Financial Services Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Medical