Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Arts and Sciences Integrated Social Sciences 208 Cunningham Hall 206-685-2695 Website Faculty Website issadv@uw.edu Integrated Social Sciences is an online bachelor's degree completion program in the College of Arts and Sciences. ISS is a 60-credit interdisciplinary major, offering courses from across the social sciences, and an integrative set of core courses. General Education requirements are the same as for all A&S majors. Students with 75 transferable credits and an overall GPA of 2.0 are eligible for admission, including new transfer students, and returning and continuing UW Seattle undergraduates. Career fields open to ISS graduates include government and public policy, international affairs, law and law enforcement, nonprofit management, education and research, library science, business and management, communication and information technology, marketing and sales, social media, human resources, social services, and many more fields appropriate for liberal arts graduates. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Integrated Social Sciences Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Integrated Social Sciences Undergraduate Program Integrated Social Sciences 206-685-2695 issadv@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Integrated Social Sciences Program Overview Integrated Social Sciences (ISS) is an online bachelor's degree completion program in the College of Arts and Sciences and in partnership with UW Continuum College. ISS offers courses from across the social sciences, including anthropology, communications, economics, history, international studies, philosophy, political sciences, sociology, and more. An integrative set of core courses provides a common intellectual foundation and supports a reflective, intentional student learning practice. General Education requirements are the same as for all A&S majors. Career fields open to ISS graduates include government and public policy, international affairs, law and law enforcement, nonprofit management, education and research, library science, business and management, communication and information technology, marketing and sales, social media, human resources, social services, and many more fields appropriate for liberal arts graduates. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Integrated Social Sciences Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: General coursework developing critical thinking, analytical, and writing skills. Coursework which satisfies general education requirements for the College of Arts and Sciences, including courses in English composition, foreign language, and quantitative and symbolic reasoning. Admission Requirements Minimum 75 transferable quarter credits Minimum 2.00 GPA in all transferable college coursework Minimum 2.50 GPA in all courses applied to ISS major requirements Completion in high school or community college of College Academic Distribution Requirement (CADR). Demonstrated progress toward University and College of Arts and Sciences general education requirements ISS accepts only program-specific students. Admission is competitive. Completion of minimum admission requirements does not guarantee admission to the University. In addition, applicants are evaluated on the following criteria: (1) overall academic record; (2) a personal statement; (3) likelihood of success in an online-format program, based on a separate application question. Continuation Policy All students must make satisfactory academic progress in the major. Failure to do so results in probation, which can lead to dismissal from the major. For the complete continuation policy, contact the departmental adviser or refer to the department website. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Integrated Social Sciences Credential Overview Integrated Social Sciences (ISS) is an online bachelor's degree completion program in the College of Arts and Sciences and in partnership with UW Continuum College. ISS offers courses from across the social sciences, including anthropology, communications, economics, history, international studies, philosophy, political sciences, sociology, and more. An integrative set of core courses provides a common intellectual foundation and supports a reflective, intentional student learning practice. General Education requirements are the same as for all A&S majors. Career fields open to ISS graduates include government and public policy, international affairs, law and law enforcement, nonprofit management, education and research, library science, business and management, communication and information technology, marketing and sales, social media, human resources, social services, and many more fields appropriate for liberal arts graduates. Completion Requirements 60 credits ISS Core (20 credits): ISS 301; ISS 302; ISS 350; ISS 355; ISS 401 Thematic areas courses (40 credits), to include at least one 5-credit course from each of five of the following seven areas of inquiry: (1) information and technology; (2) population movement; (3) conflict and cooperation; (4) diversity and global justice; (5) inequalities and power; (6) health and risk; (7) societies and environments. Three or more disciplinary prefixes must be included. The list of approved courses is available from the ISS advising office or the program website. 20 of the 40 thematic areas course credits must be upper division. Minimum 45 credits applied to major requirements must be taken through the UW ISS program. Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses applied to major requirements Completion of all Arts and Sciences general education requirements Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The Integrated Social Sciences program fosters intentional learning, analytical thinking, communication, cultural competence, and global citizenship. By degree completion, all students should be able to: Explain social scientific research in terms of questions, theories, methods, and findings Construct, debate, and communicate arguments about social phenomena Evaluate, integrate, and critique information and sources Collaborate with diverse communities and demonstrate cultural competence ISS majors learn how to reflect thoughtfully on their learning and how to articulate what they have learned to others. They accomplish these important goals by developing an ongoing learning plan and by creating a web-based learning portfolio that is transformed into a polished showcase of learning in the capstone course (ISS 401). Honors Options Available: None Research, Internships, and Service Learning: Internships and Public Service: ISS students are eligible to earn credit via online sections of GEN ST 350 for approved experiential learning in both the private and public sectors. Undergraduate Research and Independent Study: ISS students may earn credit via appropriate department-based courses for approved independent study or research projects. Credit is typically awarded through the supervising faculty person's home department. Department Scholarships: None offered Student Organizations/Associations: None currently active Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA