Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Science (MS) in Biomedical Engineering Apply Science and Technology To Enhance the Future of Medical Care Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Mechanical & Aerospace Engr 2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Develop Technologies That Fuel Healthcare Advancement Build your career with a Master of Science in Biomedical Engineering. It’s a great opportunity for those interested in surgical and cancer treatment planning, engineering-based simulation in cardiovascular disease and treatment, development of devices for improved and novel diagnosis, image guided surgery and surgical robotics, and development of assistive and rehabilitative technology. Choose from three different tracks available, each providing you with an understanding of relevant physiology and biology, knowledge of contemporary topics in medical technology, training in the modern biomedical engineering tools, and the ability to engage in advanced engineering studies including elements of research, analysis, design and experimentation. Graduates of the biomedical engineering program have a command of the application of engineering principles to biological and health systems. You’ll be instilled with the professional skills necessary to gain employment in the biomedical engineering industry or to enter competitive biomedical engineering doctoral programs. Career opportunities include research, design, analysis, testing and product development in the biomedical and rehabilitation industries, clinical engineering, and biomedical engineering. Biomedical Engineering (MS) – Accelerated BS to MSBME This track allows highly qualified undergraduate majors in mechanical engineering and aerospace engineering to begin taking graduate-level courses that will count toward their master’s degree while completing their baccalaureate degree program. As a full-time student, you’ll receive a bachelor’s and master’s degree in five years instead of six years. Biomedical Engineering (MS) – Biofluids Current research focuses on translational research in multiscale computational fluid dynamics for cardiovascular treatment planning, lung cancer treatment planning, upper airways fluid mechanics, bioacoustics for patient monitoring and bedside diagnosis. Biomedical Engineering (MS) – Biomechanics Within this track, current research focuses on biomechanics, developmental dysplasia of the hip, cellular mechanics and force-induced biochemical responses, image guided surgery, surgical robotics navigation and tracking, soft robotics, and biomechanics of movement rehabilitation and neural control of movement. Biomedical Engineering (MS) – MD/MSBME This track allows you to earn an M.D. and the M.S.BME simultaneously. It runs as a five-year program where you’ll complete the majority of the M.S.BME requirements in the third year after matriculation, prior to your clinical experiences. This track is aimed at M.D. students who wish to expand their College of Medicine FIRE project into a thesis. Please note that the nonthesis option is not available on this track. Request Information Highlights There are currently 11 various research areas in biomedical engineering at UCF, from biomedical diagnostics and devices to cell mechanics to mechanical properties of tissues and much more. The top industries for biomedical engineers include manufacturing, healthcare, professional scientific and technical services, and education. More than 30% of biomedical engineering job postings nationwide list a master’s degree as a requirement or preference. Biomedical engineering graduates earn an annual average salary of $82K. Application Deadlines Fall July 1 Spring December 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Mechanics of Biostructures I & II Learn about the mechanical analysis of hard and soft tissues and prosection lab on human anatomy and physiology. Then in part two of this course, you’ll examine cell physiology and engineering principles applied to analysis of cellular processes and prosection anatomy lab on human anatomy and physiology. Bioinstrumentation Get an introduction to the fundamental theory and experimental techniques needed for performing bioengineering measurements, designing related experiments and analyzing experimental results. Topics in Biomedical Engineering Explore research topics in biomedical engineering (BME) guided by BME faculty. This team-taught course will involve seminars and presentations of research and case studies by faculty engaged in BME research as well as regional medical professionals. Biomedical Engineering Skills You'll Learn Design, develop and test various instruments, devices and software used in the healthcare industry. Ensure the safety and efficiency of biomedical equipment through diagnosing any potential problems and making necessary repairs. Work in a cross-functional team to develop innovative concepts and ideas for new products and product improvements. Career Opportunities Biomedical Engineer Clinical Engineer Rehabilitation Engineer Quality Engineer Researcher Admission Requirements Biomedical engineering applicants should hold a bachelor’s degree in biomedical, mechanical or aerospace engineering, or a closely related discipline from an accredited university. Applications to the program are accepted for the fall and spring semesters, and all required materials need to be submitted prior to the application deadline. Request Information In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: Official transcripts Resume Statement of educational, research and professional career objectives Request Information College of Engineering and Computer Science Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Colleges & Campus 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting… Colleges & Campus Elite Students Coming to UCF for North America Collegiate Programming Contest UCF will host and compete against 49 other top student programming teams — including Stanford, MIT, Harvard, Caltech, UCBerkeley and Georgia Tech. Research Aerodynamics of Perching Birds Could Inform Aircraft Design A team of UCF researchers have investigated the mystery behind different bird perching maneuvers to better understand the aerodynamic forces of landing an aircraft. Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Masters Biomedical Engineering (MS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Biomedical Engineering (MS) program offered at UCF. Loading... University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida