Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Get Started Identify Funding Opportunities Write Proposal Submit proposal Conduct Your Research Commercialize Your Research $sLabel Home Research Lifecycle Get Started AAA Get Started Get Started Identify Opportunities Write Proposal Submit Proposal Conduct Research Commercialize Mission and Values Our core values: Accountability Education Equity Excellence Innovation Integrity Respect Service Subject Welfare Teamwork Transparency The mission of the Office of the Vice Provost for Research & Scholarship is to work with our faculty, students, and staff to foster and encourage the highest quality research and creative activities. We aim to achieve our mission by: Developing and maintaining a culture and infrastructure that supports research/creative activities university-wide, and promotes protection of our human and animal subjects Facilitating these activities by helping our investigators identify and obtain the resources they need to succeed Promoting high ethical standards and compliance with applicable policies and guidelines of our partners, the university, and the state and federal governments Educating our constituency regarding opportunities, procedures, and rules/guidelines in the performance and reporting of research Facilitating communication with university leadership and with investigators by providing important information and by listening to concerns Helping our investigators navigate regulatory hurdles and roadblocks Promoting collaborative and innovative research programs that advance our knowledge and address regional, national and global societal needs Mission-Driven Research The comprehensive array of disciplines throughout our 11 schools and colleges positions the University of Miami to serve as a model for scholarly and artistic endeavors, and for integrated and interdisciplinary research that translates into innovative and actionable solutions. Find out how your research can align with the University's strategic plan, The Roadmap to Our New Century. Experts to help with the first steps. Education and Training Learn IBIS Research, Workday, Velos and eProst. Browse over a dozen live Research Compliance & Quality Assurance Training courses, Find resources specific to medical researchers. Training Materials and Helpful Links Research Training at the Miller School of Medicine (MSOM) Clinical and Translational Science Institute (CTSI) Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) Research Development and Evaluation Teams dedicated to connecting investigators with funding and with each other. This office administers the University's Laboratory for Integrative Knowledge (U-LINK) and Provost’s Research Awards. Subscribe to a Listserv Research Navigator The Research Navigator is a new paradigm in research support for the University of Miami - a concierge service that connects faculty and staff to the right resources, right now. It is one-on-one, centralized support designed to allow our faculty and staff to focus on research, not roadblocks. Connect with us at Navigator@miami.edu. Research Capacity and Operations Teams that support reporting and data on sponsored projects at the University. They develop and maintain grant agreement management systems, effort certification and reporting, and research information technology. Core Facilities and Shared Resources Access over a dozen shared resources, including animal facilities, imaging, biostatistics, research supplies and specialized marine science resources. Veterinary Resources Personnel dedicated to providing the utmost care to animals in research facilities, including compliance with the highest standards for US animal research programs. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices