Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Stories Learners $sLabel Home Information for Learners AAA Information for Learners The University prides itself on involving students in research at every level in their academic career. In every field imaginable, you can find learners engaged in the lab, out in the field, and behind the camera. Learn how you can get involved in research, whether it’s your first day at the University or you’re pursuing graduate work in the field that inspires you. UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH AND COMMUNITY OUTREACH Get help navigating countless opportunities to start your research career, and apply to join one of our leading-edge projects. GRADUATE SCHOOL ”A Place of Research, A World of Opportunity.” Graduate students are the backbone of our research endeavors. Explore 200 master’s and doctoral programs across three campuses. MEDICAL GRADUATE RESEARCH The Executive Dean for Research at the Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine works to match graduate and medical students with the world’s leading researchers. U-LINK Fellowships The University of Miami Laboratory for Integrative Knowledge (U-LINK) aims to address the world’s most compelling and difficult problems through interdisciplinary inquiry. RESEARCH GUIDES From Advertising to Urban Sustainability, experts at the University of Miami Libraries have put together resources by subject area, course and topic. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices