Skip to main content Diversity-outlined-export-2 Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Supplier Diversity Navigation UPenn Diversity Navigation Main navigation Diversity at Penn Penn Compact 2022 Policies Reports Forms Facts and Figures Timeline Stories Programs Academic Programs Diversity Offices, Initiatives and Student Organizations Administrative and Co-Curricular Resources Affiliated With Resource Centers Religious Organizations Arts Organizations Student Government Consultation Councils Student Affairs School Affiliated Organization News & Events Videos Diversity News Events Welcome to Fueling Business Growth, the University of Pennsylvania’s Supplier Diversity & Inclusion Program’s campaign designed to increase its diversity procurement in Philadelphia. The program leverages Penn’s purchasing power to support the growth of diverse businesses—and subsequently the Philadelphia economy—by engaging with local, minority, LGBTQ+, women-owned businesses, veterans, and businesses owned by people with disabilities. Penn’s multi-faceted program includes expanding outreach with diverse businesses; deepening relationships with a range of suppliers; increasing businesses opportunities; addressing financial barriers facing diverse suppliers; and providing enhanced tools and resources to the Penn buying community – all in the name of generating economic activity. What began in 1986 as the Buy West Philadelphia Program, is today’s Penn Supplier Diversity & Inclusion Program, which is an interconnected network of University staff and its buyers, along with local and diverse suppliers seeking opportunities from the private and public sector. After decades of continuous improvement in economic inclusion, the University has evaluated its programs and progress and created an Action Plan to increase local and diverse spending on goods and services. Please bookmark this site as a resource for the diverse entrepreneurs and business owners in and around Philadelphia, and the buying community at Penn. Highlights of Penn's Supplier Diversity History Watch this video and learn the story of Penn’s strategic approach to supplier diversity and inclusion. Welcome to MED Week Listen to: Unmute Yourself – Supplier Voices on Supplier Diversity & Inclusion, featuring a conversation with minority-owned suppliers who are currently doing business with Penn. Sign up to get SDI updates Penn Procurement Services recently released its first quarterly update on the Fueling Business Growth campaign – the University’s initiative to expand its impact in advancing supplier diversity and inclusion. The goal is to inform internal and external stakeholders on the University’s activities and impact, while continuing to make it easier for both buyers and suppliers to connect and do business. If you would like to receive these updates, please email DiversitySupplier@upenn.edu. To remain connected to us on an ongoing basis, follow Penn Procurement Services on LinkedIn and on Twitter at @pennprocurement. 0 1 2 Featured News University of Pennsylvania receives the Jesse L. Moore Supplier 2022 Diversity Award The University of Pennsylvania has received the Jesse L. Moore Supplier 2022 Diversity Award from INSIGHT Into Diversity magazine, the oldest print diversity and inclusion publication in higher education. Read more >> Featured Event 2022 Penn Supplier Diversity Forum & Expo This year's Penn Supplier Diversity Forum & Expo will be held on Thursday, June 16, 2022. The Forum will be conducted from 11:00 a.m. - 12:15 p.m. and the Expo will run from 12:30 - 2:30 p.m. Click here to learn more about the event and to register. Read more >> Newsroom Penn showcases good news about the achievements, awards, and exciting happenings of diverse business owners. Come into the Newsroom for important announcements regarding policy updates and information about trends relevant to the Supplier Diversity & Inclusion Program. Read more >> The Procurement Services website provides in-depth information on all the ways Penn conducts business. Read more >> Tools for Buyers Penn buyers and decision makers are integral to developing and sustaining business relationships with diverse suppliers. Among the tools that Procurement Services provides to guide buyers are: • Supplier Search Tool • Buyers Online Diversity Assistance Form • Catering@Penn • Economic Inclusion Website • Advanced Analytics Read more >> Supplier Resources Doing business with a large institution like Penn can be complex. On its website, Penn Procurement Services offers helpful information and resources for diverse suppliers interested in growing business with the University: • Becoming a Diversity Supplier at Penn • Connect directly to the expert assistance in Procurement Services. Read more >> Moving the Needle The Penn Supplier Diversity & Inclusion Program has had significant impact on the economy of the Philadelphia region due to the increased number of approved suppliers as well as the increased spend since it began in 1986 as the Buy West Philadelphia Program. Penn is committed to the continued growth of the program and the ongoing development of business relationships. Read more >> Meet Penn Suppliers Servicing the needs of a globally-active research and learning institution demands tenacity, ingenuity, and resolve. Find insight and inspiration from the stories of problem-solvers and decision-makers whose expertise and dedication contribute to shared success. Read more >> Supplier Diversity Footer Newsroom Events Tools for Buyers Supplier Resources Moving the Needle Meet Penn Suppliers Footer menu ©2021 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement