Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Institutional Events Menu About Us Event Proposal Event Planning Resources Venue Information Event Communications Event Technology Catering Transportation Parking Protection of Minors Summer Programs Contact UIL Comprising a creative, strategic and dedicated team, the events department advances the mission of Baylor University through institutional events that extend the Baylor experience to our constituents. Our services include: Provide tutorial information for setting up and managing your Zoom event. Provide consultations, over-the-phone setup, run-throughs for Zoom Meetings which includes assistance setting up for your various virtual events. Remote support for your various virtual events. Assistance coordinating production vendors. Provide equipment for audio, video, lighting, background, etc. If you answer yes to any of the statements listed below, please submit an Event Proposal through our online form by clicking the green start button. Someone from the Institutional Events team will reach out to you to discuss the best way to host your event. I am hosting a meeting or lecture with more than 300 attendees. I am hosting an event that will have multiple sessions. I am hosting an event that spans more than one day. I am hosting an event that needs live-streaming capabilities. I am hosting an event where there are a presenter or panelists and the people attending will only have the option to participate using a chat function. I am hosting an event and need help with audio, cameras or lighting. I am hosting an event that is both in person and virtual. I am hosting an event that needs registration and/or payment capabilities. I am hosting an event and do not feel comfortable doing this on my own. I am hosting an event that invites people on a public platform like Facebook. Collaborative Planning We identify innovative approaches to key institutional events through synergy with our campus partners to meet and exceed shared objectives. Achieving Excellence Our team wields institutional knowledge and industry standards to create custom event strategies and ensure consistent levels of excellence in event execution. Managing Resources We exhibit judicious stewardship through budgeting, use of campus assets and the procurement and maintenance of event resources. FACILITIES CATERING WEDDINGS Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Event Proposal Event Planning Resources Venue Information Miller Chapel Bennett Auditorium McCall Chapel Robbins Chapel George W. Truett Theological Seminary Robinson Tower 455 Pat Neff 300 Reynolds Conference Suite Hankamer School of Business Bill Daniel Student Center McLane Student Life Center Baylor Science Building McMullen-Connally Faculty Center Armstrong Browning Library Waco Hall Fountain Mall Tent Event Communications Print Production Policies Guest Lists Baylor Graphic Standards Printing Procurement Office Event Technology Event Technology Policies Catering Off-campus catering policies for Faculty & Staff List of approved off-campus caterers Off-Campus Catering FAQs Transportation Parking Protection of Minors Summer Programs Contact UIL