Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact Home > Academics Academic Policies Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Academic Research Administrative Policy Library University polices for sponsored projects. Managing Research and Externally Funded Projects Policies guiding management of projects sponsored by governmental and private organizations. Policies on Federally-funded Projects Agency-specific guidance for project management. Academic Conduct Academic Standing for Undergraduates Policies regarding academic performance. Involuntary Leave of Absence Policy for how involuntary leave is determined and managed. Leave for Military Duty Policies on military leave of absence. Student Conduct Rules of University conduct and discipline. Voluntary Leave of Absence Policy Circumstances and process for withdrawal from school. Safety and Security Campus Safety and Security Link to annual campus security report Crime Definitions in Accordance with the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Uniform Crime Reporting Program Definition of crimes. Gender-Based Misconduct Policies for Students Sexual respect and integrity policy, reporting protocol, and counselling resources. Information Technology Policy Full scope of policies governing use and access to information technology. Policies on Alcohol and Drugs Statement and policies about alcohol, drugs, and smoking. Protection of Minors Policies on the protection of minors. Communication Student Email Communication Policy Policies governing how the University communicates with students by email. Personal Information Policy on Access to Student Records (FERPA) Your rights to access your educational records or release them to others. Social Security Number Reporting Policies about when you must provide your Social Security Number to the University. Events & Activities Policy on Partisan Political Activity Rules prohibiting the University from participating or intervening in any political campaign and the rules governing anyone connected with the University regarding participation in political campaign activities. University Event Policies Guidance in planning and scheduling events or meetings. Ethical Conduct Non-Retaliation Policy Statement on the University prohibition on retaliation against those who report or seek guidance on ethical or compliance issues. Policies and Procedures on Discrimination and Harassment Faculty and student policies on discrimination and harassment, reporting options, investigation and disciplinary process. Reporting Process Inquiries or complaints A list of people to contact for informal conflict resolution, inquiries, or complaints regarding discrimination or harassment. Student Grievances, Academic Concerns and Complaints The process for a student to use to register a complaint or grievance. Undergraduate Academic Integrity Information about undergraduate academic integrity can be found at the link below or by emailing [email protected] Academic Integrity Graduate Student Policies and Procedures Information about Academic Policies and Procedures can be found by visiting Graduate Student Affairs Graduate Academic Policies and Procedures 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact