Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Media and Public RelationsMenu Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena National Nurses Week: Baylor Expert Shares Four Ways Nurses Can Cultivate Holistic Wellness Baylor expert, Jessica Peck, DPN, shares four ways that nurses can avoid burnout Jessica Peck, DNP, clinical professor at Baylor's Louise Herrington School of Nursing, led a study on the impacts of COVID-19 on pediatric advance practice registered nurses. Tweet May 6, 2022 Media Contact: Shelby Cefaratti-Bertin, Baylor University Media and Public Relations, 254-710-6431 Follow us on Twitter: @BaylorUMedia WACO, Texas (May 6, 2022) – Nursing continues to be the largest and most trusted profession and serves as the face of health care to the American public. However, it is also one of the most stressful professions, with studies showing that burnout among nurses – even before the COVID-19 pandemic – remains a significant issue. Jessica Peck, DNP, APRN, clinical professor at Baylor University’s Louise Herrington School of Nursing (LHSON) and immediate past president of the National Association of Pediatric Nurse Practitioners (NAPNAP), continues her research into this persistent issue, finding in a recent study that the most difficult challenges experienced by registered nurses and their families are mental health struggles. In their Journal of Pediatric Health Care article, Peck and her co-author Jennifer Sonney, Ph.D., APRN, wrote that although nurses are often lauded as heroes or angels – a “nobly directed but potentially damaging narrative” – nurses should be treated as humans with physical and mental health needs and should be supported as they prioritize – and promote – their individual health behaviors and access resources. As the nation moves toward a post-pandemic reality, Peck offers four ways that nurses (regardless of specialty) – and those serving in other stressful professions – can avoid burnout and cultivate holistic wellness: Prioritize your own personal well-being and self-care physically, mentally, emotionally, socially and spiritually. Mindfully limit exposure to pandemic-related news media and contentious social media forums. Instead, practice intentional gratitude, mindfulness, prayer and meditation. Seek community-based support through professional networks and social support systems, prioritizing time away to engage in activities that are leisurely and fun. Seek mental health support early if any signs of concern appear. Peck’s study received a great deal of interest from professionals around the country, including the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. In response to a request for additional information from HHS, Peck and Sonney detailed the results of their initial research and “extremely concerning” preliminary data from a follow-up commissioned study in a NAPNAP letter to U.S. Surgeon General Vivek H. Murthy. Among the researchers’ preliminary findings include that “nearly 90% of respondents to date report concern for professional burnout, with nearly 20% extremely concerned and more than a quarter moderately concerned.” National Nurses Week May 6-12, 2022, honors nurses’ contributions and sacrifices and serves as a reminder to thank medical professionals for keeping people healthy, particularly nurses who often serve as the first point of contact for most patients. The week also commemorates the birthdate (May 12) of celebrated nurse Florence Nightingale, who laid the foundation for professional nursing through her tireless work during and after the Crimean War. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked Research 1 institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 20,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 90 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY LOUISE HERRINGTON SCHOOL OF NURSING The Baylor University Louise Herrington School of Nursing (LHSON) located in Dallas, Texas, was established in 1909 as a diploma program within Baylor Hospital in Dallas, which is now Baylor Scott & White Health’s Baylor University Medical Center, and in 1950 became one of the six degree-granting schools of Baylor University. The first Baccalaureate degrees were granted in 1952, establishing the School among the earliest baccalaureate nursing programs in Texas. In 1999, the School was renamed the Baylor University Louise Herrington School of Nursing after Louise Herrington Ornelas, a 1992 Baylor Alumna Honoris Causa, who made an endowment gift to the School. The LHSON offers Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degrees through Traditional, FastBacc® (one-year accelerated) and Distance Accelerated BSN programs. Plus, the LHSON offers an online Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) program with tracks that include Family Nurse Practitioner, Nurse-Midwifery, Neonatal Nurse Practitioner, Pediatric Nurse Practitioner, Executive Nurse Leadership and U.S. Army Anesthesia Nursing (USAGPAN), which operates at the U.S. Army Medical Center of Excellence at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio. U.S. News & World Report‘s 2022 Best Graduate Schools rankings include several LHSON programs, including the DNP at No. 60 nationally; “Best Nursing” specialty rankings for LHSON’s USAGPAN at No. 8; and Baylor’s Nurse-Midwifery program at No. 21. To learn more, visit baylor.edu/nursing. More News ... News Archives Looking for more news from Baylor University? Tweets by @BaylorUMedia Contact Us mail Media and Public Relations Baylor University One Bear Place #97024 Waco, TX 76798 tel (254) 710-1961 Email mediacomm@baylor.edu More Contact Info Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Baylor Bears 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Baylor Religion Survey Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Detecting Biomarkers for Cancer Eye Cancer App Helps Save Lives Exhuming Immigrant Remains Fighting Tropical Diseases Higgs Boson Research iCivics Baylor Model Life Patterns in Extreme Environments Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Small Business and Community Health Research Texas Hunger Initiative Water Quality Research Whale Earplug Reveals Lifetime Contaminant Exposure and Hormone Profiles Data Privacy Day 2019 Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Dean's Academic Honor List Graduation List Academic Scholarship Awards List Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena