Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Italian Studies Home About People Academics Research and Publications Events Site Navigation Home About People Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Resources Chiasmi Courses Brown in Bologna Semester or Academic Year Abroad Brown in Bologna Summer Program Research and Publications Faculty Bookshelf Virtual Humanities Lab (VHL) Italian Studies Colloquium Events Past Events Cristina Abbona-Sneider Senior Lecturer and Director of Language Studies, Concentration Advisor, On leave, Fall 2021 [email protected] 401-863-3970 Cristina Abbona-Sneider (Brown Ph.D., 1998) is Senior Lecturer in Italian Studies, and teaches language and culture courses at all levels. She also coordinates and administers all aspects of the language program and serves as supervisor and trainer for graduate teaching assistants. She is co-... Cosette Bruhns Alonso Postdoctoral Research Associate [email protected] Cosette Bruhns is Postdoctoral Research Associate in Diversity in Digital Publishing at the Center for Digital Scholarship and in Italian Studies, with affiliations in the Program in Medieval Studies and the Center for the Study of the Early Modern World. She received her PhD in... Caroline Castiglione Professor of Italian Studies, Professor of History [email protected] 401-863-2098 Caroline Castiglione is Professor of Italian Studies and History. Her research interests include political, legal, gender, and women's history in Italy and Europe between 1500-1800. Her first book, Patrons and Adversaries: Nobles and Villagers in Italian Politics, 1640-1760 (Oxford... Filomena Fantarella Visiting Assistant Professor of Italian Studies [email protected] Filomena Fantarella (Brown Ph.D. 2016) is Visiting Assistant Professor of Italian. Her research interests include the relationship between politics and literature, Fascism and anti-Fascism, the intellectual history of the nineteenth and twentieth century, food studies. She... David Kertzer Dupee University Professor, Professor of Anthropology and Italian Studies [email protected] 401-863-3251 David Kertzer joined Brown in 1992 as Paul Dupee, Jr., University Professor of Social Science. A Professor of Anthropology and Italian Studies, he was appointed Provost in 2006, serving in that role until 2011. Kertzer founded and directed the Anthropological Demography program. He was also... Evelyn Lincoln Professor of History of Art and Architecture and Italian Studies [email protected] 401-863-3349 Evelyn Lincoln is an art historian specializing in the history of print culture and the book in the early modern period, with a special focus on Rome. She is also the chair of History of Art and Architecture and a member of the Center for the Study of the Early Modern World. She received... Ronald Martinez Professor of Italian Studies [email protected] 401-863-3950 R.L. Martinez has published extensively on Dante, Petrarch, Boccaccio, Ariosto, and Machiavelli. He is the co-editor, with Robert Durling, of the Oxford University Press edition of Dante's Comedy, and, also with Durling, co-authored a book on Dante's lyrics (Time and the Crystal:... Massimo Riva Professor of Italian Studies, Director of Graduate Studies, Coordinator of the Virtual Humanities Lab, Affiliated Professor of Modern Culture and Media [email protected] 401-863-3984 Massimo Riva was educated in Italy (Laurea in Filosofia, University of Florence, 1979) and the United States (Ph.D. in Italian literature, Rutgers University, 1986). His teaching ranges from Boccaccio's Decameron to modern and contemporary literature, film, media and the... Suzanne Stewart-Steinberg Professor and Chair of Italian Studies , Professor of Comparative Literature, Affiliated Professor of Modern Culture and Media [email protected] 401-863-3380 Suzanne Stewart-Steinberg works on the literature, culture and politics of nineteenth and twentieth century Italy and Germany. She received her B.A. (Hons.) from the University of Essex, Great Britain, her Ph.D. in Political Science from Yale University, and M.A. in German Studies from Cornell... People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Emeriti Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni Office Hours Department of Italian Studies Department of Italian Studies Brown University Box 1942 190 Hope Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1561 Fax: 401-863-3304 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top