Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty & Staff Forms Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Students Enrollment Verification Grades OverviewGPA and Grading ScaleGrade ChangeFAQ Transcripts OverviewOfficialUnofficialLambuth UniversityFAQ Reverse Transfer FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA NotificationRelease of Student Education Record Student Right-to-Know Information Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM OverviewLate/Retroactive Withdrawal Self Service Guides Take Action View Calendars Order Transcripts View Notices Contact Us Home Registrar Students View Holds Holds Holds are administrative blocks that prevent you from performing key enrollment activities or processes. The two most common processes restricted by holds are: Registration ("R" code) - Prevents you from: Registering for classes. Adding classes to your schedule. Dropping classes from your schedule. Transcript ("T" code) - Prevents you from: Viewing your grades and unofficial transcript online. Requesting an official transcript or a copy of your grades. Note: The Registrar does not place holds and cannot remove them. Only the office that places a hold can remove it. View Holds Screen Use this screen to find out what type of hold you have, which office placed it, and why that office placed it. Login to the portal. On the Student page, find the Registration and Records portlet. Click on the Holds: Review link. When you reach the View Holds screen, the following information will be presented for any hold that you may have: Hold Type: This is the name of the hold and the whether it blocks your from performing registration-related activities, viewing grades, or requesting a transcript, to name a few critical activities. From Date: The date the hold was put in place. To Date: The date when the hold expires. For most holds, this date is set to the last day in the current century, meaning that the hold stays in place until you contact the appropriate office and take the action needed to have that office remove the hold. Originator: This is the office that placed the hold on your record and is the only office that can remove the hold. So you must contact this office to determine what actions you need to take. Processes Affected: This identifies the activities you are barred from doing while the hold is in place. In most instances, these activities will be related to registration, or to viewing and requesting grades. Common Types of Holds Holds can be placed for many other reasons--a missing transcript from your high school or previous institution, unpaid fines or fees, lack of proof of immunization, etc. Refer to Common Holds to determine why you have the hold and who can remove it. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/28/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.