Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Temple HEERF III Grant You are here Home Life at Temple Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library The American Rescue Plan (ARP) included additional COVID-19 relief for institutions of higher education, using the same Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) model established in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act. Contents Overview & EligibilityFunding DetailsApplying Overview & Eligibility What is the American Rescue Plan (ARP)? The American Rescue Plan (ARP) included additional COVID-19 relief for institutions of higher education. This new COVID-19 stimulus bill included $40 billion, available through Sept. 30, 2023, for higher education institutions and students, using the same HEERF model established in the CARES Act. The funding must be prioritized to provide emergency grants to students with exceptional financial need. HEERF III financial aid grants for students may be used for any component of a student’s cost of attendance or for emergency costs that arise due to coronavirus, such as tuition, food, housing, healthcare (including mental healthcare) or child care. Who is eligible? Current degree-seeking students who are enrolled during the fall 2021 semester and are eligible to receive federal financial aid are eligible to for HEERF III funds. Students who meet these criteria must also confirm that they have financial need and require emergency grant assistance. If you have not filed a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and feel you are eligible for federal financial aid, you still have time to complete the FAFSA. Once you complete the FAFSA, continue to review your financial aid requirements in the Costs & Aid tab of your TUportal because you might have student eligibility requirements to complete before you can request HEERF III funding. While we understand that each and every student has experienced an upheaval of their day-to-day life as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we want to ensure that students with the most need are prioritized for these emergency funds. For this reason, students who received federal Pell Grants for the fall 2021 semester are being automatically awarded HEERF III grants. How will eligible federal Pell Grant recipients receive information on their HEERF III grant eligibility? Federal Pell Grant recipients who are eligible for HEERF III funding will receive an email from the Office of Student Financial Services alerting them to the grant disbursed to their student account. A refund will be processed as a direct deposit or sent out as a paper check. You can review your student account details in the Costs & Aid tab of TUportal. You can also visit TUpay Student Choice Refunds (Costs & Aid tab in TUportal) for the status of your refund once you receive the email from the Office of Student Financial Services (could take a day or two to see the refund applied). Funding Details How can Temple students use emergency funds provided through the HEERF III? As required by the legislation, HEERF III funds may be used only to cover expenses related to a student’s cost of attendance or for emergency costs that arise due to coronavirus, such as tuition, food, housing, healthcare (including mental healthcare) or child care. What expenses will be considered in a request for a HEERF III grant? The HEERF III grant funding may be used to cover expenses related to a student’s cost of attendance or for emergency costs that arise due to coronavirus during the fall 2021 semester, such as tuition, food, housing, healthcare (including mental healthcare) or child care. Here are some examples. You require assistance to pay your tuition, fees, housing (expenses related to living on campus, off campus, or at home or with a relative or friend), meals or meal plan, books, supplies, transportation, healthcare, or child care. You routinely used the computer labs to do your schoolwork, but now need a computer to continue your education remotely. You need to purchase internet access for your home (including a “hotspot” or other equipment). You need to seek healthcare treatment that is not covered by your insurance. The child care center your dependent attended is closed and you have had to hire alternative care so that you can continue your coursework. You have transportation expenses. Applying How can students request funding? Students who are already eligible for federal financial aid based on their 2021–2022 FAFSA will be able to request the HEERF III student financial aid grant using an online form that will be available to eligible students in TUportal. The Office of Student Financial Services will notify all students when they are able to complete the survey. When can I expect to receive the funds once I submit my request? Requests for HEERF III grants will be reviewed following the posted deadline. Once your request is reviewed and approved, you will see the grant disbursed through your student account and processed as a refund. If you are already signed up for direct deposit, the funds will be deposited in your account within three to four days. If you are not registered for direct deposit through TUpay, you will receive a paper check in the mail to your permanent address on file with the university. Student Financial Services encourages all students who are eligible for HEERF III funding to sign up for direct deposit in order to receive the funds as quickly as possible. Can I appeal the outcome of the request? No, there are no appeals regarding the decision or the grant amount. Back to Main Coronavirus Page Go back to Life at TempleMore in Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.