Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University Middle School About Apply News Parents Research Employment Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Join In On the Fun! Now Offering 6th-8th Grade Classes The University Middle Experience Learn more about this totally new kind of school In the News Stay up-to-date with news and upcoming events PreviousNext Take Action Apply to University Middle Learn More University Schools Contact Us Follow University Schools Online twitter Home Middle School University Middle | A New Kind of School Watch below to hear from students, parents, faculty and staff on what makes University Middle one of a kind! University Middle is a totally new kind of school. A school that reflects the demands of the dynamic, high-tech, diverse world in which we live. A school where students don’t just see people of different races and genders and religions – they work with them, learn from them and come to understand them. A school that teaches students to take ownership of their learning though projects they care about, with results they can touch, display, market, broadcast or give back to the community. As an extension of the University of Memphis, University Middle is a school where education starts in classrooms, but ultimately ends up in the world. It is a school that values and practices hands-on learning. A school that builds its curriculum around the interests of the students who walk its halls. A school that isn’t just different; it’s fun! COVID-19 Guidelines In accordance with the most current CDC recommendations University Middle School has developed COVID guidelines for the 2021-2022 school year. This is a living document that will be monitored and re-evaluated as deemed necessary based on CDC, Shelby County Health Department, State of Tennessee, University of Memphis guidelines and University Middle transmission rates. Parents and stakeholders will be notified of any changes to this policy. Download the complete COVID-19 Guidelines > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/10/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.