Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Admission Visit Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Dean Stanton Wortham Mission & History About Carolyn and Peter Lynch Facts & Figures Contact Related Links Catholic Education Research Initiative Formative Education Initiative Admission Overview Why LSEHD? Tuition & Aid Deadlines & Requirements Request Info Related Links Undergraduate Admission & Aid Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Academics Overview Undergraduate Programs Applied Psychology and Human Development Elementary Education Secondary Education Transformative Educational Studies Lynch School Minors Interdisciplinary Majors Experience, Reflection, Action (ERA) Study Abroad Internal Transfer Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Professional & Continuing Education professional-certificates-instructional-design Certificate Programs Certificate in Human Rights and International Justice Certificate in Positive Youth Development Certificate in Child and Family Mental Health Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in International Higher Education Certificate in Institutional Research Certificate in Serving Exceptional Learners in Catholic Schools Certificate in Autism Spectrum Disorder Certificate in Bilingual Education Certificate in Deafblindness Certificate in Special Education Certificate in Teaching English Language Learners Online Programs Commencement Summer Session Departments CDEP Master of Arts (M.A.) in Mental Health Counseling Master of Arts (M.A.) in School Counseling Dual Master of Arts (M.A./M.A.) in Theology and Ministry and Counseling Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Counseling Psychology Counseling Practicum Applied Psychology Practicum z_archive applied-developmental-and-educational-psychology-ma /counseling-psychology-phd Test Page school-counseling mental-health-counseling counseling-psychology-phd Faculty & Expertise Counseling Practicum Program Offerings Admission Mission Program Aims & Learning Outcomes Student Admissions, Outcomes, & Other Data About Our Program Counseling Psychology Accreditation Professional Associations Academics & Training ELHE Educational Leadership and Policy, M.Ed. Master of Arts (M.A.) in Higher Education Higher Education Interview Days Master of Arts (M.A.) in International Higher Education Dual Degree Program (M.A./M.B.A.) Dual Degree Program (J.D./M.Ed./M.A.) Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Educational Leadership Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Higher Education _z_archive Certificate in Social Justice Leadership About Us Higher Education Scholars @ BC Blog higher-education-ma Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Information master-of-arts-in-higher-education-master-of-business-administra law-and-education-dual-degree-programs Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in Educational Policy Development Educational Leadership & Higher Education Blog Field Experience Program History Higher Education FAQ Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Mary Kinnane Award IDPG Master of Arts (M.A.) in Learning Engineering _z_archive MESA M.S. in Applied Statistics and Psychometrics M.A. in Research and Evaluation Methods Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment _z_archive Test New MESA Faculty Member Mission Statement Margeau Jong MESA Testimonials applied-statistics-and-psychometrics-ms Graduate Testimonials Graduate Voices MESA Students MESA Alumni & Employment Data MESA Research TCS Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Curriculum and Instruction Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Early Childhood Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Elementary Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Jesuit Education in a Global World Master of Education (M.Ed., C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Moderate Support Needs Master of Education in Secondary Education Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Extensive Support Needs Global Perspectives Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Curriculum and Instruction Special Education Licensure Offerings M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Moderate Support Needs M.Ed. in Moderate & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Secondary Education & Moderate Support Needs Urban Catholic Teacher Corps Student Teaching _z_archive Teacher Certification Related Links Programs of Study Student Teaching Academic Calendar Study Abroad Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory & Expertise Research Opportunities AERA 2022 Presentations APA 2021 Presentations Related Links News & Videos Academic Calendar Centers & Initiatives Overview Administrators in Catholic Higher Ed Catholic Education Research Community Justice & Engaged Pedagogy Early Childhood Policy Equitable Instruction Initiative Formative Education International Higher Ed International Human Rights Center for Thriving Children Psychological Humanities & Ethics Roche Center Testing, Evaluation, & Educational Policy The Campus School The Study of Race & Culture TIMSS & PIRLS International Study Center Urban Outreach Initiatives Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program Work Intervention Network Community Overview Mentoring & Advising Service Learning Living in Boston Global BC Resources Related Links Diversity & Inclusion Global Faculty Directory & Expertise BC Campus Life BC Veterans News & Videos Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Lynch School Website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Admission Visit Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Non-Degree Students BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close home Academics Departments TCS Master of Education in Secondary Education Master of Education (M.Ed./M.A.T./M.S.T./C.A.E.S) in Secondary Education Master of Education (M.Ed./M.A.T./M.S.T./C.A.E.S) in Secondary Education TCS Teaching, Curriculum, and Society In our Secondary Education master's program, you can choose the degree that is right for your professional satisfaction and personal growth. Our master of education (M.Ed.), master of arts in teaching (M.A.T), and master of science in teaching (M.S.T) programs each have the coursework and school-based practicum experiences to help you develop the skills you will need in your teaching practice. All have the same academic foundation and will lead to grades 8–12 licensure in a STEM or humanities field. If you have an academic background in your area of interest, the M.Ed. may be right for you. The M.A.T. and M.S.T. include additional content area electives, offering you the opportunity to enrich your background in a specific content area. Apply Inquire At a Glance How many courses? M.Ed. students take 9 courses and a 4-course practicum (37 credits total). M.A.T. and M.S.T. students take 12 courses and a 4-course practicum (46 credits total). How long will it take? Full-time students typically complete the program in 1 academic year with 2 summer sessions. Part-time students typically complete the program in 2–3 years, depending on course load. When can I start? You can begin any of the programs in the spring, summer, or fall semesters. “What I want my students to understand is that teaching is a critical and vital way to serve and value human dignity and justice. That’s the core of teaching, and teacher training. ” Dr. Lillie Albert, Professor Curriculum Each of the three Secondary Education master's degree programs lead to grades 8-12 licensure in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in one of the following fields: Biology, Chemistry, Earth and Space Science, English, Foreign Language (Spanish or French), History, Mathematics, or Physics. Each also includes coursework in teaching methods, examining broad social features linked to formal education, content area electives, and school-based practicum courses with related Inquiry Seminars. Practicum experiences offer you opportunities to collaborate with fellow master’s students around issues of teaching and learning at practicum sites. To bolster your experience with English language learners in the classroom, you have the opportunity to obtain a Teaching English Language Learners (TELL) Certificate. Requirements Courses: 9 or 12 Practicum Courses: 4 Credits: 37 or 46 Comprehensive Exam Program of Study Practicum M.Ed. M.A.T. M.S.T. Master of Education (M.Ed.) The 37-credit program is recommend for all students—regardless of licensure discipline—if you have a background in their content area. E.g., it was your undergraduate major. M.Ed. licensure areas include Biology, Chemistry, Earth and Space Science, English, Foreign Language (Spanish or French), History, Mathematics, and Physics. Core: 7 Courses Course Course Title Credit APSY7419 Applied Adolescent Development This course is designed to provide students with an overview of the theoretical and empirical knowledge base concerning adolescent development. In particular, four broad areas will be considered: (1) psychological, biological, and cognitive transitions; (2) central developmental tasks of adolescence; (3) primary contextual influences; and (4) prevalent types of problematic functioning that emerge during adolescence. The overarching goals of the course are to provide a solid and broad understanding of how and why adolescents develop in the manner they do, and to extend this developmental understanding into research, application, and practice. 3 EDUC7435 Social Contexts of Education Examines the role of situational, school, community, peer, and family factors on the education of children. Participants in the course will strive to understand the effects of their own social context on their education, to develop strategies to help students understand their context, and to understand and contribute to what schools can do to improve teaching and learning and school culture for all students regardless of internal and external variables 3 EDUC7438 Educating Learners with Disabilities This course focuses on the education of students with disabilities and other learners from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds. The goal of the course is to promote access to the general curriculum for all students through participation in standards-based reform. Universal Design for Learning (UDL) provides the theoretical framework for this course. Through an examination of historical milestones, landmark legislation, systems for classification, approaches to intervention, and the daily life experiences of diverse learners, students acquire knowledge about diversity and the resources, services, and supports available for creating a more just society through education. 3 EDUC7447 Literacy and Assessment in Secondary Schools This course is an advanced study of literacy processes and strategies for use with students, including multiple subjects and content areas, and those literacies used outside of school contexts. Participants will investigate and regard literacy as social practice, situated in particular contexts and accessible to particular participations. 3 EDUC6347 Teaching Bilingual Students in Secondary Education Deals with the practical aspects of the instruction of teaching English Language Learners in Sheltered English Immersion, and mainstream classrooms. Reviews and applies literacy and content area instructional approaches. Includes such other topics as history and legislation related to English Language Learners and bilingual education, and the influences of language and culture on students, instruction, curriculum, and assessment. There are two sections of this course: one for elementary and early childhood education majors and one for secondary education majors. 3 Students will choose one: EDUC6589 Teaching and Learning Strategies Designed primarily for elementary and secondary education teacher candidates and practicing educators, this course helps them develop an initial repertoire of skills for teaching students with educational disabilities. The primary emphasis of this course is on the education of students with mild/moderate disabilities in inclusive classrooms. Participants will learn to develop comprehensive instructional plans fully inclusive of students with educational disabilities, utilize an IEP to guide instruction, develop accommodations and modifications appropriate to students and the curriculum, design individual, small, and large group instructions, and evaluate various service delivery options for educating students with special needs. 3 EDUC7621 Bilingualism, Second Language and Literacy Development Explores first and second language and literacy development of children raised bilingually as well as students acquiring a second language during pre-school, elementary, or secondary school years. Also addresses theories of first and second language acquisition, literacy development in the second language, and factors affecting second language and literacy learning. Participants will assess the development of one aspect of language or language skill of a bilingual individual and draw implications for instruction, parent involvement, and policy. 3 Students will choose one teaching methods class in their licensure discipline. Course Course Title Credit EDUC6300 Secondary and Middle School Science Methods Provides an active, instructional environment for science learning that enables each student to construct knowledge (skill, affective, and cognitive) that, in turn, allows them to be prepared to construct instructional environments meeting the needs of tomorrow's secondary and middle school students. Activities reflect on current research: reform movements of AAAS, NRC, NSTA, inclusive practices, interactions with experienced teachers, firsthand experience with instructional technology, and review and development of curriculum and related instructional materials. 3 EDUC6304 Secondary and Middle School Mathematics Methods Develops knowledge, skills, and dispositions essential for competent understanding, development, and delivery of effective English Language Arts instruction in a diverse classroom. Addresses educational and literary theory, pedagogy, assessment, evaluation, content, curriculum, media literacy, and sensitivity to and respect for adolescents who come from a variety of cultures, abilities, interests, and needs. Provides knowledge of local, state, and national standards and strategies to help students reach those standards. Encourages risk-taking, experimentation, flexibility, application of theory, and innovation. Good teaching demands open-mindedness, critical reading, writing, and thinking, honest reflection, high expectations, ongoing revision, and commitment to social justice. 3 EDUC6301 Secondary and Middle School History Methods Demonstrates methods for organizing instruction, using original sources, developing critical thinking, facilitating inquiry learning, integrating social studies, and evaluation. Students will design lessons and units, drawing on material from the Massachusetts state history standards and other sources. 3 EDUC6302 Secondary and Middle School English Methods Develops knowledge, skills, and dispositions essential for competent understanding, development, and delivery of effective English Language Arts instruction in a diverse classroom. Addresses educational and literary theory, pedagogy, assessment, evaluation, content, curriculum, media literacy, and sensitivity to and respect for adolescents who come from a variety of cultures, abilities, interests, and needs. Provides knowledge of local, state, and national standards and strategies to help students reach those standards. Encourages risk-taking, experimentation, flexibility, application of theory, and innovation. Good teaching demands open-mindedness, critical reading, writing, and thinking, honest reflection, high expectations, ongoing revision, and commitment to social justice. 3 EDUC6303 Secondary and Middle School Foreign Language Methods An introduction to foreign-language pedagogy and its basis in the theory of second-language acquisition, linguistic analysis, and psycholinguistic research. A discussion of language teaching and methods within the framework of those fields.The course offers reviews of the principal literature on second-language acquisition and linguistic theory but focuses on their practical application in the classroom. 3 Electives: 2 Courses Students will select 2 electives (3 credits each) with the help of their advisor. Practicum: 4 Courses For the initial pre-practicum, candidates typically spend one day per week in a school setting with a mentor teacher. For the full practicum, candidates work full-time for 14 weeks in all aspects of classroom teaching working closely with a cooperating teacher and university supervisor. Course Course Title Credit EDUC7431 Graduate Inquiry Seminar I The course will coincide with the pre-practicum experience. It is designed to introduce teacher candidates to inquiry as stance and the skills necessary to conduct classroom-based research that leads to pupil achievement and teaching for social justice. The course is designed to help teacher candidates mediate the relationships of theory and practice, pose questions for inquiry, learn through reflection and discussion, learn from their students and colleagues, construct critical perspectives about teaching, learning, and schooling, and to improve teaching and learning. The second part of this sequence is 432 which is taken in conjunction with full-time student teaching (EDUC7420). 1 EDUC7429 Graduate Pre-practicum This is a pre-practicum experience for students in graduate programs leading to certification. Placements are made in selected schools in the greater Boston area. Apply to the Office of Practicum Experiences and Teacher Induction during the semester preceding the placement by April 15 for fall placements and December 1 for spring placements. Students who are accepted into a program after the deadlines are requested to submit the application upon notification. 1 EDUC7432 Graduate Inquiry Seminar II The primary goal of this capstone seminar is to initiate teacher candidates into the practice of teacher research or collaborative inquiry for action. Collaborative Inquiry for Action is an ongoing, collaborative process of systematic and self-critical inquiry by educators about their own schools and classrooms in order to increase teachers' knowledge, improve students' learning, and contribute to social justice. This final project will be presented at a roundtable presentation at the end of the semester and also satisfies the M.Ed., MAT, MST Comprehensive Examination in Education. 2 EDUC7420 Graduate Full Practicum / Initial License A semester-long, full-time, five day a week practicum experience for graduate students in early childhood, elementary and secondary education. The course is designed to meet the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Educations requirements for endorsement from Boston College. Students will be guided by a qualified school-based mentor (Supervising Practitioner) and a university-based mentor (Program Supervisor). In addition to registering for the course, students must complete the online application (https://bc-us.inplacesoftware.com/student) during the semester preceding the placement by April 15 for fall placements and December 1 for spring placements. Contact the Office of Field Placement and Partnership Outreach at prac@bc.edu for more information. Department permission required after August/December 15. 6 Master's Comprehensive Exam Course Course Title Credit EDUC8100 Master's Comprehensive Exam In order to ensure that all students graduating from the master's program have a fundamental understanding of the field which they are about to enter, they are required to take a written comprehensive examination covering the broad areas of the core courses. 0 Master of Arts in Teaching (M.A.T.) This 46-credit program is for students seeking teacher licensure in history, English, or a foreign language who need to develop content area expertise in their licensure discipline. The M.A.T. is recommended because it has three more additional content area electives than the M.Ed. M.A.T. licensure areas include English, Foreign Language (Spanish or French), or History. Core: 7 Courses Course Course Title Credit APSY7419 Applied Adolescent Development This course is designed to provide students with an overview of the theoretical and empirical knowledge base concerning adolescent development. In particular, four broad areas will be considered: (1) psychological, biological, and cognitive transitions; (2) central developmental tasks of adolescence; (3) primary contextual influences; and (4) prevalent types of problematic functioning that emerge during adolescence. The overarching goals of the course are to provide a solid and broad understanding of how and why adolescents develop in the manner they do, and to extend this developmental understanding into research, application, and practice. 3 EDUC7435 Social Contexts of Education Examines the role of situational, school, community, peer, and family factors on the education of children. Participants in the course will strive to understand the effects of their own social context on their education, to develop strategies to help students understand their context, and to understand and contribute to what schools can do to improve teaching and learning and school culture for all students regardless of internal and external variables 3 EDUC7438 Instruction of Students with Special Needs and of Diverse Learners This course focuses on the education of students with disabilities and other learners from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds. The goal of the course is to promote access to the general curriculum for all students through participation in standards-based reform. Universal Design for Learning (UDL) provides the theoretical framework for this course. Through an examination of historical milestones, landmark legislation, systems for classification, approaches to intervention, and the daily life experiences of diverse learners, students acquire knowledge about diversity and the resources, services, and supports available for creating a more just society through education. 3 EDUC7447 Literacy and Assessment in Secondary Schools This course is an advanced study of literacy processes and strategies for use with students, including multiple subjects and content areas, and those literacies used outside of school contexts. Participants will investigate and regard literacy as social practice, situated in particular contexts and accessible to particular participations. 3 EDUC6347 Teaching Bilingual Students in Secondary Education Deals with the practical aspects of the instruction of teaching English Language Learners in Sheltered English Immersion, and mainstream classrooms. Reviews and applies literacy and content area instructional approaches. Includes such other topics as history and legislation related to English Language Learners and bilingual education, and the influences of language and culture on students, instruction, curriculum, and assessment. There are two sections of this course: one for elementary and early childhood education majors and one for secondary education majors. 3 Students will choose one: EDUC6589 Teaching and Learning Strategies for Inclusive Secondary Educators Designed primarily for elementary and secondary education teacher candidates and practicing educators, this course helps them develop an initial repertoire of skills for teaching students with educational disabilities. The primary emphasis of this course is on the education of students with mild/moderate disabilities in inclusive classrooms. Participants will learn to develop comprehensive instructional plans fully inclusive of students with educational disabilities, utilize an IEP to guide instruction, develop accommodations and modifications appropriate to students and the curriculum, design individual, small, and large group instructions, and evaluate various service delivery options for educating students with special needs. 3 EDUC7621 Bilingualism, Second Language and Literacy Development Explores first and second language and literacy development of children raised bilingually as well as students acquiring a second language during pre-school, elementary, or secondary school years. Also addresses theories of first and second language acquisition, literacy development in the second language, and factors affecting second language and literacy learning. Participants will assess the development of one aspect of language or language skill of a bilingual individual and draw implications for instruction, parent involvement, and policy. 3 Students will choose one teaching methods class in their licensure discipline. Course Course Title Credit EDUC6301 Secondary and Middle School History Methods Demonstrates methods for organizing instruction, using original sources, developing critical thinking, facilitating inquiry learning, integrating social studies, and evaluation. Students will design lessons and units, drawing on material from the Massachusetts state history standards and other sources. 3 EDUC6302 Secondary and Middle School English Methods Develops knowledge, skills, and dispositions essential for competent understanding, development, and delivery of effective English Language Arts instruction in a diverse classroom. Addresses educational and literary theory, pedagogy, assessment, evaluation, content, curriculum, media literacy, and sensitivity to and respect for adolescents who come from a variety of cultures, abilities, interests, and needs. Provides knowledge of local, state, and national standards and strategies to help students reach those standards. Encourages risk-taking, experimentation, flexibility, application of theory, and innovation. Good teaching demands open-mindedness, critical reading, writing, and thinking, honest reflection, high expectations, ongoing revision, and commitment to social justice. 3 EDUC6303 Secondary and Middle School Foreign Language Methods An introduction to foreign-language pedagogy and its basis in the theory of second-language acquisition, linguistic analysis, and psycholinguistic research. A discussion of language teaching and methods within the framework of those fields.The course offers reviews of the principal literature on second-language acquisition and linguistic theory but focuses on their practical application in the classroom. 3 Electives: 5 Courses Students will select 5 content area electives (3 credits each) with the help of their advisor. Practicum: 4 Courses For the initial pre-practicum, candidates typically spend one day per week in a school setting with a mentor teacher. For the full practicum, candidates work full-time for 14 weeks in all aspects of classroom teaching working closely with a cooperating teacher and university supervisor. Course Course Title Credit EDUC7431 Graduate Inquiry Seminar I The course will coincide with the pre-practicum experience. It is designed to introduce teacher candidates to inquiry as stance and the skills necessary to conduct classroom-based research that leads to pupil achievement and teaching for social justice. The course is designed to help teacher candidates mediate the relationships of theory and practice, pose questions for inquiry, learn through reflection and discussion, learn from their students and colleagues, construct critical perspectives about teaching, learning, and schooling, and to improve teaching and learning. The second part of this sequence is 432 which is taken in conjunction with full-time student teaching (EDUC7420). 1 EDUC7429 Graduate Pre-practicum This is a pre-practicum experience for students in graduate programs leading to certification. Placements are made in selected schools in the greater Boston area. Apply to the Office of Practicum Experiences and Teacher Induction during the semester preceding the placement by April 15 for fall placements and December 1 for spring placements. Students who are accepted into a program after the deadlines are requested to submit the application upon notification. 1 EDUC7432 Graduate Inquiry Seminar II The primary goal of this capstone seminar is to initiate teacher candidates into the practice of teacher research or collaborative inquiry for action. Collaborative Inquiry for Action is an ongoing, collaborative process of systematic and self-critical inquiry by educators about their own schools and classrooms in order to increase teachers' knowledge, improve students' learning, and contribute to social justice. This final project will be presented at a roundtable presentation at the end of the semester and also satisfies the M.Ed., MAT, MST Comprehensive Examination in Education. 2 EDUC7420 Graduate Full Practicum / Initial License A semester-long practicum, five full days per week, for graduate students in the following licensure programs: Early Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary. Placements are made in selected schools in the greater Boston area, and designated international settings. Apply to the Office of Practicum Experiences and Teacher Induction during the semester preceding the placement: by March 15 for fall placements and by October 15 for spring placements. 6 Master's Comprehensive Exam Course Course Title Credit EDUC8100 Master's Comprehensive Exam In order to ensure that all students graduating from the master's program have a fundamental understanding of the field which they are about to enter, they are required to take a written comprehensive examination covering the broad areas of the core courses. 0 M.S.T. The 46-credit program is for students seeking teacher licensure in the sciences or mathematics who need to develop content area expertise in their licensure discipline. The M.S.T. is recommended since it has three more additional content area electives than the M.Ed. M.S.T. licensure areas include Biology, Chemistry, Earth and Space Science, Mathematics, and Physics. Core: 7 Courses Course Course Title Credit APSY7419 Applied Adolescent Development This course is designed to provide students with an overview of the theoretical and empirical knowledge base concerning adolescent development. In particular, four broad areas will be considered: (1) psychological, biological, and cognitive transitions; (2) central developmental tasks of adolescence; (3) primary contextual influences; and (4) prevalent types of problematic functioning that emerge during adolescence. The overarching goals of the course are to provide a solid and broad understanding of how and why adolescents develop in the manner they do, and to extend this developmental understanding into research, application, and practice. 3 EDUC7435 Social Contexts of Education Examines the role of situational, school, community, peer, and family factors on the education of children. Participants in the course will strive to understand the effects of their own social context on their education, to develop strategies to help students understand their context, and to understand and contribute to what schools can do to improve teaching and learning and school culture for all students regardless of internal and external variables 3 EDUC7438 Instruction for the Special Needs and of Diverse Learners This course focuses on the education of students with disabilities and other learners from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds. The goal of the course is to promote access to the general curriculum for all students through participation in standards-based reform. Universal Design for Learning (UDL) provides the theoretical framework for this course. Through an examination of historical milestones, landmark legislation, systems for classification, approaches to intervention, and the daily life experiences of diverse learners, students acquire knowledge about diversity and the resources, services, and supports available for creating a more just society through education. 3 EDUC7447 Literacy and Assessment in Secondary Schools This course is an advanced study of literacy processes and strategies for use with students, including multiple subjects and content areas, and those literacies used outside of school contexts. Participants will investigate and regard literacy as social practice, situated in particular contexts and accessible to particular participations. 3 EDUC6347 Teaching Bilingual Students in Secondary Education Deals with the practical aspects of the instruction of teaching English Language Learners in Sheltered English Immersion, and mainstream classrooms. Reviews and applies literacy and content area instructional approaches. Includes such other topics as history and legislation related to English Language Learners and bilingual education, and the influences of language and culture on students, instruction, curriculum, and assessment. There are two sections of this course: one for elementary and early childhood education majors and one for secondary education majors. 3 Students will choose one: EDUC6589 Teaching and Learning Strategies for Inclusive Secondary Educators Designed primarily for elementary and secondary education teacher candidates and practicing educators, this course helps them develop an initial repertoire of skills for teaching students with educational disabilities. The primary emphasis of this course is on the education of students with mild/moderate disabilities in inclusive classrooms. Participants will learn to develop comprehensive instructional plans fully inclusive of students with educational disabilities, utilize an IEP to guide instruction, develop accommodations and modifications appropriate to students and the curriculum, design individual, small, and large group instructions, and evaluate various service delivery options for educating students with special needs. 3 EDUC7621 Bilingualism, Second Language and Literacy Development Explores first and second language and literacy development of children raised bilingually as well as students acquiring a second language during pre-school, elementary, or secondary school years. Also addresses theories of first and second language acquisition, literacy development in the second language, and factors affecting second language and literacy learning. Participants will assess the development of one aspect of language or language skill of a bilingual individual and draw implications for instruction, parent involvement, and policy. 3 Students will choose one teaching methods class in their licensure discipline. Course Course Title Credit EDUC6300 Secondary and Middle School Science Methods Provides an active, instructional environment for science learning that enables each student to construct knowledge (skill, affective, and cognitive) that, in turn, allows them to be prepared to construct instructional environments meeting the needs of tomorrow's secondary and middle school students. Activities reflect on current research: reform movements of AAAS, NRC, NSTA, inclusive practices, interactions with experienced teachers, firsthand experience with instructional technology, and review and development of curriculum and related instructional materials. 3 EDUC6304 Secondary and Middle School Mathematics Methods Develops knowledge, skills, and dispositions essential for competent understanding, development, and delivery of effective English Language Arts instruction in a diverse classroom. Addresses educational and literary theory, pedagogy, assessment, evaluation, content, curriculum, media literacy, and sensitivity to and respect for adolescents who come from a variety of cultures, abilities, interests, and needs. Provides knowledge of local, state, and national standards and strategies to help students reach those standards. Encourages risk-taking, experimentation, flexibility, application of theory, and innovation. Good teaching demands open-mindedness, critical reading, writing, and thinking, honest reflection, high expectations, ongoing revision, and commitment to social justice. 3 Electives: 5 Courses Students will select 5 content area electives (3 credits each) from the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences with the help of their advisor. Practicum: 4 Courses For the initial pre-practicum, candidates typically spend one day per week in a school setting with a mentor teacher. For the full practicum, candidates work full-time for 14 weeks in all aspects of classroom teaching working closely with a cooperating teacher and university supervisor. Course Course Title Credit EDUC7431 Graduate Inquiry Seminar I The course will coincide with the pre-practicum experience. It is designed to introduce teacher candidates to inquiry as stance and the skills necessary to conduct classroom-based research that leads to pupil achievement and teaching for social justice. The course is designed to help teacher candidates mediate the relationships of theory and practice, pose questions for inquiry, learn through reflection and discussion, learn from their students and colleagues, construct critical perspectives about teaching, learning, and schooling, and to improve teaching and learning. The second part of this sequence is 432 which is taken in conjunction with full-time student teaching (EDUC7420). 1 EDUC7429 Graduate Pre-Practicum This is a pre-practicum experience for students in graduate programs leading to certification. Placements are made in selected schools in the greater Boston area. Apply to the Office of Practicum Experiences and Teacher Induction during the semester preceding the placement by April 15 for fall placements and December 1 for spring placements. Students who are accepted into a program after the deadlines are requested to submit the application upon notification. 1 EDUC7432 Graduate Inquiry Seminar II The primary goal of this capstone seminar is to initiate teacher candidates into the practice of teacher research or collaborative inquiry for action. Collaborative Inquiry for Action is an ongoing, collaborative process of systematic and self-critical inquiry by educators about their own schools and classrooms in order to increase teachers' knowledge, improve students' learning, and contribute to social justice. This final project will be presented at a roundtable presentation at the end of the semester and also satisfies the M.Ed., MAT, MST Comprehensive Examination in Education. 2 EDUC7420 Graduate Full Practicum / Initial License A semester-long practicum, five full days per week, for graduate students in the following licensure programs: Early Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary. Placements are made in selected schools in the greater Boston area, and designated international settings. Apply to the Office of Practicum Experiences and Teacher Induction during the semester preceding the placement: by March 15 for fall placements and by October 15 for spring placements. 6 Master's Comprehensive Exam Course Course Title Credit EDUC8100 Master's Comprehensive Exam In order to ensure that all students graduating from the master's program have a fundamental understanding of the field which they are about to enter, they are required to take a written comprehensive examination covering the broad areas of the core courses. *Fulfilled through Inquiry Seminar II 0 Learning Outcomes In the M.Ed., M.A.T., and M.S.T. programs in Secondary Education at Boston College, you will promote the learning and growth of all students through: High-quality and coherent instruction, designing and administering authentic and meaningful student assessments, analyzing student performance and growth data, using this data to improve instruction, providing students with constructive feedback on an on-going basis, and continuously refining learning objectives Instructional practices that establish high expectations, create a safe and effective classroom environment, and demonstrate cultural proficiency Effective partnerships with families, caregivers, community members, and organizations Ethical, culturally proficient, skilled, and collaborative practice Critical reflection about personal practice through individual and collaborative inquiry in service of improving pupil academic, emotional, and social learning Student Teaching Professional experiences comprise early field experiences, referred to as pre-practicum placements, and an immersive, semester-long full practicum experience. Pre-practicum Graduate students complete a pre-practicum experience, which consists of one school day per week for 10 weeks. Full Practicum Full-practicum Experience is five days each week in the classroom for the entire semester. Support You are guided by a qualified school-based mentor and a university-based mentor Licensure Designed to meet the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education's (DESE) requirements for endorsement from Boston College, leading to licensure. Variety of Settings Experience a range of urban and suburban public, private, parochial, and charter schools in Greater Boston Accreditation We are an approved teacher preparation program by the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. LSEHD Licensure Disclosure Faculty View More View Less Financial Aid Education should level the playing field. We feel the same way about financial aid. The Lynch School of Education and Human Development provides more than $8.4 million in financial aid to students each year. As a result, the quality of BC’s instruction, the benefit of our alumni network, and the impact a BC degree will have on your employment options is both affordable and invaluable. More About Financial Aid Careers Roles Assistant Principal of Academics Fourth Grade Teacher Sixth Grade Teacher High School History Teacher Director of Exhibits Court Procedures Attorney First Grade Teacher Special Education Teacher Mathematics Instructor School Principal & ELL Coordinator Organizations St. John's Preparatory School Littleton Public Schools Papillion La Vista School District Concord-Carlisle Regional School District Museum of Science Goodwin Procter LLP Boston Public Schools Needham Public Schools Steppingstone Foundation North Attleborough Public Schools Apply Apply Print Application & Deadlines Apply Now A non-refundable application fee of $75 is required; however, this fee is waived for select applicants. Deadlines Fall Regular Decision — 1/6 Rolling Admission — Until 7/15 Intl. Applicants — Until 7/1 Spring Regular Decision — 11/1 Summer Regular Decision — 4/1 Résumé To be uploaded to your online Application Form. In addition to your academic history and relevant work experience, please include any licenses currently held, any social justice-related experience, any language skills other than English, and any research experience or publications. Personal Statement To be uploaded to your online Application Form. In 1,000-1,500 words, describe your academic and professional goals, any experience relevant to this program, and your future plans, expectations, and aspirations. Letters of Recommendation Identification of recommenders/instructions to recommenders are outlined in the online Application Form. Two letters of recommendation are required with at least one required from an academic source. Applicants may submit one additional recommendation of their choice. Transcripts Unofficial transcripts will be accepted in lieu of official transcripts for the application review process. In the event that one is admitted into a program and enrolls, our office will need official transcripts prior to course registration. To expedite application processing times, our office encourages you to send unofficial transcripts electronically to our email address at GSOE@BC.EDU. Please note that unofficial transcripts must include all of the following items: Course titles and grades for each course Year and entry term for each of the courses listed Translated into English by certified translation agent (if not already in English) Original and translated transcripts must be provided If you are able to secure official transcripts, please note the following: An official postsecondary transcript must be printed on official institutional paper and include at least one of the following: an institutional watermark, the registrar’s signature, or the registrar's seal. Copies and unofficial transcripts sent directly from applicants are not acceptable, the transcript must come directly from the institution. If you are a current student and have not completed your undergraduate and/or graduate degree, the most updated version of your transcript is acceptable. Official electronic transcripts are accepted when sent directly to gsoe@bc.edu from the institution. When requesting electronic transcripts, you must manually type in gsoe@bc.edu to ensure it is received by our office. Mailed transcript(s) should be sent to the following address: Lynch Office of Graduate Admissions, Boston College Campion Hall 135 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Standardized Tests Submitting GRE test scores is optional and not required for 2022 entry term(s). If you wish to send GRE scores, the Lynch School GRE code is 3218. Writing Sample Not required. International Students International applicants are encouraged to apply to the Lynch School of Education and Human Development. Requirements for International Students Quick Links Facts & Figures Faculty Why LSEHD? Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Tuition & Aid Department TCS Teaching, Curriculum, and Society Contact Us gsoe@bc.edu 617-552-4214 Back To Top Back To Top Carolyn A. and Peter S. Lynch School of Education and Human Development Campion Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4200 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Community Apply Visit Give CONNECT WITH US Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College