Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Councils & Groups Home Connect Councils & Groups Connect Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters Class and School Engagement Spirituality Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Councils, Affinity Groups & Networks By tapping into our alumni’s shared passions, interests and identities the BC Alumni Association’s affinity groups provide an avenue for alumni and friends to connect to each other and the University in deep and meaningful ways. Groups are based on specific areas of interest, which can be academic, cultural, professional, social, or spiritual. AHANA Alumni Advisory Council Much more than an acronym, the AHANA Alumni Advisory Council promotes the involvement of African-American, Hispanic/Latinx, Asian-American, and Native American alumni in the life of the University. Learn more Alumni Arts Circle The Alumni Arts Circle seeks to foster the interaction of BC alumni, parents, and friends with the broad cultural offerings of the Arts. Learn more The Council for Women of Boston College The Council aims to increase the involvement and influence of alumnae in all aspects of life at BC. Full and associate membership options are available, with discounts given to GOLD (Graduates Of the Last Decade). Learn more Energy & Environment Alumni Network BCEEAN provides networking opportunities and educational programs for alumni interested in energy and the environment. Alumni also engage with students and support BC’s mission. Learn more Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program Alumni Council The Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program Alumni Council provides a community to continue advancing the relationships of Alumni Scholars. Learn more Hellenic Alumni Network The mission of the Hellenic Alumni Network is to increase the involvement and influence of Greek alumni in the University and promote initiatives highlighting Greek culture. Learn more LGBTQ+ Alumni Council The Boston College LGBTQ+ Alumni Council aims to build a strong community of alumni who identify as, and/or support those who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and/or queer. Learn more Public Service Alumni Network The mission of the Boston College Public Service Alumni Network is to engage alumni who have dedicated a portion of their academic or professional career to government public service. Learn more The Real Estate Council Open to all Boston College alumni, parents and friends engaged in real estate and related industries, the Real Estate Council seeks to advance the professional goals of the community it serves while deepening its ongoing relationship with and support of Boston College. Learn more Student Alumni Council The Student Alumni Council works on behalf of the Boston College Alumni Association to encourage students to build lifelong connections with the university. Learn more Technology & Entrepreneurship Council The Technology & Entrepreneurship Council's mission is to bring together members of the technology and entrepreneurship communities to help advance the mission of BC. Learn more Veterans Alumni Network The Veterans Alumni Network was established to honor the University’s servicemen and women and to strengthen the bonds among alumni, veterans, and the greater BC community. Learn more Wall Street Council Formed to create a network of BC alumni, parents, and friends in the financial profession, the Wall Street Council develops collaborative relationships and fosters greater synergy between the University and the financial community. Learn more Woods College Alumni Council The WCAS Alumni Council brings together alumni from the Boston Intown School, the BC Evening College, and the Woods College of Advancing Studies to support the mission of the University. Learn more Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok