COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Art, Design and Creative Industries, Minor MinorArt, Design and Creative Industries All Programs College of Fine Arts Art, Design and Creative Industries The minor in art, design and creative industries (ADCI) exposes you to a wide variety of art areas. You'll increase your art literacy and appreciation—and gain knowledge you can apply in a variety of careers. Learn how Art, Design and Creative Industries is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the School of Art, Design and Creative Industries, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Fine Arts student creates art at GoCreate Fine Arts students have the opporunity to express their creativity in a varitety of ways. Collin Allen is a father of three, a full-time student and a creator of whatever he puts his mind to. He has been making art, jewelry, furniture and paintings for himself and others for over 26 years, but found a new outlet for his creativity at WSU's GoCreate. Curriculum A minor in ADCI includes 18 credit hours of coursework. Areas of study include: studio art, art education, graphic design and art history. ADCI majors are not eligible for the minor in ADCI. ADCI minors must declare their status to ensure registration privileges in restricted courses. View the curriculum Careers A minor in art, design and creative industries from Wichita State will nurture your creativity and give you the knowledge, skills and connections for success in the workforce—and in graduate studies. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Art Applied Drawing (Studio Art) Community & Social Practices (Studio Art) Art History Electronic Media (Studio Art) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©