Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty & Staff Forms Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Faculty & Staff Authorized Signatures FERPA Compliance Scheduling & Term Planning Self Service & Online Aids Take Action View Calendars Order Transcripts View Notices Contact Us Home Registrar Faculty & Staff FERPA Compliance FERPA Compliance All University employees are charged, under FERPA (Family Education Rights and Privacy Act), with safeguarding the privacy of student education records. All Faculty must complete the FERPA Tutorial and should be aware of the information listed below. FERPA Tutorial You must complete the FERPA Tutorial if you need access to the Banner Student Information system; this system encompasses Admin Pages and Faculty Self Service. Faculty Access to Student Data As a University of Memphis faculty or administrative staff member, you may request access to student records, provided you have a legitimate need for these records that pertains to your University duties. Reporting FERPA Violations If you believe a FERPA violation may have occurred, follow these steps. Contact the Registrar's Office immediately. Speak to Sheynah Craft, Assistant Registrar of Student Records, before notifying anyone else of the violation. If Ms. Craft is not available, speak to Dr. Darla Keel, Registrar. Write a summary of the violation, and submit it to the Assistant Registrar of Student Records. When a FERPA violation is reported, the Registrar's Office will complete the following steps. Investigate the complaint. Meet with all parties involved. Involve other areas (e.g., Office of Legal Counsel, Information Technology Services) depending upon the details and scope of the violation. Write up a complaint summary upon completion of the investigation. Writing Letters of Recommendation Because a letter of recommendation may include information from the student's academic record, and is itself considered part of the student's academic record, writing a letter of recommendation is not as straightforward as you might think. Privacy of Education Records: Compliance with FERPA Read UofM's official policy on FERPA compliance. Other Resources FERPA (US Code) Overview of FERPA US Department of Education FERPA Regulations Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/8/19 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.