Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Health Care Events Blog For Alumni For Recruiters Other Initiatives Other Initiatives Business & Environment Business History Digital Entrepreneurship Gender Leadership Social Enterprise Impact MBA Experience Faculty & Research Executive Education Health Care Initiative FAQs …→ Harvard Business School→ Health Care→ Health Care Initiative Health Care Initiative History Fast Facts Leadership → Health Care Initiative The Health Care Initiative impacts managerial practice and the pace of innovation by educating leaders and innovators who aspire to improve value across the health care industry. The Initiative fosters and promotes faculty research, supports the development of a portfolio of high-impact educational programs, and creates an interconnected HBS health care community. History Fast Facts Leadership THE HEALTH CARE INITIATIVE SUPPORTS: MBA Students by promoting the delivery of an MBA program that allows students to focus on health care through industry-related courses, extracurricular activities, and recruiting opportunities. Faculty by facilitating collaboration among faculty members to promote the generation of new knowledge and concepts in health care management and innovation, and to disseminate these works. Alumni by offering opportunities to participate in health care activities at HBS, and through the ongoing development of the alumni health care network. Executive Education Participants by developing programs that disseminate knowledge and influence practice across all industries within the health care sector. Health Care Initiative Advisory Board This active group of senior health care professionals from across the globe provides insight on the health care curriculum, offers opinions on research direction, supports student placement efforts, and assists in promoting the Health Care Initiative. The HBS Difference At HBS, students become tomorrow’s health care leaders. They study innovative health care organizations, put leadership into action through field-based activities, and participate in over 200 health care events across Harvard. With thousands of health care alumni around the world, HBS graduates are making a difference in health care. From Kathy Giusti to John Crowley to Peter Slavin - HBS alumni fund, start, and run health care organizations that create innovative change. More on Academics 36 physicians volunteered to have students shadow them to learn more about the front lines of care delivery 223 pairs were matched as part of the Student-Alumni Mentor Program in 2018 10% of first-year students complete summer internships in health care 200 health care-focused events, conferences, forums, panels, and lectures are held annually at HBS and across the University “With each new class comes a variety of opportunities around the case, which adds to the richness of the teaching and learning experience.” Robert S. Huckman Howard Cox Health Care Initiative Faculty Chair “With each new class comes a variety of opportunities around the case, which adds to the richness of the teaching and learning experience.” Robert S. Huckman Howard Cox Health Care Initiative Faculty Chair Initiatives focus on societal challenges that are too complex for any one discipline or industry to solve alone. ǁ Health Care Initiative Harvard Business School Cotting House Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6032 Email: healthcare_initiative@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College