Skip to main content Office of Student Financial Aid Toggle navigation Main navigation My FinAid Account Types of Aid Resources & Policies Forms Financial Aid Process Wear RED | Save GREEN The University of Maryland aims for excellence in all things. We are committed to providing students from all backgrounds with pathways to accessible and affordable education by opening doors for talent and promise. My FinAid Account Your FinAid account is where you can check the status of any aid and/or offers, find disbursement information and learn more about entrance and exit counseling. Popular FAQs Check out these popular FAQs to get answers to your financial aid and billing questions: Billing FAQs Financial Aid FAQs Loan FAQs Financial Aid Process Understanding the financial aid process is critical in setting realistic expectations. We are committed to providing you with helpful information and resources that can assist in making your investment in a UMD education affordable. Types of Aid Types of aid can be classified as either need-based, meaning you and your family are not able to cover educational expenses, or non-need based, which generally refers to aid you receive based on merit or qualification. Convenient Resources Stay on track by taking advantage of these convenient resources: Verification Process Important Dates Helpful Links Summer Aid Apply for Aid Now The 2022-2023 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is available. The University of Maryland, College Park school code is 002103. For an overview of the process, please watch this FAFSA walkthrough video. In response to the coronavirus pandemic, the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund was created to provide universities with funds for emergency financial aid grants. Learn more about the UMD Emergency Financial Aid Grant, the UMD Student COVID Relief Grant or the UMD Student COVID Relief Grant II. Federal loan repayment will restart* effective August 31, 2022. If you have a federal loan and expect to restart your repayment on August 31, 2022, please review the Returning to Repayment Fact Sheet and our Repaying Your Loans page. *Federal loan repayment has been suspended for the last two years due to the pandemic. Search Our Video Library AFFORDABLE | Low in-state tuition, providing a world-class education at a public institution pricetag. VALUE | Ranked 10th for in-state and 16th for out-of-state students by Kiplinger's Personal Finance 100 Best Values in Public Colleges 2018. ACCESS | We offer many financial aid programs including scholarships and grants to turn your dream into a degree. All Undergraduate Students $9,074 - average amount of aid received 72% - freshmen that receive financial aid Graduating Class of 2016 $52,091 - median salary Office of Student Financial Aid 0115 Mitchell Building 7999 Regents Drive College Park, MD 20742 USA P: 301.314.8377 umdfinaid@umd.edu ©2019 All rights reserved Social Networks menu Facebook Twitter YouTube Footer Consumer Information & Federal Notices Contact Us Office of Graduate Admissions Office of Undergraduate Admissions Web Accessibility Privacy Notice Site Map