Indoor face covering requirements reinstated through June 13. More COVID-19 information. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply UC Riverside University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside Search About About Overview Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Find Information for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges and Schools UCR Extension Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost Veteran Admissions Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Research Research Overview Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Library Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Campus Life Campus Life Overview Events Campus Map Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety Botanic Gardens Housing Dining About Riverside Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply Undergraduate Research Breadcrumb Research Undergraduate Research Learning that Goes Beyond the Classroom Explorers. Activists. Leaders. Entrepreneurs. These are just a few of the ways we describe our undergraduate students at UC Riverside. And for these extraordinary individuals, learning extends far beyond the classroom. UCR undergraduate students have opportunities to participate in real-world, interdisciplinary research — including academic internships, workshops and symposia, and fieldwork — that has an economic, scientific, and social impact on our increasingly interconnected world. Working alongside our award-winning faculty members — including two Nobel Prize winners and 13 members of the Academies of Science and Medicine — UCR undergraduates make a difference on campus and beyond, helping to forge paths of discovery that will benefit generations to come. Explore More: UCR Undergraduate Education Related Topics Research Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Feature Profile Cebrina Nolan Cebrina Nolan, Entomology, works on the venom component adenosine deaminase (ADA) on the cockroach with Dr. Michael Adams, Entomology. This research will elucidate the impacts of ADA on the arthropod CNS and provide new insights regarding host manipulation by wasp venom. Cebrina was a Chancellor’s Research Fellow for 2018-2019. In 2019-2020 she will serve as a Fulbright Research Award Scholar in Australia. Undergraduate Research Portal The uResearch Portal is a one-stop shop for students to discover faculty-mentored research, scholarship, and creative opportunities that support and build their skills and interests. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 1156 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webteam@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Return UCR Admissions UCR News Colleges and Schools Graduate Division UCR Jobs UCR Health Giving Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel