By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Syracuse Abroad Strasbourg In this Section First-Semester Option Strasbourg, France Come study abroad in Strasbourg, one of Europe’s most international and student-friendly cities. Strasbourg is just a 10-minute bike ride from Germany and an easy train ride to Paris or Switzerland. It is also home to Europe’s most important political institutions—the European Parliament, the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights. In Strasbourg, you will find both the charm of the old and the dynamism of the new. More than 40,000 students from around the world come here to study every year, and the city is rich in social, cultural and educational opportunity. Previous study of French is not required, since courses at Syracuse Strasbourg are offered in both French and English. First-semester study abroad available. Begin Your Application Syracuse Strasbourg Courses Syracuse Strasbourg courses make the most of what the city and region offer. Your professors—who come from many countries and are often professionals in politics, diplomacy and law—incorporate visits, guest speakers and field study into their classes. You can expect a curriculum that is rigorous, innovative and distinguished by the same exceptional standards that apply in every other aspect of a Syracuse University academic experience. Your courses may fulfill curricular requirements so you can stay on track to graduate on time. Explore a range of topics across disciplines at the center. Study in Depth Each Syracuse Abroad center offers depth in particular areas of study. At Syracuse Strasbourg, these include: International relations European politics and media Human rights French language, literature and culture European history Engineering Wondering if Syracuse Strasbourg is the right fit for you? Refine your Syracuse Abroad options to discover the program that best fits your academic goals. Semester Programs Link Participate in a broad selection of courses in the arts and sciences, communications, economics and international business, music, and all levels of French language and literature. Or take part in a Strasbourg Center semester program tailored to your area of study in French language, engineering or music performance. There are also opportunities to study at our partner institutions, Sciences Po Strasbourg or the University of Strasbourg Summer Programs Link Participate in one of the many exciting summer program options in Strasbourg, gateway to the fascinating political landscape of the new Europe. Travel with Purpose Link During your semester abroad, you’ll be learning both in and out of the classroom through signature seminars. Students in the music program explore Paris, Berlin and Leipzig with their music history professor. Engineering and ﬁrst-year students start their studies with a short trip to nearby Germany and Austria. All other students participate in the pre-semester European Identity Seminar, a 3-credit course designed to introduce you to pressing issues that face Europe today. At Home in Strasbourg Link Your Syracuse Abroad experience is enhanced through your housing options. You’ll live with a French host family either within the city of Strasbourg or in its immediate outskirts, allowing you to both improve your language skills and gain new insights into French life and culture. Indeed, each semester many students cite time spent with their host family as one of the highlights of their study abroad experience. World Ready. Career Ready. Link There are all types of exciting internship opportunities waiting for you in Strasbourg. Here’s your chance to explore career options and develop professional skills, all while earning academic credit and perfecting your French. Having an international experience will show future employers that you are capable of working in a diverse and multicultural environment. Can I Afford to Study Abroad? Link Yes! We work with you to make studying abroad within reach. Your financial aid package may apply to study abroad, plus there are other assistance options, including scholarships, grants and awards. Connect with Syracuse Abroad through general advising sessions or program appointments. Drop-in or schedule a virtual or in-person advising session at SyracuseAbroad@Bird Monday-Friday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Or, schedule an appointment to meet with a Syracuse Abroad program advisor. View all advising options View all advising options. Featured Stories Assisting Refugees as an Intern in Strasbourg, France While studying abroad in Strasboug, France for the summer, Michelle Jituboh ’17 completed an internship with the Reception and Orientation Center for Migrants. Related Pages Why Syracuse Abroad? Students from all over the world choose Syracuse Abroad for its academic excellence, unique programming and dedicated faculty and staff. Syracuse Abroad offers flexible study options and generous financial aid so you can build the knowledge and skills that will help you succeed anywhere. Requirements and Deadlines Ready to apply? Learn more about requirements, deadlines and what you need to begin your application. Information for Accepted Students Have you already been accepted into a study abroad program? Learn what steps you need to take next! Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy