Kansas State University search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »Human Capital Services »Careers Human Capital Services Home Benefits Benefits Overview Insurance Programs Retirement Financial Leave and Holidays Workers Compensation See all of Benefits Careers Career Opportunities About K-State Visit K-State Employee Relations Accessibility Disciplinary Actions Dispute Resolution Employee Recognition Performance Management Process Resources See all of Employee Relations Learn & Develop Courses Professional Development See all of Learn & Develop Time & Comp. HRIS Compensation & Organizational Effectiveness Payroll Time Reporting & FLSA Resources See all of Time & Comp. Tools & Resources HCS Liaisons Managers & Supervisors Hiring Toolkit Competency Library Quick Links K-State eID/password required for these resources About K-State Apply Now Visit K-State Human Capital Services Kansas State University 103 Edwards Hall 1810 Kerr Drive Manhattan, KS 66506-4801 Directions to HCS 785-532-6277 785-532-6095 fax Find a future in purple Kansas State University employees take pride in making a difference in nearly 21,000 lives at the nation's first operational land-grant university. In fact, the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities recently designated K-State as an Innovation and Economic Prosperity University. As the Princeton Review's No. 3 university in the nation for quality of life, K-State also takes pride in its employees. K-State was also ranked No. 3 in Forbes - America's Best Employers by State. Beyond offering an unmatched sense of community and inclusiveness, K-State provides employees with a variety of benefits, including health care, retirement options, discounted event tickets and much more. Of course, our employees also are members of the Manhattan community, Livability.com's #16 place to live in the nation, featuring eclectic restaurants, a treasure trove of shopping and, of course, plenty of purple. Search career opportunities Don't Make the World Wait. Benefits at Kansas State University Benefits come in all shapes and sizes, and at Kansas State University, we recognize that one size does not fit all. That's why we offer something for everyone. Whether you're looking for stellar health care, tuition assistance or valuable retirement plans, the K-State family has you covered. We value our employees and their countless contributions, so we do our part to ensure they and their families feel right at home. Health insurance In partnership with the State of Kansas, we offer health insurance benefits for you and your family's needs. You are able to select from a variety of medical insurance plans, including prescription, dental and vision. Learn more. Retirement plans Kansas State University offers two mandatory retirement plans to assist you in preparing you for your future. Employees may also contribute to a variety of voluntary retirement plans to supplement their retirement savings. Time off We recognize that your life is made up of many pieces. You value your time with friends and family, wellness, spirituality, relaxation and, of course, your work life. Kansas State University seeks to support your work life balance by providing a rich leave program. Full-time employees earn eight hours of vacation leave every pay period. Learn more. Tuition assistance Kansas State University values continuing education for its employees. The University provides a tuition assistance program to all full-time, benefits-eligible employees to assist with their education goals. A spouse and dependent grant is also available for eligible employees. Compensation at Kansas State University At K-State, we are committed to providing a fair and competitive compensation program that will attract, retain and reward high-performing employees at all levels. Base salary for new employees is determined based on market pay for the position, candidate experience and education, internal equity and departmental funding. Want to learn more? Check out our compensation philosophy and click below for an in-depth explanation of how salary offers are made. Learn more Kansas State University is committed to fair and competitive pay. With that in mind, we include both the pay grade and anticipated hiring range for each job listing. The full salary range represents the minimum and maximum for the position. We include this information to provide insight into what is possible as you progress within your role at K-State. The anticipated hiring range is a more specific and realistic estimate of the hiring range offered to the final candidate. We include this in an effort to be transparent about what candidates can reasonably expect. Diversity & Inclusion Kansas State University’s mission is to provide an inclusive, supportive community that values diversity in people and ideas. Since 1863, as the nation’s first operational land-grant university, K-State has maintained a commitment to diversity and inclusion, while being steadfast in our pledge to access, opportunity and success for all Wildcats. To learn more about K-State’s commitment to diversity and inclusion, please visit: https://www.k-state.edu/diversity-inclusion/. Campus Safety The Annual Security Report (Clery Report) is intended to inform the public of information about crime on and around campus, efforts to improve campus safety, and university policies. Learn more Its purpose is to provide individuals with information that will help them make informed decisions relating to their own safety and the safety of others. Anyone, including prospective students and employees, may obtain a paper copy by contacting the Clery Act Federal Compliance Coordinator at ksuclery@k-state.edu. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Policy and Privacy Notice and Request for Consent for Individuals in the European Union Effective May 25, 2018, the European Union (“EU”) General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) places additional obligations on organizations that control or process personally identifiable information about persons in the European Union. Learn more This Privacy Statement and Request for Consent only addresses processing of information collected directly from prospective employees through the Careers website. It describes the practices of how the Division of Human Capital Services of Kansas State University collects, uses, and maintains (hereinafter “processes”) personal information from visitors who submit information to the Kansas State University’s Careers website (https://k-state.edu/hcs/careers/) as part of applying for employment with Kansas State University. Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 12/7/21