Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Information Technology Services About umTech Security Governance Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Security Report a Security Incident Alerts and Warnings Current AlertsPhishingPersonal Information SecurityFTC Phone Call Scams SiteFBI Internet Fraud Site Policies and Guidelines Duo Account Security Initiatives Security Awareness Training Access Termination Web Security Guidelines Best Practices Take Action Security Information Need Help with Technology? Service Catalog Contact Us Home Information Technology Services Security Security Awareness Training Security Awareness Training Access Security Awareness Training Note: New employees are enrolled weekly and will receive an email when training is available. If your hire date was more than a week ago and you cannot access training, please contact securitytraining@memphis.edu. Be sure to click the "Complete Training" button on the final screen of the training module to receive credit for completion. Did you know that around 90% of all data breaches involve some sort of human error? Hackers know that it requires a lot of technical skill to get past a firewall into a server when it's so much easier to just trick someone into giving up a password or clicking on a malicious link in an email. You may be surprised to learn that employees are considered the weakest link in any organization's security defense. Therefore, all UofM employees and emeritus faculty with active accounts are required to complete Security Awareness Training annually. This training gives users the tools and skills necessary to recognize common attack methods help protect our systems and data. Additionally, these principles can be applied to your personal digital life to help keep your personal data safe. Training is provided by KnowBe4 and takes approximately 30 minutes to complete. Required trainees should receive email notifications and reminders during the training period, as well as a confirmation email upon completion. If you have received a notification email, training is required. If you have any questions about training or issues accessing KnowBe4, contact securitytraining@memphis.edu. Face-to-Face Training Sessions IT Security also offers face-to-face security awareness sessions on a variety of topics to any UofM group by request. We can also do a virtual session by Zoom. At the session, we will review relevant UofM policies and answer any questions you may have. Contact securitytraining@memphis.edu to request a session and let us know what topics you're interested in. Our mission is to help you work more securely! Questions? Email securitytraining@memphis.edu. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/7/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.