Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department About UHPD Police Department About UHPD History Become a UHPD Police Officer Campus Security Authority FAQ APPLY ONLINE Records and Reports Safety & Security Community Services Policies & Training Contact UHPD Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu About UHPD The University of Houston Police Department (UHPD) is the primary police authority for the University of Houston. The police officers of UHPD are peace officers of the State of Texas whose primary jurisdiction is any county in which the University of Houston owns, leases, rents, or controls property. Their law enforcement authority is derived from the Texas Education Code Sec. 51.203 which allows the University of Houston System Board of Regents to employ and commission peace officers, as well as the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure art. 2.12 which identifies who are peace officers in the State of Texas. UHPD also employs civilian security officers to supplement the police presence, helping to increase the visibility of the department, be more accessible to the community, and provide posted security in critical locations. UHPD also has police and security personnel stationed at other University of Houston System locations that do not have an independant police department, namely, University of Houton Victoria, University of Houston at Sugar Land, and University of Houton at Katy. UHPD's headquarters are at 4051 Wheeler Street at the southwest corner of the University of Houston. Our Chief of Police is Ceaser Moore, Jr., who is also the Assistant Vice Chancellor of Police Operations for the University of Houston System. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies