COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Frequently Asked Questions: Sexual Assault Prevention Training for Students Section Menu OIEC Home Contact OIEC Pregnancy Policies and Discrimination WSU Discrimination Policies OIEC Training Title IX Empowerment Summit Affirmative Action CARE Team Submit a Report CSA Training Packet Title IX Policy Review Title IX Policy Statement Resources and Additional Reporting Options Rights of the Parties in Sexual Harassment Cases If You Have Experienced Sexual Assault 2021 Title IX Review and Survey Archived Policies Frequently Asked Questions: Sexual Assault Prevention Training for Students OIEC Annual Reports Frequently Asked Questions How long does the training take? Each user’s experience varies. The length of the module depends on whether you are a new student, returning student, or graduate student this academic year. Pursuant to Federal Guidance and University mandate, all students are required to complete a training module featuring sexual assault prevention content that will take approximately 1 hour to complete. What if I already took an online sexual assault prevention training last year? The University is now requiring training for all students once per academic year. All returning degree seeking students will be assigned to complete the Title IX Training Sexual Assault Prevention training upon their return and will be assigned a refresher course once per academic year. How can I verify whether I have satisfied my annual training requirement? Students who have completed the online training requirement can download and save a certificate of completion for their records. Which students at WSU must complete the training? All current degree seeking students, including new students, transfer students, international students, graduating seniors, returning students, and graduate students must complete the online training on or before October 27, 2021. Extensions will be granted in extraordinary or emergency circumstances. These requests are reviewed on a case-by-case basis and the student must provide appropriate documentation upon request. What will happen if I do not complete my Title IX training by the assigned deadline? Any enrolled degree seeking student who does not complete the Title IX training on or before October 24, 2021 will have a hold placed on their account that will prevent them from registering for Spring Semester courses until they complete the training. All registration holds are released within 24 hours of completion. A registration hold was placed on my account because I did not complete my training. How can I get it removed? The only way to have the registration hold removed for failure to complete the online training is to complete the module assigned to you. IMPORTANT: WSU receives data regarding student completion of training requirements through EVERFI, in a secured, automated manner. Therefore, if you have a registration hold because you missed the October 27, 2021 deadline, the Office of Institutional Equity and Compliance (“OIEC”) cannot directly remove the hold. The University must receive authentication from the vendor, and OIEC will not be able to expedite the process for you. WSU records will be updated every night (every 24 hours) to reflect which students have satisfied the training requirement. It is your responsibility to complete the training in a timely manner to prevent a registration hold. I don’t have time to complete the module in one sitting. How do I log back into the training after I’ve initially registered/signed in? You can complete the training in multiple sessions. Your progress will be saved in each session you are logged in, and you can pick up where you left off in the training. Login to complete your training What if the content is particularly upsetting to me or I have concerns about completing this program due to past life experiences? This online training contains some sensitive material involving sexual violence prevention. If you need support while completing the training, please refer to our Information and Resources page for a list of both confidential and non-confidential resources, on and off campus. If you are a survivor of sexual violence or have concerns about the training, please contact the Title IX office at OIEC@Wichita.edu to discuss your options. Why is participation in this training program mandatory? Wichita State University is committed to providing a workplace and education environment, as well as other benefits, programs, and activities free from discrimination, harassment, and retaliation, and to ensure compliance with federal law and regulations. In April 2021, the Student Government Association passed a Resolution supporting mandatory Title IX training for all students. Why do I keep getting emails from EVERFI? EVERFI is the vendor for this training and will automatically send reminder emails until you complete your training module. I completed the training, and now realize I want to report an incident of sexual assault at WSU and/or involving a WSU student or employee. What should I do? Please contact the Title IX Coordinator at oiec@wichita.edu, or you may submit a report online. Anyone can report incidents that occur on or off-campus. Also, you can report an incident regardless of how long ago it may have occurred, and even if the incident did not involve you personally. OIEC responds to every report it receives. Training Information 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©