COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Shocker Family Programs Section Menu Connect with us Family Weekend Suicide prevention Resources Newsletters Shocker Family Table Talk Family Ambassadors One Shocker Family is committed to being here for you and your student throughout your college journey. At Wichita State, we want parents and family to feel engaged and connected. RSVP for Orientation Shocker Family Newsletter Submit a Concern Keeping Connected Shocker Family Programs Starting a college career can be overwhelming, but it doesn't have to be. Wichita State University offers a number of resources to help students make a successful transition to life as a Shocker. We are here to help your student transition academically and socially to campus by connecting them with the people, services, and support they need to get them to graduation and beyond. We are here to encourage your student's well-being and academic success while at Wichita State. If you ever need to reach us, please call 316-978-3149 or email shocker.family@wichita.edu. This August... Getting Started It’s normal for both families and students to feel a combination of excitement and apprehension about starting college. Whether students grew up just a few blocks from the university or are traveling many miles, transitioning to a new environment and new routines is the name of the game this month. Everyone may feel a bit disoriented for a while; just remember to give yourself some time to adjust. Actively seeking out support and getting involved in new activities will help both families and students. How Can Families Help? Reassure your student that they have a place in the family and in your home regardless of the changes. Having a stable home base helps students adjust to college. Encourage your student to get involved. Students who get connected with campus life tend to do better academically, learn to manage their time and have an easier adjustment. Go to wichita.edu/seal for more information on student involvement opportunities. If your student is living in the residence halls, suggest they get to know their Resident Assistant (RA) and neighbors. If your student is living at home, let them know you’re happy to hear they stayed on campus to study or spend time with friends. It can feel strange for families to hear about new people and routines in students’ lives. Remind yourself that developing new support networks helps students to be successful. Conversation Starters How were your first few days of classes? What kinds of activities have you found to get involved in? Read more in this month's newsletter Resources New Families Student Success Emergencies Staying Connected Looking for Something? Move In Day myWSU Course Schedule Academic Advising Writing Center Parking Reporting a Crisis Situation Shocker Alert Family Weekend Suicide Prevention Resources 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©