Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Departments Sociomedical Sciences Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Sociomedical Sciences (SMS) Sociomedical Sciences is dedicated to understanding and addressing the social, political, historical, cultural, psychological, and economic forces that influence health outcomes. edit_murrman_student_practpanel_03_05_20.jpg Degree Programs Our degree programs combine interdisciplinary social sciences and research methods within historical, political, and cultural contexts to better inform public health. Interested in learning more about the sociomedical sciences at Columbia Mailman School of Public Health? Read More pic_6_girls_puberty_book_in_laos.jpg Research Our research spans a broad variety of topics from puberty and adolescence to the intersections of health, housing, and equity in hopes of addressing public health knowledge gaps and informing new policy. Read More students2_caban_lecture_03_04_20_flipped.jpg Our Students Our students bring their diverse and rich backgrounds to build upon and strengthen their public health toolkits. Read More ls-1500x6321.jpg COVID-19 Lockdown Linked to Uptick in Tobacco Use Pandemic-related anxiety, boredom, and irregular routines were cited as major drivers of increased nicotine and tobacco use during the initial COVID-19 shutdown, according to research released by Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. Read More Who We Are Programs Research News and Events Faculty Contact Us Message from the Chair "The social sciences are essential to develop strategies and identify research and educational priorities to address health inequities and assess impact in the field of public health," says Kathleen Sikkema, PhD. Read the full message here. Why SMS? Learn how the past informs the SMS department's current and future impactful research as we reflect on 50 years of Sociomedical Sciences at Columbia. Research Our research in sociomedical sciences is expansive on both the local and global scale, spanning initiatives from community health promotion to public health ethics. Students Our talented students draw on their diverse backgrounds when developing the expertise needed to excel in the rapidly evolving social health field. Faculty Meet our esteemed faculty, who represent a wide range of expertise throughout the public health field. Spotlight Menstrual Equity and the Pandemic: It's Time to Take the Gendered Experience Into Account. Read the full article here. Close Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers