Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Music In Focus Music Mental Health Climate Solutions Celebrating the Class of ’22 Music Whether through dance, song, instruments, or voice, music provides us with a universal language. Experts from the Harvard community explore how music aids in learning, improves well-being, and fosters social change. Lifting our voices From the sounds of John Legend and Beyonce to gospel and traditional African folk music, everything the Kuumba Singers of Harvard College sing is meant to promote and uplift Black spirituality and creativity on Harvard’s campus and beyond. Almost Home with Harvard’s Kuumba Singers The benefits of music The benefits of practicing, listening, and making music are well-documented. Using music in early childhood classrooms Good morning songs aren’t just fun—they can teach about others. Music lessons The key to developing critical, creative thinkers may be found inside the music classroom. Harnessing the therapeutic potential of music Music’s therapeutic potential has been evident since the earliest days of humankind. Why is music good for the brain? Can music really affect your well-being, learning, and even happiness? The arts and medicine Harvard Medical School students apply lessons from the arts to medicine. Voices at Harvard Finding rhythm in reverence Divinity School alum Aric Flemming discusses how music is an extension of—rather than a diversion from—his ministerial outreach. Read more about how Aric is finding musical ways to preach Overture of an opera life Benjamin Perry Wenzelberg’s senior thesis will be a commissioned opera for Lowell House Opera, based on an epic work of literature: James Joyce’s “Ulysses.” Read about Benjamin’s final project Changing course Julia Riew was on the pre-med track, while also exploring her long-held love of musical theater. Two years after starting at Harvard College, she realized she was more drawn to the stage. Read about Julia’s journey from pre-med to writing musicals Passing the torch of representation Young Black artist-animator Uzo Ngwu helps breathe life into a film that highlights trailblazing Harvard music historian Eileen Southern. Learn more about the short film A different kind of thesis In 2019, Luke Martinez created the Department of Music’s first pop music creative thesis. Read more about Luke’s work The rhythmatist Rajna Swaminathan has been described as “a groundbreaking 21st-century composer-performer and thinker.” Read more about Rajna’s search for the beats that bring worlds together The power of performance Theater, Dance, & Media, a Harvard College concentration, recently celebrated six years of learning and performance. Celebrating Theater, Dance & Media The sounds of a movement What role has music played in the pursuit of justice, equity, and our understanding of social justice? Protesting police violence, a playlist According to Marcyliena Morgan, the founding executive director of the Harvard Archive, we should think of hiphop as a historical record of the nation’s racial violence and injustice. Explore hiphop’s history of exposing police brutality Learn about Southern's career Eileen Southern and the music of Black Americans Dive into the life and work of Eileen Southern, the first Black woman tenured at Harvard. View her contributions to the history of Black music It’s never art for art’s sake Renowned cellist Yo-Yo Ma discusses the ways in which “citizen musicians” can help build a more just and free society as an extension of their work as artists. Read about music as a force for social justice Hiphop pedagogy in action The role of hiphop in education Students at the Graduate School of Education explore hiphop’s long history of being a tool of civic expression, and how it should be embraced in education. A universal language Music’s ability to create connections across communities, cultures, and even cosmos is well-documented. Playing our song Harvard’s online Music Lab is a citizen-science project aimed at exploring how the human mind understands music, and why music is a virtually ubiquitous feature of human societies. Read more about the Music Lab Music everywhere A comprehensive study explains that music is universal and that some songs sound "right" in different social contexts, all over the world. Read about the study's findings Music of the cosmos In a project aimed at making images of space more accessible, scientists and sound engineers turned images of the cosmos into music. Enjoy the video Songs in the key of humanity Poet and Harvard Professor Henry Wadsworth Longfellow famously said, “Music is the universal language of mankind.” A new Harvard study suggests he may have been right. Read more from The Harvard Gazette Earth’s most excellent mixtape Alexander Rehding, a professor of music, discusses NASA’s Golden Record, which is “effectively a mixtape for extraterrestrial civilizations.” Read about this out-of-this-world project The nature of sounds Composer David Rothenberg takes the familiar sounds of birds singing, insects chirping, ponds bubbling, and combines them with music, creating a melodious and distinctly unique medley. Listen to the sounds of nature Pause for Art When the pandemic began, Harvard students, faculty, and alumni looked to music and art to create connections and find comfort. Enjoy the playlist Dancing on the ceiling—of the world Harvard student Nosher Ali Khan, a team of mountaineers, and artists set the Guinness world record for Highest Altitude Dance Party on Land at Minglik Sar, Pakistan. Read more about the expedition The Loeb Music Library Open to the general public, Harvard’s Loeb Music Library gives visitors the opportunity to embrace musical performance and research from around the world. Explore the library’s many resources and collections Compose your musical journey Join the Harvard community and learn more about music, dance, song, and more. See more courses Monteverdi’s L’Orfeo and the Birth of Opera Free Course Self-paced Available now Stravinsky’s Rite of Spring: Modernism, Ballet, and Riots Free Course Self-paced Available now 18th-Century Opera: Handel & Mozart Free Course Self-paced Available now Beethoven's 9th Symphony and the 19th Century Orchestra Free Course Self-paced Available now Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00