Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Public and Nonprofit Administration Undergraduate Graduate People Giving IPNL Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About the MPA About the MPA Admissions Careers Curriculum Internships FAQs Master of Nonprofit Management (MNM) Take Action Master of Public Administration Master of Nonprofit Management Graduate Certificates Explore SUAPP Follow Us Online Facebook Home PADM MPA Frequently Asked Questions of the MPA Frequently Asked Questions How many students are in the MPA Program? As of Fall 2020, there were 43 students actively enrolled in the program. How many faculty teach in the program? The MPA Program has six core faculty who devote the majority of their time to the MPA Program. Some of our courses are also taught by distinguished practitioners in the community. How many hours is the MPA Program? How long does it take? The MPA degree requires 39 credit hours (13 classes). The program is designed to be flexible, but most students are able to finish within 2-3 years. We utilize two and three year course plans to keep students on track. What are the recent graduation rates for MPA students? The total number of students initially enrolled in the 2014-2015 cohort was 23. This cohort's graduation rates are as follows: Cohort Graduated within 2 Years Graduated within 3 Years Graduated in 4 or more years Total Graduation Rate 2014-2015 65% 13% 13% 91% Do I have to go full time? No. Our program is flexible. We have students going full-time (3 courses per semester) and others that take only 2 or 3 classes per year. Your faculty adviser will work with you to tailor a schedule suited to your unique needs. I work during the day, so how am I supposed to take classes? Our program is built for the working student. All of our classes are offered at night (usually one night per week for each class) and/or online. I don't have any work experience yet, is the MPA degree right for me? Yes! We have a mix of pre-career students and seasoned professionals in the program. Through our internship program, pre-career students gain exposure to the workplace in some well-known organizations. The program's connections to local nonprofits and government agencies offer pre-career students a pathway into their careers. Can I do the entire MPA at the University of Memphis online? No. About 25 percent of our classes are offered periodically in online format, but most classes are still offered in a traditional "on the ground" format. Where are your graduates working? The MPA Program has a long track record of placing students successfully. To learn more about what our graduates are doing and other career development resources, go to our Career Development page. How much does it cost? The most up to date information on tuition and fees is available here using the tuition estimator tool. Is financial aid available? Yes. Please refer to the University of Memphis Office of Financial Aid for information. Are graduate assistantships available? Yes. Each year, the department has a limited number of graduate assistantships that are awarded on a competitive basis. Departmental assistantships are only open to students who have been accepted into the MPA Program. Assistantships offer a stipend, full tuition and a health plan. If you are interested in applying for an assistantship, please contact Becky Horowitz at 678-3360, or by email. The School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy also offers a competitive Housing and Community Development Fellowship, which has been awarded to several MPA students. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/26/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.