Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Aggie Wellness Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search Aggie WellnessOpen main menu Close Open search Mental Health Physical Health Fitness & Recreation Relationship Wellness Tools Help Others APA Internship & Training Suicide Prevention In Crisis? Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Aggies Are Whole At Utah State University, students are given the space, freedom, and resources to improve their overall health while earning a degree. By working on all aspects of health, Aggies graduate career-ready and with the tools and skills necessary to be a force for good in the world. I want to… Improve My Mental Health USU’s Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) embraces a holistic approach to student development by removing psychological, emotional, and behavioral barriers to learning and success. Mental Health Support and Nourish My Body USU offers health, wellness, and nutrition services that cover basic medical care and trainings to develop personal wellness. Physical Health Maintain My Physical Activity Physical activity is a key component in living a whole lifestyle. USU has a variety of resources to find your fit. Fitness & Recreation Create Healthy Relationships Everyone enters relationships with different ideas and perspectives. USU can help you learn how to create healthy relationships that will support your well-being. Relationship Wellness Help Others in Distress When a friend comes to you in distress, you have the opportunity to empathize and point them in the right direction. USU has resources for you and your friend in distress. Help Others in Distress Educate Myself and Access Resources Gain skills and tools to help yourself and others. USU has a network of resources and departments to help with prevention and training efforts on campus. Resources Report a Student of Concern Are you worried about someone who might be struggling? Anonymously let us know with this form. Eight Dimensions of Wellness at USU USU offers support, assistance, education, and prevention resources within the eight dimensions of wellness. Familiarize yourself with USU student resources so you can take advantage of the help anytime you want it or need it. The resources to the below are found within different USU departments and offices and help students increase their wellbeing. The Eight Dimensions of Wellness Emotional By understanding and accepting your emotions, you’re able to more effectively manage stress, change and challenges for a healthier life. Learn more about some of the options available to you on-campus and off. Counseling & Psychological Services Sexual Assault & Antiviolence Financial One of the most common stressors for college students is finances. Learn more about how to pay for college, and other ways to alleviate financial stress while going to school, so you can focus on your education and other needs. Student Financial Support Financial Aid Office Scholarship Office Student Money Management Center SNAC Pantry Social Making connections and lifelong friendships is one of the best parts of college. Students who have friends and support systems are more likely to do better emotionally and academically. Learn more about how to make connections. Student Involvement & Leadership Center Residence Life Center for Community Engagement Fraternity & Sorority Life Office of Global Engagement Spiritual Many students find comfort and community through spirituality. It may look different to every student and doesn’t have to be religious. Learn more about how to serve the community and meet with others. Interfaith Student Association Occupational When you’re able to take pride in your work, whether a career or schoolwork, you’re often more motivated and successful. Learn more about how to balance work with play and choosing a career you’re passionate about. Career Services Veterans Resource Office Physical Physical wellbeing is more than just working out occasionally — though we agree that’s a great form of stress relief! Learn more about how to care for your physical body through medical care and recreational activities. Campus Recreation Student Health Services Disability Resource Center Campus Police Intellectual By attending USU, you’ve already taken the first step. By exposing yourself to different ideologies and cultures, you learn more about yourself and others. Make the most of your experience through our study strategies. Academic Success Programs Advising Environmental By understanding your impact on your surroundings, you can develop a stewardship for the land and your community. Learn more about how to increase your wellbeing and that of the environment while living more sustainably. Center for Community Engagement Contact CAPS CAPS Youtube CAPS Instagram Counseling and Psychological Services (435) 797-1012 TSC 306 850 E 1200 N Logan, UT 84322 Contact SHWC SHWC Facebook SHWC Instagram SHWC Twitter Student Health and Wellness Center (435) 797-1660 Where we are 9100 Old Main Hill Logan, UT 84322 RESOURCES Training and Resources CAPS Assessment Healthy Minds Survey (PDF) JED Campus Help Others News Assessment Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page