Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Political Science Undergraduate Graduate BA/MA JD/MA Advising Internships People News & Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact People Bios Awards and Kudos Take Action Alumni and Friends Make a Gift to Political Science Registered Student Organizations / Clubs Contact Follow Us Online Facebook Home Political Science People Kris-Stella Trump Kris-Stella Trump Assistant Professor, Department of Political Science Phone 901.678.2395 Email ktrump@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2983 Office Clement Hall 421 Office Hours Call or Email for Appointment Link to website Link to CV About Kris-Stella Trump: Dr. Trump joined the Political Science department in Fall 2019. She specializes in political behavior and political psychology, with a particular focus on attitudes toward income inequality, redistribution, and perceptions of deservingness. Her research has been published in journals including the Journal of Politics, The British Journal of Political Science, and Perspectives on Politics. Dr. Trump received her Ph.D. from Harvard University in 2013; immediately prior to joining the University of Memphis she worked as Program Director of the "Anxieties of Democracy" and "Media & Democracy" programs at the Social Science Research Council. Research Interests: Political behavior; Political Psychology; Income Inequality; Perceptions of deservingness Teaching Interests: American Politics, Political Behavior, Political Psychology, Public Policy Education: Ph.D., Government, Harvard University, 2013; MPhil, European Politics, University of Oxford, 2007; BA, Economics and Social and Political Sciences, University of Cambridge, 2005 Publications: Trump, Kris-Stella and Ariel White. 2018. "Does Inequality Beget Inequality? Experimental Tests of the Prediction That Inequality Increases System Justification Motivation" Journal of Experimental Political Science 5(3), 206-216. Trump, Kris-Stella. 2018. "Income Inequality Influences Perceptions of Legitimate Income Differences" British Journal of Political Science 48(4), 929-952. Williamson, Vanessa, Kris-Stella Trump and Katherine Levine Einstein. 2018. "Black Lives Matter: Evidence that Police-Caused Deaths Predict Protest Activity" Perspectives on Politics 16(2):400-415. White, Ariel and Kris-Stella Trump. 2018. "The Promises and Pitfalls of 311 Data" Urban Affairs Review 54(4):794-823. Katherine Levine Einstein, Kris-Stella Trump and Vanessa Williamson. 2016. "The Polarizing Effect of the Stimulus: Partisanship and Voter Responsiveness to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act" Presidential Studies Quarterly 46(2):264-283. Charlotte Cavaillé and Kris-Stella Trump. 2015. "The Two Facets of Social Policy Preferences." The Journal of Politics 77(1):146-160. Experience: Program Director at the Social Science Research Council (2017-19); Research Specialist at the Office of Evaluation Sciences (2016-17); Research Associate at IMPAQ International (2015-16); College Fellow at Harvard University (2013-15). Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/12/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.