Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About SONHS Academics Admission Faculty & Staff Research LIfe at SONHS About SONHS Academics Admission Faculty & Staff Research LIfe at SONHS Search About SONHS Welcome from the Dean Mission and Vision SONHS At-A-Glance Strategic Plan School History SONHS Leadership Community / Clinical Partners M Christine Schwartz Center for Nursing and Health Studies Anatomy & Physiology Laboratory S.H.A.R.E.™: Simulation Hospital Advancing Research & Education Support SONHS SONHS News Contact Us Visiting Committee Members About SONHS Academics Admission Faculty & Staff Research LIfe at SONHS About SONHS Welcome from the Dean Mission and Vision SONHS At-A-Glance Strategic Plan School History SONHS Leadership Community / Clinical Partners M Christine Schwartz Center for Nursing and Health Studies Anatomy & Physiology Laboratory S.H.A.R.E.™: Simulation Hospital Advancing Research & Education Support SONHS SONHS News Contact Us Visiting Committee Members Academics Admissions and Student Services Faculty and Staff Research Life at SONHS Home About SONHS AAA About SONHS About SONHS Welcome from the Dean Mission and Vision SONHS At-A-Glance Strategic Plan School History SONHS Leadership Community / Clinical Partners M Christine Schwartz Center for Nursing and Health Studies Anatomy & Physiology Laboratory S.H.A.R.E.™: Simulation Hospital Advancing Research & Education Support SONHS SONHS News Contact Us Visiting Committee Members Academics Admissions and Student Services Faculty and Staff Research Life at SONHS LEARN. INNOVATE. TRANSFORM. Established in 1948 as South Florida’s first collegiate nursing program, the University of Miami School of Nursing and Health Studies (SONHS) offers world-class accredited programs in nursing, the health sciences, and public health. Visit our Academics web pages to learn more about our nationally ranked degree programs from the undergraduate to doctoral levels. Our programs are continuously updated to meet evolving standards of national and global health systems. SONHS students gain access to our well-established network of over 200 clinical, nonprofit, and global partner sites. Our faculty are leading scholars, scientists, and clinicians with advanced degrees in nursing, public health, pharmacology, psychology, medicine, and nutrition. They are also premier educators dedicated to innovating pedagogical strategies and supporting students throughout the learning process. Students receive unparalleled hands-on instruction in our five-story, 41,000-square-foot Simulation Hospital Advancing Research and Education (S.H.A.R.E.™), a global destination for simulation-based education, research, and life science technology and innovation. All of this top-notch preparation is evidenced by near-perfect first-time pass rates on the NCLEX-RN (state nursing licensure) and nurse practitioner certification exams, and 100% nurse anesthesia certification exam pass rates. U.S. News & World Report consistently ranks our MSN and DNP programs among the top tier for Best Graduate Nursing Programs, and our health studies grads have an excellent record of acceptance for advanced degree programs in public health, medicine, physical therapy, and other health professions. In addition, stackable credentialing, flexible part-time and hybrid online programs, and career enhancement opportunities underscore a strong commitment to education for life. The SONHS scientific portfolio consistently ranks in the top tier of NIH funding for nursing schools, with students encouraged to participate in faculty research and scholarship. As a PAHO/WHO Collaborating Centre situated at the Gateway to the Americas, SONHS also offers a range of innovative international training opportunities focused on global health and patient safety. Active school chapters of national service organizations and honor societies, such as Sigma Theta Tau International, enable students to explore new interests and develop leadership skills. Accreditation: SONHS programs are accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Education Programs, and Society for Simulation in Healthcare (Teaching/Education). Our public health degree is one of just a handful of standalone baccalaureate programs nationwide accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health. Email SONHS@miami.edu or call 305-284-3666 for more information. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Nursing and Health Studies P.O. Box 248153 Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3666 305-284-3666 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices