Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Faculty History of CENFAD Lecture Series Strategic Visions Magazine Funding Resources Temple University College of Liberal Arts Labs, Centers and Institutes News Events Sites Center for Sustainable Communities Center for Vietnamese Philosophy, Culture and Society Center for the Humanities at Temple Center for the Study of Force and Diplomacy Feinstein Center for American Jewish History Institute for Survey Research Public Policy Lab Temple University Brain Research & Imaging Center / Center for the Study of Force and Diplomacy Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Center for the Study of Force and Diplomacy Fosters interdisciplinary faculty and student research on the historic and contemporary use of force and diplomacy. /labs-centers-and-institutes/center-study-force-and-diplomacy/strategic-visions-… Strategic Visions Check out the newest edition of Strategic Visions, the biannual newsletter of CENFAD to find out what we have coming up in CENFAD in fall 2021! /labs-centers-and-institutes/center-study-force-and-diplomacy/strategic-visions-… Learn More /labs-centers-and-institutes/center-study-force-and-diplomacy/lecture-series CENFAD Lecture Series Attend a CENFAD lecture to learn more about the study of force and diplomacy from government officials and award-winning scholars. Learn More /labs-centers-and-institutes/center-study-force-and-diplomacy/funding Funding The Center for the Study of Force and Diplomacy offers prizes, fellowships and travel funds to make cutting-edge research possible. Learn More The Center for the Study of Force and Diplomacy (CENFAD) fosters interdisciplinary faculty and student research on the historic and contemporary use of force and diplomacy in a global context. The center sponsors an ongoing lecture series and occasional workshops and colloquia. Each year, it also gives fellowships, prizes and conference funding to recognize and support undergraduate and graduate research in military, diplomatic and international history. Alan McPherson, director of CENFAD, reports to the dean of the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. Housed within Temple University’s History Department, CENFAD was founded in 1993 by Richard Immerman, Russell Weigley and David Rosenberg. CENFAD Director and Thomas J. Freaney Jr. Professor of History- Alan McPherson Thomas J. Davis Fellow- Casey VanSise /center-study-force-and-diplomacy-news Center News We are daring, ambitious, creative thinkers. Simultaneously civic-minded and globally conscious, our students and faculty are engaged in the community and care about our world. Center News https://events.temple.edu/department/center-for-the-study-of-force-and-diplomacy Center Events From lectures to film screenings to networking opportunities with some of the region's biggest employers, events at the College of Liberal Arts are designed to support your life's work. Learn More Go back to ResearchMore in Center for the Study of Force and Diplomacy Faculty History of CENFAD Lecture Series Strategic Visions Magazine Funding Resources Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University College of Liberal Arts Center for the Study of Force and Diplomacy 918 Gladfelter Hall 1115 Polett WalkPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7466 alan.mcpherson@temple.edu Center for the Study of Force and Diplomacy Facebook Center for the Study of Force and Diplomacy Twitter Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.