Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today U.S. Air Force Academy Cadet Clubs Part of balancing the demands of life at the U.S. Air Force Academy is finding time for hobbies and interests. About 75% of cadets are involved in at least one of the Academy’s 90+ active clubs. Clubs are a great opportunity for cadets to enhance their professional development by taking on additional leadership roles, opportunities to manage personnel and financial resources, and learn administrative and logistics skills. The participation in club programs can take cadets on a journey they never expected before. Many cadets become involved with clubs to find and foster new friendships while pursuing an area of interest. Clubs are run by cadets, for cadets, with oversight from an Air Force officer, senior enlisted member, or civilian on staff at the Academy. Leaders organize meetings, practices, competitions, and serve as role models for club participants. Featured Clubs Blue Horizon Broadcast Club Drum & Bugle Corps Falconry Forensics Team Honor Guard In the Stairwell Mock Trial Wings of Blue ACADEMIC AND PROFESSIONAL CLUBS A4I/Innovation: The team focuses on helping solve tricky and, perhaps, long running technical problems affecting existing processes, products, or services. Air Combat: Inspires future combat aviators through instruction and training in the principles of dogfighting using networked virtual reality simulators. Astronomy/Physics: Provides opportunities to immerse in science related topics through science fairs, observatory tours and planetarium shows. Blue Horizon (Rocketry Club): provides experience, engineering, and launch training for cadets who will ultimately be contributors and leaders in the Space Force. Cyber Warfare: Inspires cyber domain knowledge and experiences critical to understanding and dominating future cyber conflicts. Forensics: Practices and competes in intercollegiate forensics, debate and multiple forms of personal speech. History: Provides opportunities to interact with historical artifacts and visit battlefields of the past. IASPS Medical Professionals Preparedness Club: Prepares cadets to be successful in applying to their military health profession. Mock Trial Team: Develops and improves oral communication, critical thinking and teamwork through law and legal process based competitions. Operation Safe (Standup USAFA): Provides awareness and service opportunities to combat child sex trafficking. Operation Safe (Unchained): Provides awareness of child sex trafficking as well as service opportunities to combat it. Peer Tutoring: Provides opportunities to tutor peers on academics with the oversight of a formal, governing body. Portuguese Club: Provides opportunities to expand understanding, knowledge and skills in the Portuguese language. Robotics (ECE/VEX): Provides opportunities to learn about robotics and participate in competitions. Steel Script (Poetry Collective): Provides opportunities for creative writing workshops, open mic performance events, and competitions in spoken word poetry. Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM): Facilitates opportunities to engage with local community and schools to promote STEM education. USAFA Green: The mission is to conduct research on growing anything, anywhere; including the Middle East, Antarctica, and space. AFFINITY AND CULTURE CLUBS Chinese Diversity Club: fosters interest in Chinese culture and allow students to engage in conversation and activities related to traditional cooking, film, crafts, and games. Hispanic Heritage: Promotes the language, culture and traditions of Spanish-speaking countries. Italian Club: Promotes opportunities for cadets to understand the culture, language, history, and significance of Italy as an ally. Korean-American Student Association (KASA): Promotes awareness of Korean culture by focusing on cultural education, alumni relations, and knowledge of United States / Republic of Korea policies and issues. Native American Heritage: Creates a supportive and educational outlet promoting Native American cultures and heritage. Pacific Rim: Supports the education on Asian and Pacific cultures by providing diverse experiences through community service, cultural activities and the expression of cultural customs. Schulte Assembly: A gender issues forum that seeks to inform and discuss the importance of diversity in the U.S. military. This forum prepares cadets to integrate and lead as Air Force officers by fostering a safe, voluntary environment of mentoring, education, and empowerment. Secular Cadet Alliance: Facilitates discussion among non-religious and questioning cadets of ideas and perspectives about the world through the lens of science, reason and naturalism. Spectrum: Provides a support network for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Questioning (LGBTQ) cadets and allies, and creates an educational experience for all cadets dedicated to the retention, development and commissioning of culturally and socially competent junior officers. Way of Life: A community that promotes awareness of and support to the Black cadet/military experience through a better understanding, exploration, and expression of Black culture; with a goal of improving the social climate. AIRMANSHIP CLUBS Drone Racing Team: Cadets build high performance race quadcopters to compete at events. Flying Team: The Flying Team competes with numerous other universities in regional and national-level, powered-flight competitions each year. Wings of Blue (Parachute Team): Each year the Air Force Parachute Team performs in front of millions of spectators at national and international parachuting demonstrations and competitions. Remotely Piloted Aircraft: Cadets incorporate Ground school and RPA flight training using actual small RPAs, includes general airmanship concepts, basic RPA piloting skills training, and an introduction to real-world RPA tactics, techniques, and procedures. Soaring Team: The Soaring Program conducts more than 20,000 training and competition glider sorties annually, focused on developing officers, leadership, and character. MISSION SUPPORT CLUBS Arnold Air Society: Fosters relationships between USAFA and ROTC to increase understanding between commissioning sources. Battlefield Airmen (Special Warfare): Supports the screening, preparation and execution for Battlefield Airmen Air Force Specialty Codes (AFSCs). Broadcast Club (KAFA): Immerses cadets in the media industry with state-of-the-art studios and soundstages that offer opportunities to act as music DJs, voice artists, actors, news anchors, and reporters. Cadet Chorale: Enhances the Academy’s image by learning, preparing and performing vocal music. Cadet Entertainment: Supports cadet MWR with fun, large-scale events and entertainment. Cadet First Responder Team: Develops cadet leaders as nationally certified First Responders supporting installation and training events coordinated with 10th Medical Group medics. Cadet Media (Yearbook): develop photography and journalism skills while recording memorable moments throughout each academic year. Combat Shooting: Teaches proficiency in small arms to qualify as an expert on Air Force rifle and pistol standards and reach instructor level status. Drum & Bugle Corps: Performs musical marching for ceremonies and athletic events including Falcon football, basketball and hockey games. Falconry: Specializes in the caring, training and showcasing of multiple falcon mascots for public performances at local and national events. German Proficiency Badge Club: Tests cadets mentally and physically to meet German Armed Forces Proficiency Badge requirements. Honor Guard: Conducts requested military details honoring fellow cadets and graduates with pride, dignity and respect. In The Stairwell: Allows male cadets to perform in an a cappella music group at local and national public events. Orchestra: Provides opportunities to perform classical music in a concert group setting and supports Academy events. Prior Enlisted Cadet Assembly (PECA): Fosters a smooth transition from enlisted to cadet life, as well as develops a positive image of the enlisted corps within the cadet wing. RATTEX: Providing professional sound and lighting technical support in Arnold Hall theatre and remote locations at the U.S. Air Force Academy. Cadets learn the technical and creative aspects in supporting plays, live events. and cinema in support of the Academy. Sabre Drill Team: Demonstrates professional military skills and discipline through the performance of intricate sabre drills. Sandhurst: Prepares and competes in the world’s premiere international academy military skills competition that inspires excellence through rigorous physical and mental challenges that reflect the tempo, uncertainty and tasks of combat operations. Yearbook Club: Develops photography and journalism skills while recording memorable moments throughout each academic year. RECREATIONAL CLUBS Aikido: Increases awareness, unarmed combat skills and coordination to face uncertain situations with confidence and agility. Archery: Provides opportunities to learn discipline through range safety and recreational or competitive archery. Aviation: Uses cadet operated flight simulators to improve understanding of military aviation and promote interest in flying as a skill and profession. Baseball: Competes in the National Club Baseball Association against collegiate clubs in Colorado and surrounding states. Bluebards: Provides opportunities to produce and perform in large theater productions. Cadet for a Day: Collaborates with Make a Wish Foundation to allow children ages 6-18 with severe illnesses to experience aspects of cadet life. Cadet Outfitters: Provides a safe environment to learn the laws and rules for local fishing, hiking, camping and hunting. Chess: Promotes the game of chess and participates in tournaments at local, national and international levels. Combatives: Provides opportunities to apply a strict military fitness regimen. Eagle’s Club: Provides opportunities to serve in scout leadership roles and execute events. Falcon’s Nest: Collaborates with Big Brothers Big Sisters to provide opportunities to mentor and coach disadvantaged youth in the community. Gaming: Provides opportunities to engage in various types of board and video games during the weekends. Golf, Men’s: Provides a competitive environment for male cadets to engage and hone skills in golf. Golf, Women’s: Provides a competitive environment for female cadets to engage and hone skills in golf. Ice Hockey, Men’s: Allows male cadets to compete in the American Collegiate Hockey Association in Division III play. Ice Hockey, Women’s: Develops non-intercollegiate female cadets in maximum physical potential, fostering appropriate competitive skill levels on the ice. Lacrosse, Men’s: The Men’s Club Lacrosse team is in its second year as an official club, and although new, the club is expected to be a top contender in its first season competing in the Rocky Mountain Lacrosse Conference this year. Men’s Club Lacrosse expects to host four home games at USAFA in Spring 2022. Lifting: A powerlifting club for men and women supporting fitness and competition. Model Engineering: Provides opportunities to safely construct and successfully fly model planes and helicopters. Motorcycle Mountaineering: One of USAFA’s oldest cadet clubs, USAFA Mountaineering provides instruction to cadets on safe hiking, camping, rock climbing, ice climbing, mountaineering, and backcountry skiing activities, and organizes frequent trips for cadets to practice these skills in the Colorado wilderness. Paintball: Develops the ability to think logically and calmly in high stress situations while leading a small unit of individuals in the game of paintball. Round Net Club: The Roundnet Club combines camaraderie with the nation’s fastest growing collegiate sport to develop teamwork and character. Ski, Recreational: Provides information on transportation and utilization of Colorado ski resorts and gear rentals. Soccer, Men’s: Allows male cadets to compete in the Rocky Mountain Collegiate Soccer League. Soccer, Women’s: Allows female cadets to compete in the Rocky Mountain Collegiate Soccer League. Tactical Simulation (TACSIM) / Airsoft: Helps develop officers to think calmly through high stress situations while leading small groups. <strongTaekwondo: a Korean form of martial arts, characterized by punching and kicking techniques, with emphasis on head-height kicks, jumping spinning kicks, and fast kicking techniques. Volleyball, Women’s: Provides opportunities to engage in the game of Volleyball and compete in tournaments. SPORTS CLUBS Competitive Climbing Team: Trains climbers for competitions in bouldering, speed climbing and sport climbing in USA Climbing’s collegiate series. Cycling: Provides opportunities to hone cycling skills and compete in national cycling events. Equestrian: Encourages leadership and discipline through national horse riding competitions. Falcon Crossfit: Pursuing excellence in the sport of fitness – ready for any challenge, anytime, anywhere! The club competes in local and national competitions and there’s a place for athletes at any level – whether you’re a beginner or a CrossFit Games alumni. Fast Pitch Softball, Women’s: Allows female cadets to hone softball skills and participate in national competitions. Judo: Teaches the martial arts of Judo and Brazilian Jiu Jitsu to participate in national competitions. Lacrosse, Women’s: Allows female cadets to hone lacross skills and participate in national competitions. Marathon: Facilitates participation in national and international competitive marathons, including qualifying for the Boston Marathon. Rodeo: Competes in five rodeos each semester in the bull riding, team roping, barrel racing, calf roping and steer wrestling events. Rugby, Men’s: Allows male cadets to hone rugby skills and participate in national competitions. Rugby, Women’s: Allows female cadets to hone rugby skills and participate in national competitions. Ski, Alpine: Participates in regional and national college ski racing competitions. Ski, Freestyle/Snowboard: Facilitates a safe environment to hone skills and participates in competitive freestyle events. Ski, Nordic: Competes in the United States Collegiate Ski and Snowboard Association. Team Handball: Participates in national handball competitions. Triathlon: Cultivates knowledge of the sport and self-discipline through triathlons competitions. Ultimate Frisbee, Men’s: Allows male cadets to train and compete in the Ultimate Players Association. Ultimate Frisbee, Women’s: Allows female cadets to train and compete in the Ultimate Players Association. Volleyball, Men’s: Allows male cadets to hone volleyball skills and participate in national competitions. Water Polo, Women’s: Allows female cadets to hone water polo skills and participate in national competitions. CONTACT US Cadet Clubs 2354 Fairchild Dr, Suite 4A20, USAFA, CO 80840 usafa.cwtm@usafa.edu Featured Club: The Air Force Academy's all-male a Capella group In the Stairwell Watch In The Stairwell ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.