Our Priorities Current Initiatives Connecting Art Histories Grants Awarded Digital Art History Grants Awarded Getty-ACLS Postdocs Pacific Standard Time PST 2024 Grants Awarded Initiative Report The Paper Project Grants Awarded Conserving Canvas Grants Awarded Keeping It Modern 2020 Grants Awarded 2019 Grants Awarded 2018 Grants Awarded 2017 Grants Awarded 2016 Grants Awarded 2015 Grants Awarded 2014 Grants Awarded Initiative Report Grant Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Report Library Getty Marrow Undergraduate Internships Information for Students Application for the Getty Center and Getty Villa Internships in L.A. Information for Organizations Impact Report About Deborah Marrow Post-Bacc Conservation Interns Graduate Interns Connecting Professionals/Sharing Expertise Residential Grants Pre– and Postdoctoral Fellowships Getty Scholar Grants Library Research Grants Conservation Guest Scholars LA Arts Recovery Fund Past Initiatives Pacific Standard Time: LA/LA Pacific Standard Time Presents: Modern Architecture Pacific Standard Time: Art in L.A. 1945-1980 Grants Awarded Economic Impact Report Panel Paintings Grants Awarded Ghent Altarpiece Vasari Last Supper Durer Adam and Eve Rubens Key Resources Initiative Report MOSAIKON CCA Training Grants Awarded Readings in Arabic Museums in Africa Getty East Africa Program MLI at CGU Online Scholarly Catalogue Initiative Final Report Browse Catalogues Electronic Cataloguing Initiative Individual and Team Research Grants Central and Eastern European Initiative Architecture and Museum Conservation Architecture Highlights Museum Highlights Campus Heritage Campus Heritage: Grants Awarded 2007 Campus Heritage: Grants Awarded 2006 Campus Heritage: Grants Awarded 2005 Campus Heritage: Grants Awarded 2004 Campus Heritage: Grants Awarded 2003 Campus Heritage: Grants Awarded 2002 Fund for New Orleans USC Annenberg/Getty Arts Journalism Preserve L.A. Publications Research Resources Local Gifts Program Connecting Art Histories The power and vitality of any scholarly discipline rest on its ability to forge connections—among people and ideas and across international boundaries. Connecting Art Histories aims to strengthen the discipline of art history globally and increase opportunities for sustained intellectual exchange across national and regional borders. The initiative springs from the recognition that art history develops fresh lines of inquiry when scholars from diverse regions, career stages, and academic training are able to inform each other's ideas and methodologies. Connecting Art Histories focuses on regions where economic or political realities have previously prevented collaboration. A key activity of the initiative is the training of younger scholars in countries where art history is an emerging discipline. Foundation grants also support intensive research seminars and visiting professorships in art history departments and research centers. Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have also offered resilience grants in our regions of focus that are shorter in duration and engage early-career scholars and graduate students in online programs. Proposals are accepted on an ongoing basis. They should include a thorough project description and the name of the project's principal investigator, most often a senior specialist who will oversee administration of the project. If you are interested in learning more or submitting a proposal, please contact gettyfoundation@getty.edu. More Information See descriptions of Connecting Art Histories grants. Learn about a related project, Art in Translation. Read the special issue of Art in Translation on Connecting Art Histories. Further Reading and Listening Connecting Art Histories in the Ancient Mediterranean, Getty Magazine, Spring 2018 Beyond Boundaries - Visual Culture in the Provinces of Ancient Rome, Getty Art + Ideas Podcast, January 2017 Images (Top): Participants in the Art, Power, and Politics research seminar hosted by the Deutsches Forum für Kunstgeschichte, Paris visit the Cabinet des dessins at the Musée des Arts décoratifs. Photo: Markus Schilder © 2019 J. Paul Getty Trust. (Right): Participants in the University of Berkeley's traveling seminar, The Many Lives of Ancient Monuments, visit the UNESCO World Heritage Site of Nemrut Dağ in Turkey. Photo: Gucugur Gorkay © 2019 J. Paul Getty Trust. Learn More Descriptions of Grants Awarded Related Project: Art in Translation Connecting Art Histories Special Issue: Art in Translation