Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Research Home Research and Fellowships Research and Awards Research and Awards Undergraduates in Dedman College have the unique opportunity to participate in research as early as their first year. These real-world experiences confronting and solving genuinely new problems provide an excellent preparation for life after SMU in a variety of career paths. Many Dedman College students have gone on to win prestigious awards for research and ideas cultivated right here on campus. Dedman College Fellowship Successes (2018 – present) Prestigious Student Awards Marshall Scholar Isabelle Galko, environmental science major, public policy and international affairs minor. Isabelle Galko was named a 2022 Marshall Scholar, one of 41 American university students selected to receive the honor. Read more. Schwarzman Scholar Jared Burleson, double major in Physics and Mathematics and a minor in Chinese. Jared Burleson was named a 2022 Schwarzman Scholar, one of 154 students selected globally to receive the honor. Read more. Schwarzman Scholar Benjamin H. Chi, Biochemistry, Health and Society Benjamin H. Chi was named a 2019 Schwarzman Scholar, one of 140 students selected globally to receive the honor. Read more. Why Research? There are many different opportunities for research at SMU including faculty-led projects, student-led projects, and collaborative projects. Within Dedman College, the Hamilton Undergraduate Research Scholars program fosters strong faculty-student collaboration. In addition to financial-based research awards, academic departments offer students the chance to pursue work in multiple semesters toward a senior thesis. These programs each have different emphases, and students are encouraged to look for the best match to their research interests. Visit the Office of Undergraduate Research SMU-led research is now a major Smithsonian Institution exhibition “I have had the incredible opportunity and once-in-a-lifetime experience to be involved in a research project that will be seen by millions of people from around the globe.” -Myria Perez Read More Becoming One With History Chaudhry Hameed interned with the Dallas Historical Society and enjoyed researching the DHS archive. He explained, “Open a random file cabinet drawer, and you are bound to be transported in the distant past, from letters signed by Sam Houston to century-old city maps." Read More A Mustang Who Wants to Save Lives “As a pre-health student, my work in the Vogel-Wise Lab allows me to not only participate in cutting-edge research on finding ways to help cancer patients who don’t respond to chemotherapy, but also to develop my own project and create meaningful connections with professors.” -Roxana Farokhnia Supreme Research “When my friends asked me what I was doing for the break, they were a little surprised when I said I would be reading in the Library of Congress for my Supreme Court Seminar class. And I guess I understand their surprise, but they didn’t know that I wouldn’t just be reading. For five days, I would be researching.” -Paxton Murphy Previous Next pause play hide show Explore Dedman College Institutes and Centers Center for Drug Discovery, Design, and Delivery Center for Scientific Computation Clements Center for Southwest Studies Center for Presidential History Dedman College Interdisciplinary Institute Institute for the Study of Earth and Man John Goodwin Tower Center for Political Studies Mission Foods Texas-Mexico Center Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube