Skip to main content Emergency Information Menu Close WolfAlert Messaging System How to Respond in an Emergency Fire Bomb Threat Suspicious Packages or Mail Active Shooter Medical Emergencies Hazardous Material Spill or Release Severe Weather Shelter-in-Place Crime in Progress Suspicious Person/Behavior Procedure for Urgent Facility Repair Evacuations Resources For Parents and Guardians Mission Continuity Laboratory Shutdown Crisis Communication Plan Emergency Operations Plan WolfAlert Messaging System WolfAlert Messaging System How to Respond in an Emergency How to Respond in an Emergency Fire Bomb Threat Suspicious Packages or Mail Active Shooter Medical Emergencies Hazardous Material Spill or Release Severe Weather Shelter-in-Place Crime in Progress Suspicious Person/Behavior Procedure for Urgent Facility Repair Evacuations Resources Resources For Parents and Guardians Mission Continuity Laboratory Shutdown Crisis Communication Plan Emergency Operations Plan Sign Up Now for Emergency Text Messages Follow the steps below to sign up for SMS alerts when a WolfAlert is issued. Students Log on to MyPack Portal. Enter the portal with your Unity ID and Password. (If you don’t know your id and password, call the NC State Help Desk, 515-HELP) Select the “For Students” tab Find the Personal Information area Select “Phone” under Contact Information If you do not have a Cell phone number listed, click the “Add a Phone Number” button, select “Cell” from the phone types, and enter the number including area code. If you do, skip this step. Click the Save button. When you’re done, click Sign Out at the top right of the page. If you have questions or get stuck, contact the Help Desk at 515-HELP. Faculty and Staff Log on to MyPack Portal. Enter the portal with your Unity ID and Password. (If you don’t know your id and password, call the NC State Help Desk, 515-HELP) Select “Employee Self-Service” from the menu on the left hand side of the screen. A. Select Personal Information then Phone Numbers from the menu on the left hand side -or- B. Select Phone Numbers, which appears under Personal Information in the middle of your screen. In the second field, enter your cell phone number. Don’t forget the area code. Leave the “extension” field blank. If your “business” phone number is already listed, leave it checked as “preferred” for general purposes. Click the Save button. When you’re done, click Sign Out at the top right of the page. If you have questions or get stuck, contact the Help Desk at 515-HELP. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Contact Copyright Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan University Libraries Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.