Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Research Applied Statistics Combinatorics Computational Analysis Differential Equations Ergodic Theory Functional Analysis Math Education Current Grants Take Action Student FAQ Cantor Sect Contact Us Home Math Sciences Research Differential Equations and Applied Mathematics Differential Equations and Applied Mathematics Main Focus of Research Interests Qualitative and Quantitative Theory of Ordinary, Functional and Partial Differential Equations, and systems of coupled differential equations arising in mathematical physics, engineering and applied sciences. These encompass both linear and nonlinear models of heat conduction, wave phenomena, material science, mathematical finance, electron density theory, quantum chemistry, suspension flows, nonlinear mechanics and elasticity, fluid dynamics, thermo-elasticity, viscoelasticity, etc; Control Theory as directed to the above models, to include optimal control theory; differential game theory; stabilization and controllability theories, in particular long time behavior and some aspects of dynamical systems; inverse problems. Weekly Seminars The group holds weekly research seminars with presentations from faculty and graduate students. The aim is to introduce graduate students to active research areas and guide them to a dissertation topic. Past seminars can be found on Events Calendar page. Recommended Courses In order to carry research in these areas, foundational courses need to be mastered as well as core areas. The particular track is tailored to fit the student's interests under the advisor's guidance. PhD students are encouraged to submit their work to research-oriented journals. Foundational Courses Math 6391 - Partial Differential Equation I Math 7350 - Real Variables I Math 7351 - Real Variables II Math 7/8355 - Functional Analysis I Math 7361 - Complex Analysis Core Courses Math 7375 - Methods Math Physics I Math 7376 - Mthds Math Physics II Math 7/8393 - Differential Equations/Applications Math 7/8395 - Theory of Differential Equations Math 7/8501 - Nonlinear Wave Phenomena Math 7/8504 - Partial Differential Equations For more information on course descriptions see the graduate catalog. Research Conferences PhD students are encouraged to attend various conferences in their research areas. This is in addition to the conferences and seminars frequently hosted by the Department. Job Placement PhD students of the advisors in the group have secured academic tenured positions in top rated research universities such as UC Berkeley, Northwestern University, Univ of Vanderbilt, North Carolina State, University of Nebraska, Clemson University, Texas Tech; postdocs positions at MIT, Univ. of Minnesota, UCLA, USC, Oregon State, Tapper School of Business at Carnegie Mellon, Mittag Leffler, NSF, AFOSR, and Army Fellowships; as well as high tech jobs in the private sector and at federal institutions such as: Martin Lockeed, NSA, Northrop Grumman, financial institutions (WellFargo, Suntrust); and also postdoc and regular positions abroad at INRIA (Paris), Companie General Geophysique (Paris), L'Ecole Central (Paris). The highlight is Daniel Tataru, presently Professor at UC Berkeley, recipient of AMS Bocher prize in 2002, invited speaker at ICM in Beijing and most recently elevated to membership in the American Academy of Art and Sciences. Placement of former PhD students advised by the faculty in this group include academic jobs at research universities as well as at high-tech industrial, financial and research companies both in US and abroad. Summer Funding Summer funding may be available for some advanced PhD students. Editorial Activities Several faculty members serve with no less than 30 cumulative appointments on Editorial Boards of main stream journals in the area of Applied Analysis, Applied Mathematics, Differential Equations and Control Theory, to include also the position as editor-in chief. Members Below are research interests and two representative or recent publications from each member. Hongqiu Chen, Professor Research Interests: Partial differential equations and fluid mechanics. Stability of solitary-wave solutions of systems of dispersive equations (with Jerry Bona, Ohannes Karakashian), Appl. Math. Optim. 75 (2017), no. 1, 27-53. Well-posedness for a higher-order, nonlinear, dispersive equation on a quarter plane, Discrete Contin. Dyn. Syst. 38 (2018), no. 1, 397-423. Numerical Study of the Second-order Correct Hamiltonian Model for Unidirectional Water waves (with Jerry Bona, Ohannes Karakashian and Youngjoon Hong), Water Waves, 1 (2019), no. 1, 3-40. Gisèle Goldstein, Professor Research Interests: Mathematical physics, continuum mechanics, financial mathematics, quantum mechanical density functional theory, applied analysis and partial differential equations. A Cahn-Hillard model in a domain with non-permeable walls, Physica D: Nonlinear Phenomena 240 (2011), 754-766 (with A. Miranville and G. Schimperna) Chaotic solutions for the Black-Scholes equation, Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society, 140 (2012), 2043-2052 (with H. Emamirad and J.A. Goldstein) Jerome Goldstein, Professor Research Interests: Linear and nonlinear PDE, operator theory, stochastic processes, mathematical physics, classical analysis, applied analysis, financial mathematics. Abstract wave equations and associated Dirac-type operators (with F.Gesztesy, H. Holden and G. Teschl), Ann. Mat. Pura Appl. (4) 191 (2012),631-676 . Asymptotic parabolicity for strongly damped wave equations (with G.Fragnelli, G. R. Goldstein and S. Romanelli), in Spectral Analysis, Differential Equations and Mathematical Physics, A Festschrift in Honor of Fritz Gesztesy's 60th Birthday, Proceedings of Symposia in Pure Mathematics, Vol. 87, Amer. Math. Soc. (2013), 119-131. John Haddock, Professor Research Interests: Ordinary and functional differential equations, STEM Education. Parallel theories of integral equations (with T.A. Burton), Nonlinear Studies, 17 (2010), 177-197 The effectiveness of blended instruction in core postsecondary mathematics courses, (with A. Bargagliotti-Lead, F. Botelho, J. Gleason, and A. Windsor), The International Journal for Technology in Mathematics Education, 19, no. 3 (2012), 83-94 Thomas Hagen, Professor Research Interests: Applied analysis, partial differential equations, dynamical systems, fluid mechanics. On the membrane approximation in isothermal film casting, Zeitsch. Angew. Math. Phys. (ZAMP), 65 (2014), 729-745. On a non-isothermal model of free fluid films (with S. Ceci), J. Math. Anal. Appl. 434 (2016), 35-51. Volume-scavenging of networked droplets (with P. Steen), Phys. D 394 (2019), 1-15. Irena Lasiecka, Distinguished University Professor; Chair Research Interests: Applied Mathematics. Evolutionary linear and nonlinear partial differential equations. Mathematical control theory and optimization theory. Long time behavior and theory of attractors. Boundary stabilization, boundary controllability problems for linear and nonlinear parabolic and hyperbolic PDE's, as well as for coupled systems of PDE's equations arising in structural acoustic, thermoelastic systems, fluid structure and flow structure interactions with an interface. Small data global existence for a fluid-structure model (with M. Ignatova, I. Kukavica, A. Tuffaha) . Nonlinearity 30 (2017), no. 2, 848–898. Global smooth attractors for dynamics of thermal shallow shells without vertical dissipation (with T-F. Ma, R.N. Monteiro ) . Trans. Amer. Math. Soc. 371 (2019), no. 11, 8051–8096. Chueshov, Igor; Lasiecka, Irena Long-time behavior of second order evolution equations with nonlinear damping. Mem. Amer. Math. Soc. 195 (2008), no. 912, viii+183 pp. Roberto Triggiani, Distinguished University Professor Research Interests: Control Theory, Partial Differential Equations. Backward uniqueness of the C_0-semigroup associated with a parabolic-hyperbolic coupled Stokes-Lame PDE system (with G.Avalos), Trans.Amer.Math.Soc. Vol 88(9) (2009), 1357-1396. Boundary control and boundary inverse theory for non-homogeneous second order hyperbolic equations: a common Carleman estimates approach (with S.Liu), HCDTE Lectures Notes. Part I. Nonlinear Hyperbolic PDEs, Dispersive and Transport Equations, AIMS on Applied Mathematics Vol 6, (2013), pp 227-339, American Institute of Mathematical Sciences. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/15/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.