` Search Search Search Tangen Hall Student Services Join VLAB Book a Team Room Work in the Studios & Labs General Information Hours, Directions, & Parking Building Policies Emergency Procedures Security For Students Choose Your Pathway All Pathways Explorer Founder Joiner Investor Navigator Goergen Entrepreneurial Programs Start Here Mondays Don’t know where to start? Meet with one of our knowledgeable staff and craft your entrepreneurial path. Venture Initiation Program The Venture Initiation Program is an incubator that introduces students to the key aspects of entrepreneurship Startup Challenge Startup Challenge winners receive cash and prizes worth over $135,000 to help them launch their ventures Startup Internship Award Summer Venture Award Visiting Experts Signature Programs Bet on Entrepreneurship Penn Wharton Innovation Fund Snider Consulting Weiss Tech House Wharton Scale School Innovation Spaces Digital Design Studio Fabrication Studios Retail Lab For Alumni Resources For Alumni Startups Venture Initiation Program Wharton Scale School Snider Consulting Wharton Alumnae Founders & Funders Association Wharton Alumni Angel Network Support the Next Generation of Entrepreneurs Mentorship Visiting Experts Careers & Recruitment Penn Career Services Wharton MBA Career Management Give to Venture Lab At Venture Lab, we strive to stay entrepreneurial ourselves. Rather than relying on yesterday’s solutions, we innovate and iterate, testing new programs and getting feedback on their usefulness and relevance. This is why, whether you’re two years out or twenty, you may notice some changes. Some things do stay the same, however. One is our dedication to providing the very best entrepreneurial education to our students. Another is the importance of support from our alumni, whose gifts make everything we do possible. More Events All Events Scale School: Perspectives on Start-Up Acquisitions Presented in partnership with Lifelong Learning Wharton Professor J. Daniel Kim and panelists will discuss the post-acquisition reality from the perspectives of both established companies (“acquirers”) and start-ups (“targets”). More About Vice Dean Executive Director Vice Dean of Entrepreneurship Lori Rosenkopf is the Vice Dean of Entrepreneurship and the Simon and Midge Palley Professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. More Join VLAB Join VLAB More Menu Tangen Hall Student Services Join VLAB Book a Team Room Work in the Studios & Labs General Information Hours, Directions, & Parking Building Policies Emergency Procedures Security For Students Choose Your Pathway All Pathways Explorer Founder Joiner Investor Navigator Goergen Entrepreneurial Programs Start Here Mondays Don’t know where to start? Meet with one of our knowledgeable staff and craft your entrepreneurial path. Venture Initiation Program The Venture Initiation Program is an incubator that introduces students to the key aspects of entrepreneurship Startup Challenge Startup Challenge winners receive cash and prizes worth over $135,000 to help them launch their ventures Startup Internship Award Summer Venture Award Visiting Experts Signature Programs Bet on Entrepreneurship Penn Wharton Innovation Fund Snider Consulting Weiss Tech House Wharton Scale School Innovation Spaces Digital Design Studio Fabrication Studios Retail Lab For Alumni Resources For Alumni Startups Venture Initiation Program Wharton Scale School Snider Consulting Wharton Alumnae Founders & Funders Association Wharton Alumni Angel Network Support the Next Generation of Entrepreneurs Mentorship Visiting Experts Careers & Recruitment Penn Career Services Wharton MBA Career Management Give to Venture Lab At Venture Lab, we strive to stay entrepreneurial ourselves. Rather than relying on yesterday’s solutions, we innovate and iterate, testing new programs and getting feedback on their usefulness and relevance. This is why, whether you’re two years out or twenty, you may notice some changes. Some things do stay the same, however. One is our dedication to providing the very best entrepreneurial education to our students. Another is the importance of support from our alumni, whose gifts make everything we do possible. More Events All Events Scale School: Perspectives on Start-Up Acquisitions Presented in partnership with Lifelong Learning Wharton Professor J. Daniel Kim and panelists will discuss the post-acquisition reality from the perspectives of both established companies (“acquirers”) and start-ups (“targets”). More About Vice Dean Executive Director Vice Dean of Entrepreneurship Lori Rosenkopf is the Vice Dean of Entrepreneurship and the Simon and Midge Palley Professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. More Join VLAB Join VLAB More Search 2022 Startup Challenge Perlman Grand Prize Winner: ToxiSense We're pleased to announce the winner of the sixth annual Startup Challenge sponsored by Eric Aroesty, C’92: ToxiSense, co-founded by a team of four University of Pennsylvania freshmen, Aravind Krishnan, C’25, W’25; Udit Garg, ENG’25; Andrew Diep-Tran, W’25; and Aarush Sahni, C’25. READ MORE Tangen Hall brings together aspiring entrepreneurs across the University At seven stories and 68,000 square feet, the Wharton-led Tangen is the largest student entrepreneurship hub in the world. “The ‘start here’ approach is echoed in our mission of democratizing entrepreneurship for all students at Penn,” says Lori Rosenkopf, vice dean of entrepreneurship and Simon and Midge Palley Professor of Management at the Wharton School. READ MORE Play Now 0:00 / 0:00 Video Companion On Off Pathways Venture Lab offers five unique pathways for students and alumni interested in entrepreneurship and innovation. Each pathways features tailored programming that intertwines with our collective programs and resources. Explorer Founder Joiner Investor Navigator Learn About Pathways Get Your Tangen Hall Pass Apply for a student membership to access Tangen Hall, Venture Lab community events, Slack, and more. Join VLAB Venture Lab was built to encourage interdisciplinary, integrated, and inclusive entrepreneurship. It’s a beacon that showcases the wide variety of opportunities across the University. Come grow with us! Lori Rosenkopf, Vice Dean of Entrepreneurship at The Wharton School The New Tangen Hall At seven stories and 68,000-square-feet, Tangen Hall is the largest hub of its kind on any college campus. Located on the northeast corner of 40th and Sansom streets, Tangen Hall is the physical “start here” button for aspiring entrepreneurs and innovators at the University of Pennsylvania. More Startup Stories Find out what's happening across the #entrePENNeur community! Want to tell your story? Contact us at venturelab@upenn.edu. Capgemini collaborates with the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania’s Venture Lab to develop clean energy solutions and sustainability initiatives MIT Sloan: Lori Rosenkopf on 'Has COVID-19 Permanently Changed Business Strategy?' John Legend Receives 2021 Penn Wharton Entrepreneurship Alumni Achievement Award News Lucy Xu W'13 on Scaling Startups in Greece's Emerging Tech Markets WIRED: Lori Rosenkopf on Who Do Young Entrepreneurs Look Up To? Get the Inside Track Subscribe Subscribe Follow Us twitter instagram facebook linkedin Tangen Hall Hours, Directions, & Parking Join VLAB Book a Team Room Work in the Studios & Labs Building Policies Innovation Spaces Digital Design Studio Fabrication Studios Retail Lab Goergen Entrepreneurial Program Start Here Mondays Venture Initiation Program Startup Challenge Startup Internship Award Summer Venture Award Visiting Experts Signature Programs Bet on Entrepreneurship Penn Wharton Innovation Fund Snider Consulting Entrepreneurship Education Coursera Specialization Wharton MBA Major Wharton Scale School Wharton UG Concentration About Overview Leadership Team Alumni Advisory Board Faculty Steering Committee Need Help? We're available by phone and email from 9am -5pm ET, Monday through Friday Email: venturelab@upenn.edu Phone: (215) 898-4856 Email Phone Address | Penn | Wharton | Engineering | Privacy | Accessibility | Disclaimer