Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For: Admitted Students Current Students Alumni Faculty Field Agency Partners Employers Prospective Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Equity, Justice, and Inclusion History & Mission Strategic Directions Facts & Figures News & Events 2021 Blog Archive Contact Related Links About BC Accreditation Admission Overview Why BCSSW? Apply to MSW Program Apply to PhD Program Tuition & Aid Visit Academics Overview Master of Social Work Program Full-time MSW Program Part-time MSW Program Field Education Advanced Standing Dual Degrees PhD Program Initiatives Black Leadership Initiative Latinx Leadership Initiative Trauma Integration Initiative Related Links Careers School of Social Work Library Faculty Overview Faculty Directory & Expertise Open Faculty & Postdoc Positions Related Links Social Work Library Equity, Justice, and Inclusion Research Community Overview Student Support Library Living Here Learning Communities Careers Related Links BC Graduate Student Life BCSSW News & Events Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Social Work Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Admitted Students Current Students Alumni Faculty Field Agency Partners Employers Prospective Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Academics Master of Social Work Program Master of Social Work Program Full-time MSW Program Part-time MSW Program Field Education Advanced Standing Dual Degrees Master of Social Work Program Educating Tomorrow’s Social Work Practitioners Students in our top-ranked MSW program aren’t just scholars—they’re also researchers who collaborate with faculty on compelling projects and practitioners who spend 2-3 days per week working in schools, nonprofits, and hospitals through our robust field placement program. Apply Inquire Deadlines Early: December 1, 2021 Priority: January 15, 2022 Regular: *Rolling Chart your course to difference-making. Choose a specialized practice: clinical or macro Clinical We challenge and prepare our clinical program students to integrate evidence-based interventions and culturally sensitive practice with individuals, couples, families, and groups. Students become proficient in assessment and diagnostic classification and learn to develop professional therapeutic alliance and relationship skills. Through coursework and field practice, students are exposed to a broad overview of therapeutic interventions and have an opportunity to develop advanced practice skills and therapeutic techniques. Two-Year Program Curriculum Three-Year Program Curriculum Macro Macro social work aims to affect change within large systems at the community, organizational, and policy levels. BCSSW’s macro specialization focuses on social innovation and leadership, emphasizing the development of ideas, mechanisms, and new social arrangements to enhance community capacity to address complex social challenges. Students train in the foundations of participatory community-based social work practice and research and learn recent advances in human-centered design, systems thinking, and other analytical tools to drive innovation, address complex social problems, and enable sustained social impact. In their coursework and field internships, students gain practice skills that focus on advocacy, leadership and administration, financial management and resource development, and novel approaches to drive social change and advance the common good. Two-Year Program Curriculum Three-Year Program Curriculum Choose a field of practice Within either specialized practice (clinical or macro), you will develop expertise by selecting a field of practice. The six fields of practice offered at BCSSW are: Afrocentric Social Work Children, Youth, & Families Global Practice Health Latinx Communities Mental Health Explore Fields of Practice Learn in the field Students in the School of Social Work receive professional training from organizations throughout the Greater Boston area, providing them with critical on-the-ground experience that enhances their classroom learning and prepares them for a successful career. We've cultivated strong relationships with our agency partners, enabling you to choose from more than 1,000 opportunities. You'll receive mentoring and support every step of the way. Field Education Customize your experience Flexibility Study full time and finish in two years Study part time and finish in three years Full-Time Program of Study Part-Time Program of Study Certificates You can add an optional certificate to your MSW degree: Advanced Research Aging Populations & Gerontology Black Leadership Child Welfare Latinx Leadership Leaders for Equity and Justice in the Workplace Neuroscience & Social Work Refugees & Immigrants School Social Work Trauma Certificate Details Dual Degrees Combine your MSW with a JD, MBA, or MA in Theology & Ministry. Explore Dual Degrees Electives Our MSW program consists of 12 required courses and 5 electives. Each semester there are 50+ electives to choose from. Browse Electives break Fields of Practice Our MSW program offers six concentrated fields of practice pathways that include specialized coursework and advanced field education placements. Afrocentric Social Work Children, Youth, & Families Global Practice Health Latinx Communities Mental Health Afrocentric Social Work The Afrocentric Social Work field of practice centers on the African Diaspora and Black experiences, inclusive of continental Africa, the Caribbean, Latin America, Central America, and the United States. The Afrocentric perspective is an ontological and epistemological orientation that places African people as participants and agents shaping their life chances and experiences. It will equip MSW students with a holistic approach towards a critical examination of social work from an African-centered perspective. Students will be exposed to Afrocentric thinking and practice modalities – clinical and macro – that function as staples of social work with Black communities. Students will have historical and contemporary contexts of the vast African diaspora that makes up the many “Black communities” globally. They will obtain an overview of the African worldview and the history, culture, and contributions to the world civilization of African-descended people applied to social work practice. Clinical and Macro Social Work Required course: Advanced Practice in Afrocentric Social Work Children, Youth, & Families Our innovative Children, Youth, & Families curriculum will prepare you to assess individuals and families and to develop and implement evidence-based intervention strategies that improve the health and resilience of families and their communities. Children, Youth, & Families students intern in settings such as schools, private non-profits, community health centers, and organizations working on issues related to trauma, poverty, family homelessness, health and behavioral health, immigrant integration, and a host of growing family issues confronting society. In the advanced practice course, students delve deeply into learning how to create engaging, activity-based therapy groups for youth, as well as learning several parenting and family therapy models. Additionally, specialized courses in school-based social work will prepare you for meeting the academic requirements for the Department of Education School Social Work license in Massachusetts and some other states. Clinical Social Work Required course: SCWK 8872 Advanced Clinical Interventions with Children, Youth, & Families Macro Social Work Required course: SCWK 8885 Management of Organizations Serving Children, Youth, & Families Global Practice Global Practice will prepare you to work effectively in the fields of global social work, humanitarian aid, and international development. You will learn different approaches to addressing complex social issues that often transcend national boundaries and affect much of the world’s population. Your work will be guided by the principles of human rights, human security, human development, and the promotion of sustainable solutions to social problems. As a Global Practice student, you will have the opportunity to work domestically or internationally with one of our many intergovernmental and nongovernmental organizational partners. Examples of this work include providing training and support for case managers serving refugees and asylum seekers; drafting immigration policies; developing programs to promote peace or prevent gender-based violence; writing grant proposals; monitoring and evaluating child protection programs; or helping develop organizational policies for effective and sustainable practice. Our Global Practice graduates work in the U.S. and overseas in a range of positions that involve direct practice, program development, management, evaluation, research, training, capacity building, and policy. From policy development in Washington, DC., to program development in Cambodia, our graduates contribute to policy, practice, and research that improve the lives and well-being of individuals, families, and communities around the world. Clinical and Macro Social Work Required courses include: SCWK 7797 Frameworks and Tools for Global Practice SCWK 8806 Global Policy Issues and Implications Related Links Global Program on Migration, Refugees, & Humanitarian Assistance Health Our primary goal is to prepare you for advanced practice in clinical services, advocacy, or management roles in the field of health care. You receive specialized knowledge, skills, and training in the areas of assessment, evidence-based interventions, policy, planning, and management techniques. Clinical students focus on developing strong assessment skills and learning evidence-based treatment interventions to work with individuals, couples, families, and groups in healthcare settings. Macro students specialize in developing the policy, planning, and management skills to become effective advocates and leaders at the local, state, or national level. Our graduates work in a panoply of health and behavioral health settings ranging from hospital based to community based, acute care to rehabilitation facilities, forensic services and homeless services, outpatient clinics and substance abuse programs, state agencies, and grass roots organizations. With Massachusetts leading the way in national health care reform, you will be exposed to the rapidly changing organization and delivery of health care. Clinical Social Work Required course: SCWK 8873 Integration of Behavioral Health & Medical Care Practice Macro Social Work Required course: SCWK 8897 Planning for Health and Mental Health Services Latinx Communities The Latinx Communities field of practice trains MSW students to work with Latinx communities in the U.S. and around the world. Our innovative program includes culturally-centered coursework and field placements, tailored mentoring, self-advocacy training, and career development guidance. From an asset-based approach, you will develop a nuanced understanding of the barriers Latinx populations encounter in accessing equitable education, social services, and health care, as well as a deep understanding of how to implement evidence-based interventions that address systemic inequities. Following a cohort model, you will take core classes taught in Spanish and intern at a field placement with one of our many partners in the Greater Boston area that serve the legal, medical, behavioral health, immigration, and educational needs of the Latinx community. Please note, unlike the other fields of practice, you must apply to the Latinx Communities Field of Practice prior to starting your first year in the MSW program. Learn more about this field of practice and how to apply by reviewing our frequently asked questions. Clinical and Macro Social Work Required course: SCWK 8837 Social Services with Latinx Populations in the US Trauma-Informed Mental Health Our primary goal is to prepare you for advanced practice in clinical services, advocacy, or management roles in the dynamic field of trauma-informed behavioral health. You receive specialized knowledge, skills, and training in the areas of assessment, evidence-based interventions, policy, planning, and management techniques. Clinical students focus on developing strong trauma-informed assessment skills and learning evidence-based treatment interventions to work with individuals, couples, families, and groups in behavioral health settings. Macro students specialize in developing the policy, planning, and management skills to become effective advocates and leaders at the local, state, or national level. Our graduates work in a variety of settings that often require trauma-informed skills. Settings range from hospital based to community based, acute care to rehabilitation facilities, forensic services and homeless services, outpatient clinics and substance abuse programs, state agencies, and grass roots organizations. With Massachusetts leading the way in national health care reform, you will be exposed to the rapidly changing organization and delivery of behavioral health. Clinical Social Work Required course: SCWK 8874 Adult Psychological Trauma Macro Social Work Required course: SCWK 8897 Planning for Health and Mental Health Services Certificates Our 10 certificates give students the opportunity to build knowledge in subject-specific areas of social work. Certificates require the completion of three specified courses within a chosen area. Print Open All Close All Advanced Research SCWK 7747 Research Methods in Social Work Practice Offered: Fall semester SCWK 9964 Intro to Statistics & Data Analysis Offered: Fall semester This is a doctoral course. Permission from the instructor is necessary. SCWK 9960 Regression Analysis for Social & Behavioral Sciences Offered: Spring semester This is a doctoral course. Permission from the instructor is necessary. Aging Populations & Gerontology SWCK7721 Human Behavior and the Social Environment Offered: Fall semester SCWK8823 Practice in Health and Mental Health Settings with Older Adults Offered: Fall semester SCWK8802 Policy for Aging Society: Issues and Options Offered: Spring semester Black Leadership SCWK 7723 Re-thinking Diversity Offered: Fall semester SCWK History of Activism in Black Communities Offered: Falls semester SCWK Afrocentric Organizations Offered: Spring semester Child Welfare SCWK 8805 Policy Issues in Family & Children’s Services Offered: Spring semester SCWK 8880 Social Work Practice in Child Welfare Offered: Fall semester SCWK 8822 Child and Adolescent Trauma: Clinical Assessment and Treatment Offered: Summer, Fall and Spring semesters Latinx Leadership SCWK 7723 Re-thinking Diversity Offered: Fall semester SCWK 8854 Advanced Clinical Practice with Latinx Populations (in Spanish) Offered: Summer semester SCWK 7777 Service to Migrants: A Border Perspective Offered: Spring semester (limited enrollment based on seat availability; travel required) Leaders for Equity & Justice in the Workplace SCWK 7723 Re-thinking Diversity: Systems of Oppression & Privilege Offered: Fall semester SCWK 8847 Creating the Inclusive Workplace: Topics in Organizational Justice Offered: Summer semester SCWK 8838 Dismantling Organizational Bias through Evidence-Based Practice Offered: Spring semester Neuroscience and Social Work Certificate SCWK 7721 Human Behavior and the Social Environment Offered: Fall semester SCWK 7724 Neurobiology of Stress & Resilience in the Life Offered: Summer and Spring semester SCWK 7726 Neuroscience of Human Relationships & Development Offered: Fall semester Refugees & Immigrants SCWK 7723 Re-thinking Diversity: Systems of Oppression & Privilege Offered: Fall semester SCWK 7794 Immigrants & Refugees Offered: Fall semester SCWK 7719 Migration, Politics, and Social Work: The Challenge of Justice and Care Offered: Summer semester OR SCWK 7777 Services to Migrants Offered: Spring semester (limited enrollment based on seat availability; travel required) School Social Work This certificate is for clinical students only. This certificate does not alone meet the requirements for MA. Dept. of Ed. School Social Worker license. SCWK 8855 Clinical Practice with Children and Families Offered: Spring semester SCWK 8881 School Social Work: Program Development and Educational Policies Offered: Fall semester SCWK 8858 Clinical Practice in Schools Offered: Spring semester Trauma This certificate is for clinical students only. SCWK 8856 Clinical Practice with Adults Offered: Spring semester OR SCWK 8855 Clinical Practice with CYF Offered: Spring semester SCWK 8822 Child and Adolescent Trauma: Clinical Assessment and Treatment Offered: Summer, Fall, and Spring semesters, and required for all clinical mental health field-of-practice students who want this certificate OR SCWK 8874 Adult Psychological Trauma Offered: Fall semester SCWK 8879 Advanced Trauma Theory and Treatment Modalities Offered: Spring semester Tuition & Aid $1,334 Tuition & fees per credit hour 95% of BCSSW students receive some type of scholarship More About Tuition & Aid Our Students Our current students and alumni serve communities locally and across the globe, sustaining positive social change through critical work. Filter Filter By Alumni current student All Alumni current student Class of 2020 Outcomes 99% Were employed within one year of graduation 59% Received starting salaries of $50,000+ 93% Passed licensure exam on first attempt Career Services From the Field: Social Work in Action “Dispatches from the Field” showcases the relationships BCSSW students foster and the impact they have through fieldwork—in Greater Boston and around the world. Dispatches from the Field Quick Links MSW Program Research Projects Why BCSSW? Equity, Justice, & Inclusion Facts & Figures Back To Top Back To Top Boston College School of Social Work 140 Commonwealth Ave McGuinn Hall Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4020 About Admission Academics Faculty Research Community Apply Visit Give Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College