Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Human Resources> Compensation> East Carolina University Automobile Policy and Allowances - Version 2 East Carolina University Automobile Policy and Allowances Version 2 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Current Version Compare 2 Versions Policy POL06.20.03 Title East Carolina University Automobile Policy and Allowances Category Human Resources Sub-category Compensation Authority Board of Trustees History Approved by Chancellor May 17, 2005; approved by Board of Trustees July 1, 2005. Approved by UNC GA May 2, 2006. Approved by the Board of Trustees November 12, 2021. Contact Department of Human Resources (252) 328-9847 Related Policies East Carolina University Policy on Non-Salary and Deferred Compensation for Employees Exempt from the Human Resources Act Additional References The UNC Policy Manual 300.2.14, Policy on Non-Salary and Deferred Compensation ECU Automobile Allowance Rates 1. Purpose To establish a comprehensive automobile policy for East Carolina University, its colleges, departments, and affiliated organizations. 2. Automobile Allowances 2.1 The automobile allowance for the Chancellor must be approved by the President of the UNC System and the allowance for Tier I Senior Academic and Administrative Officers (Tier I SAAOs) must be approved by the Chancellor and the ECU Board of Trustees. 2.2 Associate Vice Chancellors, Foundation Presidents, Major Gifts Officers, Athletics Staff (e.g., Head Coaches, Assistant Coaches), and other employees Exempt from the Human Resources Act (EHRA) who routinely travel, representing the university and its affiliated organizations, may also receive an allowance in accordance with the ECU Non-Salary Compensation Policy. 2.3 The automobile allowance will be based on the typical monthly lease payment for a fleet vehicle, plus insurance and taxes. 2.3.1 A mileage allowance will be included to eliminate the need to keep a mileage log. The allowance will be adjusted to cover incremental tax liability. The allowance will be paid in equal semi-monthly installments via payroll. An attached schedule shows the established car allowance rates. (These rates will be periodically reviewed and adjusted). 2.4 Funding for automobile allowances is to be made from Institutional Trust Funds or Foundation accounts. 2.4.1. Any adjustments to the allowances on this schedule must be approved by the Vice Chancellor of Administration and Finance, the Chancellor and the Board of Trustees. 3. Leased or Purchased Vehicles 3.1 The University, its colleges, departments, organizations, and foundations may not lease or purchase a passenger vehicle for the use of any individual or group of employees who travel on university business. 3.1.1. Passenger vehicles to support athletics or other university programs may be an exception to this policy, with the prior written approval of the Vice Chancellor of Administration and Finance. 4. Courtesy Cars 4.1 Car dealers support University affiliated organizations through ECU affiliated Foundations by providing courtesy cars. 4.2 Each employee receiving a courtesy car must establish a written reasonable basis for needing the car and the appropriate Vice Chancellor must approve it in writing with a copy to the Vice Chancellor for Administration and Finance. An annual attestation must be completed to the ongoing business justification. 4.2.1 It is understood that the Pirate Club has a courtesy car program established with certain Pirate Club donors and that this program will continue. 4.3 In all cases, employees using courtesy cars will be required to maintain a mileage log for reimbursement of travel miles, and for the determination of business and personal miles traveled, for IRS reporting requirements. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier