Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor Law School News Baylor>Baylor Law>About>News Baylor Law Hosts Inaugural The Closer National Transactional Law Competition January 18, 2017 Baylor Law Hosts Inaugural The Closer National Transactional Law Competition WACO, Texas - On January 12-15, eight competitors from law schools with accomplished transactional programs gathered at Baylor Law to participate in the law school's latest national competition: The Closer. A Transactional Law Competition Like No Other In its inaugural year, Alexia Boggs of the University of Mississippi School of Law and Bobby Bramhall from the University of Tennessee College of Law are the winners of Baylor Law School's innovative transactional law competition The Closer. The Closer is an invitation-only transactional law competition reflecting Baylor Law School's commitment to training practice-ready lawyers. The contest featured a substantial $10,000 prize pool and a chance for the competitors to flex their deal making prowess. Only schools who have previously excelled at the National Transactional LawMeet® were invited to compete. And, unlike other transactional law contests, the details of the problem were only disclosed to the competitors twenty-four hours prior to the first round of negotiations. This tight timeline pushed competitors to identify the legal issues and devise and negotiate solutions that best serve their client's wishes with the efficiency required of lawyers under realistic time constraints. Competitors negotiated a term sheet between Balcones Distilling, L.L.C. (Waco's award winning whisky distillery) and Premier Service Corporation, a fictional hospitality management company proposing to manage Balcones' gift shop and hospitality business. During the competition, the students made a site visit to the distillery, had a meeting with their client, and reviewed a large client file including email correspondence, drafts of contracts, research, and other relevant information in an effort to produce an agreement that satisfied and protected the interests of both parties. Closing the Deal Bobby Bramhall and Alexia Boggs Alexia Boggs took home $5,000 for representing the interests of Premier, and Bobby Bramhall took home $5,000 for representing Balcones Distilling. Both competitors earned the privilege of calling themselves Baylor Law School's first Closers. Upon winning, Boggs said, "Winning The Closer was an exciting way to begin my final semester of law school! I had so much fun getting to know the other competitors, our clients, and the wonderful people at Baylor Law who hosted such a unique competition with every detail perfectly thought out." Boggs also graciously thanked the Baylor Law professor who created The Closer and sponsors, saying, "I am especially grateful to Professor Beth Miller for her enthusiasm for transactional law and to those who sponsored the competition!" Bobby Bramhall, co-champion with Boggs, added: "Baylor Law put on a first-class event in every aspect, and we were proud to be named the winners. Professor Krumm and I were honored to represent the University of Tennessee in my home state and I know that The Closer will continue to be a success in the future. Thank you to the Baylor Law family!" "Baylor alumni at Haynes and Boone, LLP are pleased to see Baylor Law School's growing focus on transactional law practice—and Haynes and Boone was especially pleased to have participated as a sponsor for The Closer," said Tom Harris, partner at Haynes and Boone, LLP. "The competition showcased Baylor Law School's commitment to teaching law students to prepare and to think on their feet (or, in this case, to think and speak while seated and engaged in an unpredictable mock negotiation). Well done, Professor Miller and the rest of the Baylor Law School team," he concluded. Final Round JUDGES SCORING THE FINAL ROUNDS WERE: Tom Harris: partner, Haynes and Boone, LLP, leading the Mergers and Acquisitions Practice Group Janice Davis: partner, Bracewell LLP Greg Looser: Co-Founder, Partner and Director of Clarion Offshore Partners, LLC, a partnership formed with The Blackstone Group Jennifer Lindsey: partner, Beard Kultgen Brophy Bostwick & Dickson, LLP Lotte Bostick: General Counsel, FirstCity Financial Corporation BAYLOR LAW SCHOOL SINCERELY THANKS THOSE WHO INVESTED IN THE CLOSER: Kim and Bill Shaddock for their vision and for underwriting the competition Haynes and Boone, LLP for its sponsorship and its outstanding commitment to furthering education in transactional law Balcones Distilling, LLC for use of their facility and their brand as the basis of competition Naman Howell Smith & Lee, PLLC for allowing their attorneys to help craft the issues Jennifer and Ryan Lindsey 2017 PARTICIPATING SCHOOLS AND COMPETITORS Drexel University's Thomas R. Kline School of Law - Kristen Capriotti Northern Kentucky University Chase College of Law - Jason Rainey Northwestern Pritzker School of Law - Katie Stevens South Texas College of Law - Jackson Gayle University of Colorado Law School - Parker Steel University of Mississippi School of Law - Alexia Boggs University of Tennessee College of Law - Luke S. Smith University of Tennessee College of Law - Bobby Bramhall For more information about the competition, visit The Closer on Baylor Law School's website, or contact competition coordinator Professor Elizabeth Miller. UNDERWRITTEN BY SPONSORED BY SPECIAL THANKS TO CONTACT: Joshua Weaver, Marketing and Public Relations Specialist EMAIL: josh_weaver@baylor.edu or 254.710.6681 ABOUT BAYLOR LAW SCHOOL Established in 1857, Baylor Law School was one of the first law schools in Texas and one of the first west of the Mississippi River. Today, the school has more than 7,400 living alumni. It is accredited by the American Bar Association and is a member of the Association of American Law Schools. Baylor Law School has a record of producing outstanding lawyers, many of whom decide upon a career in public service. The Law School boasts two governors, members or former members of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, two former directors of the FBI, U.S. ambassadors, federal judges, justices of the Texas Supreme Court and members of the Texas Legislature, among its notable alumni. In its law specialties rankings, U.S. News & World Report ranked Baylor Law's trial advocacy program as #4 in the nation. Baylor Law School is also ranked #55 in the magazine's 2017 edition of "America's Best Graduate Schools." The National Jurist ranks Baylor Law as one of the "Best School for Practical Training," and #4 in the nation in its most recent "Best Law School Facilities" listing. The Business Insider places Baylor Law among the top 50 law schools in the nation. Baylor Law School received the 2015 American Bar Association Pro Bono Publico Award, making it only the third law school in the nation to be honored with the award since the award's inception in 1984. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution, characterized as having "high research activity" by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. The University provides a vibrant campus community for approximately 16,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 80 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. Baylor sponsors 19 D1 varsity athletic teams and is a founding member of the Big XII Conference. Learn more at baylor.edu Are you looking for more News? All NewsArchives About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School