Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Teacher Education (BS) – Physical Ed – Education Track Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Teacher Education, Schl of In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Teacher Education B.S. - Physical Education program is appropriate for students interested in opportunities for employment with formal, K-12 schools that require certification. This Teacher Education B.S. - Physical Education program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CCIE-Teacher-Ed-BS.pdf Admission Requirements Complete the University General Education requirements or its equivalent, i.e., an AA degree from an approved Florida College System or State Univesity System institution. Have a minimum 2.5 overall GPA. Complete EDF 2005 - Introduction to the Teaching Profession with a minimum letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better. Meet the Gordon Rule Requirement. Meet the Foreign Language Admission Requirement. Pass all four parts of the General Knowledge Test (no alternatives or waivers are accepted). Degree Requirements Students should see an advisor prior to registering for classes. The courses designated in 1 (UCF General Education Program), 2 (Education Common Program Prerequisites), and 3 (Core Requirements: Basic Level) should be completed prior to admission to the major and upper division education courses. Education Track: This is a state-approved, initial teacher preparation program designed in compliance with Florida Statutes and State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.066. Degree requirements are subject to change based on state mandates. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Bilingual Kindergarten Teacher Counselor Education Professor Early Childhood Teacher Elementary School Teacher Grades 1 Thru 5 Teacher Head Start Teacher High School English Teacher High School French Teacher High School Math Teacher High School Teacher Kindergarten Teacher Middle School PE Teacher Nursery School Teacher Nursery Teacher Pre-K Teacher Pre-Kindergarten Teacher Primary Education Professor Science Education Professor Secondary Education Professor Special Education Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Teacher Education (BS) - Physical Ed - Education Track University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Teacher Education B.S. - Physical Education program is appropriate for students interested in opportunities for employment with formal, K-12 schools that require certification. This Teacher Education B.S. - Physical Education program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CCIE-Teacher-Ed-BS.pdf Admission Requirements Complete the University General Education requirements or its equivalent, i.e., an AA degree from an approved Florida College System or State Univesity System institution. Have a minimum 2.5 overall GPA. Complete EDF 2005 - Introduction to the Teaching Profession with a minimum letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better. Meet the Gordon Rule Requirement. Meet the Foreign Language Admission Requirement. Pass all four parts of the General Knowledge Test (no alternatives or waivers are accepted). Degree Requirements Students should see an advisor prior to registering for classes. The courses designated in 1 (UCF General Education Program), 2 (Education Common Program Prerequisites), and 3 (Core Requirements: Basic Level) should be completed prior to admission to the major and upper division education courses. Education Track: This is a state-approved, initial teacher preparation program designed in compliance with Florida Statutes and State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.066. Degree requirements are subject to change based on state mandates. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 17 Total Credits Complete all of the following A grade of "C-"(1.75) or better is required. BSC 2010C - Biology I (4) is required and may be completed in the GEP. Complete the following: ZOO3736C - Exercise Physiology Anatomy (4) ATR4132 - Human Injuries: Mechanisms & Prevention (3) PEO2011 - Team Sports (3) PEO2031 - Individual Sports (3) Earn at least 4 credits from the following types of courses: Elective Core Requirements: Advanced Level 0 Total Credits A grade of "C-"(1.75) or better is required. Education Core Requirements 12 Total Credits Complete all of the following EDG 4410 - Teaching Strategies and Classroom Management (3) and TSL 4080 - Theory and Practice of Teaching ESOL Students in Schools (3) are required prior to Internship I. Complete the following: EDG4410 - Teaching Strategies and Classroom Management (3) EDF4467 - Learning Theory and Assessment (3) TSL4080 - Theory and Practice of Teaching ESOL Students in Schools (3) RED4043 - Content Reading in Kindergarten through Grade 12 (3) Specialization Requirements 33 Total Credits Complete all of the following A grade of "C-"(1.75) or better is required. Complete the following: DAE3370 - Dance and Rhythmics (3) EEX4070 - Teaching Exceptional Students (3) PEO3041 - Games Analysis (3) PET4050C - Motor Development and Learning (3) PET4325 - Functional Kinesiology (3) PET3351 - Applied Exercise Physiology (3) PET4401 - Administration and Evaluation in Physical Education and Sport (3) PET4550C - Assessment and Evaluation in Kinesiology (3) PET3820 - Teaching Sports Skills I (3) PET3765 - Coaching Theory (3) Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: Elective Internship I Block 6 Total Credits Complete all of the following Prior to Internship I, the student must have completed EDG 4410, TSL 4080, all Common Program Prerequisites, all Core Requirements: Basic Level and at least 50% of all required specialization courses indicated above with a letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better. However, a minimum GPA of 2.5 is required in the education core, specialization and overall for admission to Internship I. Passing score on the General Knowledge Test portion of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE) is required before entry into Internship I. Passing score on the Professional Education Test portion of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE) is strongly recommended as soon as possible after completing the following courses: EDG 4410, EDF 4467, RED 4043, and TSL 4080. Students must apply and be approved for Internship I. Deadline dates and placement application are available through the Office of Clinical & Field Experiences at https://ccie.ucf.edu/clinicalexp/. A fee may be required as part of the placement application process. PET 4710 is taken concurrently with ESE 3940 - Internship I - Secondary Complete the following: PET4710 - Methods for Physical Activity for Children and Adolescents (3) Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: ESE 3940 Internship I - Secondary Internship II Block 10 - 15 Total Credits Complete all of the following At least 80% of all required specialization courses and all education/methods courses must be completed with a letter grade of "C-" (1.75) or better before admission to Internship II. However, a minimum GPA of 2.5 is required in the education core, specialization and overall for admission to Internship II. Passing scores on all sections [General Knowledge,Professional, and Subject Area (Physical Education K-12)] of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE) are required prior to admission into Internship II. Students must apply and be approved for Internship II. Deadline dates and placement application are available through the Office of Clinical & Field Experiences at https://ccie.ucf.edu/clinicalexp/. A fee may be required as part of the placement application process. Satisfactory completion of Internship II requires the student to demonstrate proficiency in all Florida Educator Accomplished Practices in accordance with State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.066. Complete the following: ESE4943 - Internship II - Secondary (7 - 12) ESE4033C - Critical Issues and Trends in Secondary Education (3) Grand Total Credits: 78 - 83 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida