Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Events BusinessFeed PR & Media Relations Programs Full-Time MBA Executive MBA PhD in Management Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Centers & Institutes Administrative Science Quarterly Careers For Recruiters Career Management Employment Reports Alumni Alumni Stay In Touch Leadership & Recognition Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form MPS in Management – Accounting Specialization Home Programs MPS in Management – Accounting Specialization Invest one year of your time in this STEM-designated program to become an expert and leader in accounting The STEM-designated MPS in Management – Accounting Specialization program prepares students to take the CPA exam and to become successful leaders and managers in the field of accounting. What makes the MPS in Management – Accounting Specialization program unique? An accelerated accounting curriculum that will provide you with the accounting and business expertise necessary to stand out and lead. Johnson’s STEM-designated MPS in Management – Accounting Specialization program is differentiated by its flexibility, both in the entry requirements and the type of accounting and management electives available through the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business, allowing our students to customize their experience based on their areas and industries of interest. Play video about "Beyond Accounting" Beyond Accounting Recent alumni tell how the MPS in Management – Accounting Specialization prepared them for a career beyond just accounting. A new kind of accounting curriculum The MPS Management – Accounting Specialization STEM-designated degree program provides the ideal curriculum combination of core and electives by allowing students to complement a complete and rigorous technical accounting core with the depth and range of graduate electives of one of the world’s top MBA programs. This innovative program allows students to immerse themselves in industries like public accounting, financial services, real estate, or consulting and develop the professional skills necessary for success. The MPS in Management – Accounting Specialization program not only prepares students for their first job, but also for the career progression necessary to achieve their goals. World-renowned faculty and a hands-on approach Students in the MPS in Management – Accounting Specialization program learn from premier research and practitioner-focused faculty from Johnson, Dyson School, and Nolan School at the picturesque Cornell University campus, located in Ithaca, New York. Our faculty not only teach, but engage with their students and present real business problems that need solving. In addition to focusing on the fundamentals of accounting, our programming provides students with a broader quantitative and qualitative skill set, which enables students to analyze and communicate results with a greater understanding of the various strategic implications of their work. This approach allows our graduates to provide clients with an unparalleled, “value-added” service that sets them apart from their competitors. Intimate, personalized classes and the Johnson community Our faculty and resources set the MPS in Management – Accounting Specialization apart from other accounting programs. Each student in the program will receive a customized, faculty-advisor-approved academic plan that outlines their career objectives and assures that those objectives can be met with the courses selected in the program. Here, faculty truly care about their students and mentor and support them in meeting their career objectives. In addition, all students benefits from the extensive resources that comes with being a part of the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business. This means that students can take classes from any of the three schools that make up the college, as well as partake in a number of clubs, events, and activities. Upon graduation, MPS in Management – Accounting Specialization students will join our comprehensive and powerful alumni network. MPS in Management-Accounting Specialization Events There are no events to display. MPS in Management - Accounting Specialization BusinessFeed September 27, 2019 Lessons learned: Recruitment tips from MPS in Management – Accounting alumni Now with careers in the accounting field, MPS in Management – Accounting alumni share tips for current students during recruitment season. May 24, 2019 Johnson recognizes 2019 award winners across nine academic programs Several students across Johnson’s seven MBA programs and two MPS programs were recognized for their achievements, contributions, and academic performance. May 14, 2019 Interdisciplinary work is the new frontier, and Cornell is leading the way As part of the practicum he participated in, Angus J. McKenzie, MPS ’19, provided services to low-income taxpayers from diverse communities. Student Profiles “Until you experience Cornell, it is hard to understand the opportunities that come from it. The Cornell network is so vast and international, you always have Cornellians who have your back.” — Maria A. Lopez “I was able to expand my horizons not only in accounting, but also in finance and management, and really build my network. I’m looking forward to being a young professional with the skills I obtained from Cornell’s MPS program.” — Charles Mauser The MPS in Management – Accounting Specialization’s class composition includes students with a wide variety of experiences, academic backgrounds, and career goals. Read what makes this program unique directly from our students. Explore student profiles Are you a good fit for the MPS in Management - Accounting Specialization program? The MPS in Management – Accounting Specialization curriculum is best suited for those looking to master accounting or those early in their careers and looking to transition into accounting from another business field, with some accounting experience. Students accepted into the program must meet the following prerequisites: For Cornell students: Completion of Bachelor’s Degree from Dyson or Nolan School and Intermediate Accounting I -or- The Cornell Undergraduate Business Minor and Intermediate Accounting I GMAT (preferred) / GRE (accepted)* For students outside of Cornell: Completion of Bachelor’s Degree Coursework will be evaluated to determine equivalency to the Cornell Business Minor (must include Financial Accounting, Finance, Economics, Marketing, Management, Statistics, and Intermediate Accounting I) GMAT (preferred) / GRE (accepted) *For Cornelians who graduated with a business minor in the last 2 years, application fee and testing will be waived with achievement of a minimum undergraduate cumulative GPA. Ready to take your career to the next level? Admissions quick links: Application guide Tuition and funding Learn more about the program Application deadlines for the MPS in Management – Accounting Specialization program: Applicants must submit all application components by the application deadline listed for each round in order to be considered in that round. Incomplete applications will not be reviewed. Round One: December 1 Round Two: January 15 Round Three: March 1 Round Four: April 15 After round deadlines, applications will be received and reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Open Sidebar Menu Secondary Navigation MPS in Management – Accounting Specialization FAQs Prerequisites Application Guide Curriculum Our Director Faculty Tuition and Funding Student Profiles Cornell Connections Careers MPS in Management – Accounting Virtual Visit Request Information Apply Now Quick Links Directory Visit Library News Articles & Features Information For Corporations Recruiters PR & Media Relations Cornell Community Site Info sitefeedback@johnson.cornell.edu Privacy Notice Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Sage Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 800-847-2082 (US and Canada) 607-255-4526 mba@johnson.cornell.edu emba@cornell.edu gradadmissions@business.cornell.edu Faculty, Staff & Students LaunchPad JConnect – Students Campus Groups Faculty & Staff Intranet Webmail Publications Cornell Enterprise Magazine Administrative Science Quarterly SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson The Latest COVID-19: Insights from our experts Make a Gift © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell Johnson Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.