Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology School of Interactive Computing Menu Close About What is Interactive Computing? Facts & Rankings Buildings & Facilities Faculty Hiring Contact Us About Atlanta People Faculty Staff Academics MS Programs PhD Programs Advising Admissions & Financial Aid Distance Learning International Study GT Computing Student Life Your Life Here Admissions & Financial Aid Distance Learning International Study Research Research Areas Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Geometry, Graphics & Animation Human-Centered Computing & Cognitive Science Information Visualization & Visual Analytics Robotics & Computational Perception Social Computing & Computational Journalism Ubiquitous & Wearable Computing Virtual & Augmented Environments Labs & Groups Centers & Initiatives News & Events Upcoming Events Calendar News Podcasts Contact Support Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Research Research Areas Virtual & Augmented Environments Three-dimensional, virtual worlds are an increasingly important part of our interactions with computers, from the highly realistic and fully synthetic worlds of modern video games, to augmented reality systems that overlay 3D content on our view of the physical world around us. Research into virtual incorporates most aspects of computing, especially computer graphics, human-centered computing and computer vision. In the College of Computing, we are particularly interested in how virtual environments are designed, built and used. Examples of virtual and augmented environments research include: Augmented reality games. How do we design compelling multiple games that create new kinds of social experiences for their players? Mobile augmented reality interfaces. How do we present 3D information to mobile users, and how do they make sense of it, organize it and interact with it? Mixed-reality environments for distributed collaboration. Can a combination of virtual worlds and mixed reality serve as a foundation for new approaches to heterogeneous distributed collaboration? Natural interaction. By capturing human motion, can we develop more natural and intuitive forms of interaction with 3D worlds and games? Visual coherence. Can both photorealistic and non-photorealistic graphics algorithms be developed that seamlessly blend virtual content with our view of the physical world? Coordinator: Blair MacIntyre Blair MacIntyre Professor Personal Webpage Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Computing Resources Communications Finance Office of the Dean Technology Services Organization (TSO) College of Computing Schools School of Computational Science and Engineering School of Computer Science School of Interactive Computing Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Report a Problem Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology