CAPS: Counseling and Psychological Services - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving CAPS The Latest Updates on COVID-19 Latest News Tele-health Options Continue Visiting CAPS for the 1st time? No appointment is needed. Between 10am and 4pm, weekdays call 713-743-5454 for a tele-health session or go in-person to our office in H2. May is Mental Health Awareness Month Help us spread the word that taking care of your mental health is an important component of your total well-being. Rainbow Wellness Group Interested in joing a discussion group for LGBTQIA+ identified UH Students? Complete the interest form to get more information. Sista Circle: Black Grads Group Summer Dates Are you a Black woman in a UH Grad or professional program trying to manage different roles & looking for support with balancing expectations? Join the conversation. Subscribe to our semester newsletter to stay up-to-date on engagement opportunities, events, and related news. Latest Newsletter Subscribe INFORMATION FOR Students Parents & Loved Ones Faculty & Staff Office Visit (Triage) 4349 Martin Luther King Blvd., Health 2 Building, Rm. 2005 Houston, TX 77204 Mailing Address Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) 4365 Cougar Village Dr. Student Services Center 1 (SSC1), Rm. 226 Houston, TX 77204-3026 Twitter Facebook Instagram WELCOME Counseling and Psychological Services is here to help you on your journey to living life to the fullest. While some amount of stress, sadness, and anxiety is a normal part of life, we can all find ourselves in a place where we need a little bit of professional help to regain our balance, feel more at peace with ourselves, and feel more in control of our lives. At CAPS we don’t believe in a one-size-fits-all approach to mental health. Different people need different things at different times. We offer a dynamic array of services intended to meet your needs where you are. From short-term individual and couples counseling to workshops, group therapy, and Single Session Therapy (SST), CAPS is always looking to find the solution that best meets your needs. As a generalist counseling center that specializes in shorter term counseling options, we may sometimes recommend that you seek specialized or longer term therapy options in the community. If this is the case we will help you get connected to other resources or treatment options that can better meet your needs. QUICK LINKS If You or Someone You Know is in Crisis First Visit (Triage) Office Hours Let's Talk Outreach Requests Subscribe to the CAPS newsletter Ways to Connect with CAPS 24/7 Crisis Services If you or a UH community member needs mental health crisis support please call 713-743-5454 anytime. If you have a life-threatening emergency, dial 911. First (Triage) Visit Call 713-743-5454 or visit CAPS at Health 2 between 10am and 4pm. We will work with you to come up with a plan for change that capitalizes on resources and matches you with a service to address your needs. Let's Talk CAPS clinicians provide brief and focused mental health consulation for in the moment concerns. Get connected by joining our zoom or see our complete list of times and locations by vising our Let's Talk page. Outreach Request Form Request a CAPS representative to deliever a presentation, host a workshop or attend an event. Contact CAPS Business Hours 8am-5pm, Please call 713-743-5454, Follow us on social media Instagram and on Twitter. Are you ready to take the first step? How do I schedule an appointment? CAPS has triage hours from 10:00 am - 4:00 pm Monday through Friday. Give us a call and we will connect you to an available CAPS counselor who will talk with you, hear your concerns, and help determine what service is most likely to address your needs. If CAPS is not able to meet your specific needs, we will work with you to connect you to a provider that can. Read more about how to initiate services. Not Sure You Need Counseling? Chat with a CAPS Clinician during our Let's Talk time, Monday - Friday. Read more about our Let's Talk Program. CAPS Crisis Information If you are experiencing a life-threatening emergency, please dial 911. CAPS is available 24/7 at 713.743.5454. If you are experiencing a crisis situation and need to speak with a counselor, you may call us during business hours. If it is after business hours, please follow the prompts to be connected to the after-hours counselor on call. Outreach Let's Talk “Let's Talk” is a program that provides easy access to informal confidential consultations with therapists from Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). CAPS therapists hold weekly walk-in hours at various sites around campus during the fall and spring semesters. There is no appointment or fee necessary. Program Information QPR Suicide Prevention QPR, which stands for "Question, Persuade, Refer", is a nationally recognized suicide prevention program designed to educate persons to recognize and respond to the signs of suicidal thinking or behavior. CAPS offers QPR workshops throughout the semester. Workshop Schedule CAPS Liaisons Each CAPS staff member has an on-going liaison relationship with a college, department, and/or student organization at UH. This liaison relationship helps to bridge the gap between CAPS services and the campus community by providing education and consultation regarding students facing mental health issues. View CAPS Liaisons Facebook Twitter Instagram Follow Us on Social Media Tweets by the CAPS University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies