COVID-19 UH Updates skip to Main Content Campuses dropdown menu column 1 Overviews Universities Mānoa Hilo West Oʻahu column 2 Community Colleges Hawaiʻi Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi Leeward Maui Windward column 3 Distance Learning UH Education Centers Continuing Education Community Colleges Attend dropdown menu column 1 Overview Degrees and Programs column 2 Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition UH System dropdown menu column 1 About UH Strategic Directions Policies and Procedures Title IX column 2 Leadership Board of Regents System Offices A-Z Stewardship of Maunakea column 3 UH News Emergency Post-Pandemic Hawaiʻi and UH column 4 Support UH UH Foundation UH Alumni Relations Make a Gift Kapi‘olani Community College: At a Glance UH System » Campuses » Kapi‘olani Students in the culinary arts program at Kapiʻolani Community College are at the epicenter for culinary innovation in Hawaiʻi. On the slopes of Diamond Head, just minutes from Waikīkī, Kapiʻolani Community College is home to the Culinary Institute of the Pacific and programs in business, hospitality, health, legal education and arts and sciences. Apply today. Areas of Excellence Education Besides the highly successful liberal arts program, Kapiʻolani Community College is also known for strong technical, occupational and professional programs. National Recognition Programs including culinary studies, health sciences, emergency medical services and STEM have received national recognition. Location On the slopes of the world-famous Diamond Head Crater, Kapiʻolani Community College is minutes away from the beach, Waikīkī and downtown Honolulu. Outreach Kapiʻolani Community College offers a large variety of non-credit programs, many of which are customized and developed in innovative ways to serve Hawaiʻi’s workforce needs. Apply: Kapiʻolani Community College Admissions Pay for college Fast Facts Kapiʻolani Community College Degrees and Programs Certificates: 27 Certificates, Univ: 3 Associate degrees: 19 Enrollment Undergraduate: 6,100 Student to Faculty Ratio* 17:1 * fall 2018 Age and Gender* Average age: 25.4 years old Men: 40.7% Women: 59.3% * full-time students Enrollment Status Full-time: 26.5% Part-time: 73.5% Pell Grant Recipients* 36% * of eligible, full-time students awarded Fall 2020 Student Diversity (full-time students) Residency Figures from the Institutional Research, Analysis Office & Planning, Fall 2021. Kapi‘olani Community College News Students explain value, opportunities at UH Community Colleges Hurricane season ‘22 could see few cyclones, forecasters say Hawaiian Word of the Week: Holu 2022 legislative recap: Key takeaways, budget breakdown Face masks required indoors on UH campuses and properties Featured video: Kapiʻolani CC campus news and events Contact Information and Location Kapiʻolani Community College 4303 Diamond Head Road Honolulu, HI 96816 (808) 734-9000 (808) 734-9555 Directions and map to Kapiʻolani Community College campus. Kapiʻolani CC Admissions Need more info? MyUH Services for new and prospective Kapiʻolani students. Last modified: April 22, 2022 Changing lives through higher education. Apply Now Universities Mānoa Hilo West Oʻahu Community Colleges Hawaiʻi Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi Leeward Maui Windward UH Athletics UH Mānoa Hilo Vulcans Support UH UH Alumni Relations UH Foundation Our Ten Campuses UH Mānoa, UH Hilo, UH West Oʻahu, Hawaiʻi CC, Honolulu CC, Kapiʻolani CC, Kauaʻi CC, Leeward CC, Maui College, Windward CC and selected education centers are located across the Hawaiian Islands. Choose from the list to get more information on each campus. Click on map to enlarge. 2444 Dole Street Honolulu, HI 96822 An equal opportunity/ affirmative action institution Use of this site implies consent with our Usage Policy copyright © 2022 University of Hawaiʻi Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr YouTube Contact UH If required, information contained on this website can be made available in an alternative format upon request. Get Adobe Acrobat Reader Calendar Directory Emergency Information MyUH Privacy Statement Work at UH About UH Attend Campuses Degrees and Programs Leadership Offices Back To Top Submit