Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Students Contact your Advisor Advising Resources and Tools Transfer Credit Home Overview and Checklist Types of Transfer Credit Transfer Equivalency Database Credit Evaluation Forms Transfer Articulation Agreements Accreditation for Transfer Credit COVID-19 FAQs for Credit Evaluation College Credit Plus Home CCP Admission Requirements Apply to CCP Academic Advising Textbooks & Supplies High School Partnerships FAQ Contact 15 to Finish Students FAQ Resources For Advisors UC Advising Conference About Organization Advising Strategic Plan Assessment Home CCP Admission Requirements Apply to CCP Academic Advising Textbooks & Supplies High School Partnerships FAQ Contact Home College Credit Plus FAQ FAQ Are CCP students eligible for Study Abroad Programs? No. CCP students are not permitted to participate in study abroad programs as they are beyond the scope of this program. Are CCP Students eligible for on-campus housing? No. Students enrolled in CCP or other similar dual-enrollment programs are not eligible for University on-campus housing. How do I submit my ACT or SAT Scores? UC CCP requires official copies of standardized test scores sent directly from the testing agency. We do not accept copies of scores on high school transcripts. Students may request scores to be sent to the University of Cincinnati by visiting Collegeboard (for SAT scores) and/or ACT's website (for ACT scores). Please visit our CCP Admissions Requirement page for information regarding application requirements for on or off campus participation. How do I submit my high school transcripts for CCP? Please visit our CCP Admissions Requirement page for instructions on how to submit CCP application materials. Where can I find non-public and homeschool funding eligibility and application information? For information regarding CCP funding eligibility and application for non-public and homeschool students, please visit the state’s website by clicking here. Students should apply for the full number of credit hours’ worth of funding they will need for the entire year. For example, Chemistry 1 and lab in Fall Semester plus Chemistry 2 and lab in Spring Semester equals a total request of 10 credit hours. Funding awards are made for the entire CCP academic year (Summer, Fall, and Spring Semesters). Funding application requires two important steps: Creation of a OH|ID (formerly SAFE) account. Submitting an application for CCP tuition funding by the posted deadline. How will my CCP credits transfer? If you are a non-UC CCP student and you plan to attend UC, please fill out an information form by clicking here and an advisor will contact you within 24-48 business hours. If you are a UC CCP student, please contact your academic advisor Jamie Solomon with any credit transfer questions. If you are an incoming student and you’ve already attended orientation, please contact your home college advisor. If you plan to attend college outside of UC, please contact a representative from the institution you plan to attend. State that you are interested in applying and ask how the course(s) in question will transfer and apply toward your intended degree. How do I get a copy of my UC College transcript? If you completed your CCP coursework at UC and you plan to attend UC, you do not need to send a transcript. If you plan to attend college elsewhere and you need an official UC transcript, you will need to access your Catalyst Portal. Transcripts can be ordered on the “My Academics” page under “Grades/Transcript/Enroll Cert.” For any logon assistance, including retrieving your 6+2 Central Logon Username and password, please contact UCIT Helpdesk at (513)556-4357. If I am a UC CCP student, do I still have to apply as an undergraduate student to attend UC after graduating High School? Yes. All CCP students must apply to UC Undergraduate Admissions as a first-time freshman student. Participating in UC CCP does not guarantee automatic admission into any degree program at the University of Cincinnati. If I was a CCP student at UC, do I have to attend freshmen/Bearcats Bound Orientation? Yes. All incoming freshmen, including former CCP students, are required to attend orientation. There are no exceptions to this rule. Office of Advising & Academic Services 2618 McMicken Circle University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221-0202 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.