Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Church 21 Menu Main Nav C21 Engage Back Back Close About Overview Focal Issues Meet the Team Committees Contact Publications Overview C21 Resources Issues C21 Book Series Programs Overview C21 Student Voices Project Agape Latte Agape Latte Valentines Breakfast with God Episcopal Visitor Program Espresso Your Faith Week C21 Speaker Series Women Religious The Catholic Intellectual Tradition GodPods A Conversation with Bishop William D. Byrne Faith Feeds Attend a Faith Feeds Event Host your own Faith Feeds Event Faith Feeds for Catholic Educators Advent Faith Feeds Breakfast with God Attend a Breakfast with God Event Host Your Own Breakfast with God Event Learn More About Breakfast with God C21 Advent Resources Along the Way: An Online Lenten Retreat A Conversation with Dan Cellucci Student Voices Project: For a Synodal Church Pray It Forward Videos & Podcasts Events Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Programs Agape Latte Agape Latte Agape Latte is a national faith storytelling series founded at Boston College by the C21 Center and Campus Ministry. Through the Agape Latte college and high school Partnership Program, Agape Latte has now spread to over 50 campuses nationwide. Featured Videos How I Got My Joy Back Lavette Scott-Smith Lavette Scott-Smith, Boston College IT Training and Events Specialist, shares her story about getting her joy back after losing her mom. How do you fall in love with your life? Melodie Wyttenbach Melodie Wyttenbach, director of the Boston College Roche Center for Catholic Education, shares her story about falling in love with her life and discovering her calling when she was in college. It's a Wonderful Life Karen Kiefer Karen Kiefer, director of the C21 Center and Agape Latte, shares her story about guardian angels, unwrapping our worth, and celebrating that 'It's a Wonderful Life'. 'Where do I belong?' My family's immigration story. Fr. Quang Tran, S.J. Fr. Quang Tran, S.J. called New Orleans home after his family emigrated from Vietnam. He shares how his family history and shared stories helped him to find home wherever he went. Pay Attention to the Possibilities Fr. Pat Nolan, S.J. How did Fr. Pat Nolan, S.J. decide to leave his career path in the sports marketing industry in New York to become a Jesuit? He shares his story of how paying attention to the possibilities in front of him changed the course of his life. Agape Latte Back To Top Back To Top C21 Center Heffernan House 110 College Road Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-0470 church21@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube The Church in the 21st Century (C21) Center at Boston College is a catalyst and resource for the renewal of the Catholic Church in the United States. Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College