Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller MBA Commitment To Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Home » Programs » MBA » Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Menu MBA Full-time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta At the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, we see diversity of backgrounds and perspectives as essential to learning, discovery, and creation. We strive to build an inclusive and equitable MBA community where people of all backgrounds have the opportunity to learn and contribute to our mission. At Scheller, we embrace and leverage diversity in all its manifestations. Our goal is to continue to build a campus culture of collegiality, close collaboration, global perspective, intercultural sensitivity, respect, and thoughtful interaction among a diverse community of students, employees, and alumni. Our mission to achieve inclusive excellence means unleashing the full potential of Scheller's human capacity to create a better, sustainable future for us all. You are invited to join us on the journey of creating a future that builds upon the talents of all members of our community in addressing the major challenges of this and future generations. Diversity in all of its forms is one of Georgia Tech's greatest strengths. We are committed to creating a culture of 'inclusive excellence' at the Scheller College where all individuals feel invested and engaged in our business school's mission. Dean Maryam Alavi Diversity at Scheller College Women Partner organizations Forté Scheller is a member of Forté, a non-profit working to launch women into successful and significant careers. Forté's agenda builds on its founding commitment to increase the number of women in the early business pipeline, and creates partnerships with academic and advocacy groups, as well as its own sponsors, to attract and retain women in business careers. Women can join Forté for free to gain access to business education, role models, professional networks, and leadership training. Women in Technology Scheller is connected with women leaders in technology through its partnership with Women in Technology (WIT). For more than 20 years, WIT has been striving to progress the role of women in the tech industry and to advocate for STEM education opportunities for girls. The organization's work advances women in technology — from the classroom to the boardroom — by providing advocacy, leadership development, networking, mentoring, and technology education. Scheller clubs Women in Business Women in Business is a student-led organization that supports and empowers Scheller MBAs to become successful leaders through social activities, professional development events and networking opportunities. Fellowships Forté Fellowship Scheller is a participating partner school for Forté Fellowships, which are prestigious, competitive awards for those who exhibit exemplary leadership, represent diverse backgrounds, and demonstrate a commitment to advancing women in business. To date, Forté partner schools have awarded $277 million to more than 11,000 Forté Fellows. Please direct questions about this fellowship to Full-time MBA admissions team members. U.S. Underrepresented Minorities Partner organizations FOCUS Focus is a program that raises awareness of graduate education to underrepresented minority students. It is designed to attract the best and brightest students across the nation and encourage them to pursue graduate degrees at Georgia Tech. Current third- and fourth-year undergraduate students are invited to apply to participate in this program, which gives participants an opportunity to visit Scheller, obtain assistance with the application process, and gain insight into financial resources. Management Leadership for Tomorrow Scheller is a proud member of Management Leadership for Tomorrow (MLT), a distinguished nonprofit organization dedicated to empowering African Americans, Latinos, and Native Americans with the skills, coaching, and connections they need to lead organizations and communities worldwide. MLT helps partner schools better reflect the rich diversity of the global business community by providing unique insights, actionable strategies, and access to the best pool of diverse MBA candidates. National Black MBA Association Scheller supports the mission of the National Black MBA Association (NBMBAA), which is comprised of minority MBAs, business professionals, and other MBA students. Each year, a large number of Scheller students attend the National Black MBA Conference, one of the largest professional development and job recruitment events in the nation, attracting more than 9,000 attendees. Scheller provides support and preparation services to our students attending the conference both before and during the conference, including conducting practice interviews, hosting workshops on conference management, and engaging alumni as industry experts. Prospanica Scheller is a proud university partner of Prospanica, an organization dedicated to empowering and enabling Hispanic MBAs and business professionals to achieve their full educational, economic, and social potential. Prospanica creates alliances with universities for Hispanic scholars interested in higher education through awarded tuition. Scheller clubs Blacks in Business Blacks in Business is dedicated to the academic, professional, and personal development of its members. The organization welcomes all Georgia Tech students who support its goals. Its mission is to promote the advancement of all Blacks in Business members through providing quality resources that foster the successful leadership progression. Fellowships National Black MBA Association Fellowship NBMBAA has partnered with top colleges and universities around the country to provide increased opportunities in the form of knowledge, resources, scholarships and more. Approximately $2 million in scholarships was awarded on behalf of corporate and collegiate partners to members in 2020. Please direct questions about this fellowship to Full-time MBA admissions team members. Prospanica Fellowship The University Partnership Program (UPP) consists of nearly 30 colleges and universities throughout the country working together to help qualified Hispanic students achieve their higher education goals. The Prospanica’s UPP has provided financial assistance to Hispanic students since 2004 and has awarded more than $7 million since the inception of the program. Please direct questions about this fellowship to Full-time MBA admissions team members. René A Simon Fellowship The Rene A. Simon Fellowship was created in 2020 by Evening MBA alumnus Rene A. Simon. The fellowship is awarded to one MBA student each year, with preference given to qualified African American students with demonstrated financial need. Further preference is given to students who are members of the Blacks in Business organization. Please direct questions about this fellowship to Full-time or Evening MBA admissions team members. International Students Scheller clubs International Committee Georgia Tech is a global institution that thrives on the contributions of its diverse student population. This student-led club celebrates international heritage, provides an opportunity for students to connect with other international Scheller community members, and introduces all MBA students to cultures and traditions from around the world. Veterans Scheller clubs Scheller Veterans Club At Scheller, we value the leadership and problem-solving abilities that military service men and women bring to our MBA programs. The Scheller Veterans Club is a student-led group is committed to assisting transitioning service members and veterans who are interested in pursuing an MBA. The club is committed to helping veterans, along with active duty and reserve personnel, develop the skills and network needed to succeed. Read more about our Georgia Tech Military Connection LGBTQIA+ Partner organizations Reaching Out MBA Reaching Out MBA (ROMBA) empowers LGBTQIA+ MBA students to become professionals who will lead the way to equality in business and society. Through its programming, anchored by its annual conference, ROMBA inspires and enables students, educates about the opportunities and challenges of being an LGBTQIA+ business leader, and helps students build connections among each other. Scheller clubs Scheller Pride Scheller Pride is a club for LGBTQIA students and allies to provide a supportive environment that will enhance the social, academic, and career experiences of current and future prospective LGBTQIA students, allies, and partners at Scheller College. The club establishes relationships and fosters dialogue with employers and alumni who value a diverse workplace and strive to equip future business leaders to be advocates in the workplace. Fellowships Reaching Out MBA Fellowship The ROMBA LGBT+ Fellowship is a joint effort between prominent business school programs and the Reaching Out MBA organization to develop the out LGBT+ and active ally business leaders of tomorrow. Each Fellow receives a minimum $20,000 scholarship and access to exclusive leadership programming including an all-expenses-paid retreat. Please direct questions about this fellowship to Full-time or Evening MBA admissions team members. Georgia Tech Resources and Policies Institute Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Institute Commitment to Diversity Policies Take action Request More Info Attend an Info Session Which MBA is right for you? Find out which program best suits your needs based on your personal and professional situation. Learn more #3 Best MBA Graduates for Innovation and Creativity Bloomberg Businessweek, 2020 Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures