Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Board of Trustees Operating Manual of the Board of Trustees at Clemson University Welcome to the Operating Manual of the Board of Trustees at Clemson University. We hope you will find this to be a useful tool to learn about Clemson University and its Board of Trustees. If you would like to browse through the manual, the links provided here give access to the various chapters and appendices. Chapter I – Purpose of the Manual Chapter II – History Chapter III – Mission, Vision and Goals A. Mission B. Vision C. Values D. Strategic Priorities Chapter IV – Role of the Board of Trustees A. Basic Concepts B. Means of Control C. Policy Control Chapter V – Organization and Operating Rules of the Board of Trustees A. Statutory Authority and Composition of the Board B. Officers of the Board C. Board Meetings D. Standing Committees Chapter VI – Delegations of Authority A. General Delegations of Authority B. General Delegations of Authority to the President C. Authority Retained by the Board Chapter VII – Internal Auditing Division Chapter VIII – Conflict of Interest Policy Chapter IX – Selection, Duties and Evaluation of the President A. Selection of the President B. Duties of the President C. Evaluation of the President Appendix A – University Governance Appendix B – Last Will and Codicil of Thomas Green Clemson Appendix C – General Assembly Act of Acceptance Appendix D – Trustee Selection Process Appendix E – Trustee Code of Conduct and Responsibilities Appendix F – Desirable Criteria for Trustees Appendix G – Standing Committees A. Agriculture & Natural Resources Committee B. Compensation Committee C. Educational Policy Committee D. Executive & Audit Committee E. Finance & Facilities Committee F. Institutional Advancement Committee G. Research and Economic Development Committee H. Student Affairs Committee Appendix H – Organizational Chart Appendix I – Agency Head Performance Evaluation Home Award for Excellence Clemson Medallion Committees Manual Members Minutes Policies Values Statement Contact Us Task Forces History of Clemson Related Links University President University Provost Board of Trustees Board of Visitors Diversity and Inclusion Faculty Senate Staff Senate University Reports Accountability Report Clemson University Security and Fire Safety Report ClemsonForward Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram