Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Give Featured Projects Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Featured Projects We are dedicated to supporting projects of both global and local importance. Donate Now. C3 Fund The Columbia Center for Infection and Immunity Coronavirus (C3) fund enables the development and scaling-up of cutting-edge diagnostic, serology (antibody) and therapeutic tools the world urgently needs to advance understanding of, and response to, coronaviruses. Pandemic Impact Our School has established the Pandemic Impact Fund to provide immediate financial support that enables our researchers to quickly respond to pandemics, starting with the current COVID-19 pandemic. Climate and Health Looking ahead, one of society’s greatest challenges will be sustaining population health in the face of climate change. Food Policy The causes of obesity are myriad, but effective food policies at the federal, state, and local levels offer one critical solution. Urban Health Effective cities create healthy opportunities for the old and the young, ensure access to services and the benefits of urban life, promote equity, and achieve environmental sustainability. Corporate Partnerships We forge collaborations between companies and Columbia Mailman’s award-winning researchers to deliver cutting-edge translational research and solutions that meet critical business needs. Close Sign up for Transmission Interested in changing the world? Apply Today Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers