Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Global Studies Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Global Studies Major Apply Visit Request More Info Global Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Global Studies Develop a broad and sophisticated understanding of global changes, cultures and perspectives with the Bachelor of Arts in Global Studies program in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This rigorous, interdisciplinary, 123-credit undergraduate program prepares students for the international workforce through its emphasis on global cultures, global economy and global security. The Global Studies Major draws from over a dozen fields of study, and it prioritizes a strong foundation in foreign language studies, with opportunities for you to intern and study abroad. Students are required to complete four levels of a foreign language, giving them a competitive edge when pursuing global professions. Through the Global Studies curriculum, learn to analyze international problems and communicate ideas effectively. Study the complex global issues shaping our world, using tools from a variety of disciplines in the humanities and social sciences. Graduates are well equipped to pursue international careers, and collaborate across and within foreign countries. Concentrations All students in the Global Studies Major declare a concentration in either Global Cultures, Global Economy or Global Security. Global Cultures Examine the interaction of global and local cultures from the European imperialism of the 19th century, through the spread of Americanization in the 20th century, to the digital world of the 21st century. This concentration draws on courses from a wide list of options in anthropology, film, history, literature, religion and sociology. View Concentration Details Global Economy Examine the evolution of cooperation among states in managing the global economy, and the role of history, politics and technology in shaping international, national and local relations. View Concentration Details Global Security Access dozens of courses from multiple disciplines, including anthropology, criminal justice, geography, history and political science, in order to understand the causes of war, security strategies of states and the rise of new and challenging security threats in a constantly changing global environment. View Concentration Details Classes & Curriculum Global Studies BA students take the following foundational courses. Introduction to Global Studies Global Connections International Politics Macroeconomic Principles Required and elective courses will vary, depending on which concentration you choose. The program culminates with a research-based and writing-intensive capstone seminar. Learn more about Global Studies Major courses. Related Graduate Degrees Anthropology PhD Applied Sociology PSM Business Administration MBA* Criminal Justice MA Economics MA Geography and Urban Studies MA History MA Political Science MA Public Policy MPP Religion MA Certificate Programs The College of Liberal Arts has 22 undergraduate certificate programs for you to expand your knowledge and diversify your Temple education. Certificates can complement bachelor's programs, allowing you to specialize in an area and highlight your exposure to disciplines outside of your major. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For questions regarding the Global Studies Major, contact the following staff member. Danielle K. Scherer is the assistant director of the Global Studies program. Phone: 215-204-4283 Email: danielle.scherer@temple.edu The following staff member leads the Global Studies program. Sanjoy Chakravorty is the director of the Global Studies program. Email: sanjoy@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interest, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experience. The Global Studies Society provides educational and professional development for students and the opportunity to build a social network to support them throughout their career. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. All Global Studies students are strongly encouraged to study abroad as part of the program’s Regional Enrichment requirement, and our advisors will work with you to directly identify the study abroad option that best fits with your academic interests, career path and foreign language choices. A limited number of Global Scholar Grants are awarded annually based on merit and need. The Global Scholar Grant is intended for Global Studies majors who study abroad for at least six weeks and take at least six credits. Awards include up to $1,500 for summer programs, up to $3,000 for a semester abroad and up to $5,000 for an academic year abroad. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-GBST-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Global Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info