Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Sex 101 SHAG! What is SHAG? The Sexual Health Awareness Group (SHAG) is a peer education program from Health Promotion. SHAG is comprised of Brown students who promote sexual health on campus through workshops, a confidential texting Q&A response service (if you are a Brown student, click here for the texting number), and other outreach projects. SHAG is also on Facebook and Instagram! Can I really ask SHAG anything? Yes! SHAG is now offering personalized, confidential answers to students' sexual health and safer sex questions via text. Responses from our trained peer educators within 24 hours! If you are a Brown student, click here for the texting number. How do I schedule a SHAG program? SHAG is available to present sexual health workshops to Brown students. All workshops are fun, informative and interactive and address a range of pertinent sexual health issues including safer sex, STIs, and protection methods. Choose from the following formats: Sex Trivia Test your knowledge of all things sex, with trivia challenge categories including Pop Culture, Risky Business, History of Sex, and Philias, Phobias and Phetishes. Friendly competition, surprising factoids, and plenty of safer sex prizes make for a super fun (and informative) program. Sex Jeopardy Think you’re a sexpert? Looking to learn more about safer sex? This competitive game provides you with information on contraception and STI protection that will help you make healthy choices. Safer Sex Express This hands-on interactive workshop gives students the opportunity to learn about safer sex methods by moving between "stations" where they explore a method through discussion and experiments. E-mail [email protected] or [email protected] for more information or to schedule a program. Or use the workshop request form here. What is the role of a SHAG peer educator? Peer Educators are trained in current sexual health knowledge and effective approaches to sexual health education. You will have the opportunity to learn valuable facilitation skills, develop expertise in a range of sexual health topics, and serve as an advocate for sexual health at Brown. Peer Educators facilitate workshops in conjunction with Health Promotion staff and also participate in sexual health outreach projects through Health Promotion (like tables on the green and materials development and distribution). Workshops and outreaches are designed to: Promote conversations about healthy sexuality and safer sex. Increase understanding of sexual health and safer sex. Model an open and honest approach to sexual health discussions. Be inclusive of the diverse student body at Brown, recognizing the range of sexual health issues, sexual and gender identities, and varied levels of sexual health knowledge. Educators are expected to facilitate two to three workshops per semester. There are biweekly meetings to discuss programs, get ongoing training, and plan special projects. Peer educators also enter the weekly shift rotation to respond to incoming questions from the SHAG texting service, with an average of 2 weeks “on call” each semester. Is there training? Yes! There is both an initial training, at the beginning of the spring semester, and ongoing training covering topics including: Effective Facilitation Strategies for Inclusive and Empowering Sexuality Education Diversity and Inclusion Sexual Orientation Gender Identity Anatomy & Physiology Protection Methods Sexually Transmitted Infections Sexual Health Care Healthy Relationships/Communication/Consent How do I join? SHAG recruits new members each fall, with a new cohort starting with SHAG each spring semester. To find out more about SHAG, you can contact Naomi Ninneman, SHAG staff advisor, at 401-863-3521 or naomi[email protected], or e-mail the peer educators at shag@brown.edu. SHAG videos Check out SHAG's how-to-use videos and enjoy the SHAG Safer Sex Supers' adventures! About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook