Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Information Technology Services Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Get Help IT Portal System Status News Newsroom Email Newsletter Resources For Students For Employees Computer Requirement MFA Outdoor Wi-Fi Remote Work Projects Adobe Acrobat Sign Azure Server Migration Campus Email Storage@ISU WorkCyte Website Teams Digital Accessibility Research Security About About ITS Staff Directory Employment Our Culture Strategic Plan Annual Report Project Overview Information Technology Services has kicked off a phased project to unify email into a single system for the Iowa State University community. Currently, most students utilize a branded version of Gmail (CyMail), while employees utilize Microsoft Outlook (sometimes referred to as Microsoft “Exchange”). Back to top Project Details In the pre-planning stage, the Campus Email project team gathered feedback from key stakeholder groups including the Information Technology Leadership Committee, Technology Enterprise Advisory Committee, Faculty Student IT, Student Government leadership and college deans. Moving forward with the effort, the project will centralize email to Outlook for ease of use and management, while also reducing the duplication of services and resolving issues that stem from CyMail and Outlook co-existing, as they are not inherently designed to cooperate. Back to top Current Status Beginning fall 2021, incoming students were assigned a Microsoft Outlook student email account (no longer referred to as CyMail). All returning students since fall 2021 were able to continue using their Iowa State Gmail (CyMail) account. During the entire project those wishing to move to Outlook could do so. In April 2022, all CyMail account holders were notified of the decision to automatically move all CyMail accounts to Outlook in June 2022. Students can access their CyMail email and calendaring as view only until the end of September 2022. Back to top Schedule & Timeline September 30, 2022 Students will no longer be able to access CyMail email and calendaring. Fall 2022 All students will begin the fall semester using Outlook for email and calendaring. June 2022 All students still using CyMail for email and calendaring will be automatically moved to Outlook. April 2022 All students still using CyMail for email and calendaring will be notified that they will be migrated to Outlook in June, but can migrate themselves at any time with instructions provided. June 2021 Incoming students participate in orientation and learn about Outlook as their student email platform. April 2021 ITS assigns incoming students (fall 2021 entry) an Outlook email account. 2020 ITS gathers feedback from key stakeholder groups including the Information Technology Leadership Committee (ITLC), Technology Enterprise Advisory Committee (TEAC), Faculty Student IT, Student Government leadership and college deans. Back to top Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Is email changing at Iowa State? Iowa State is transitioning to campus-wide use of Outlook to provide a more secure, unified email service for campus. Faculty and staff currently use Outlook. Students using CyMail will transition to Outlook. How do I access and install Microsoft Outlook? If your computer already has Microsoft Office 365 installed, Outlook is already available to you. Follow these instructions to install Microsoft Office 365. You can also access web-based Microsoft Office 365 apps online. Outlook is also available as a mobile app and can be downloaded from your app store. How do I use Outlook? Outlook is the enterprise email solution used at Iowa State by students, faculty and staff. To learn more about Outlook and how to use the software, refer to “Outlook: Learn how to use Outlook email.” Where can I learn how to use Outlook? Refer to these Microsoft resources to learn more about Outlook. How to search and filter email How to clean up your inbox How to set email categories and reminders How to organize email with folders How to add a contact Additional resources can be found on the IT Portal. How will I access my Outlook email account? You can access your Outlook email account through the Outlook web application or by downloading the Outlook desktop application. If using the Outlook web application, log into your Okta dashboard (login.iastate.edu) and click on the Outlook application tile (pictured). The tile will automatically appear in your dashboard. To access and install the Outlook desktop application, follow these instructions for downloading Microsoft Office 365 applications. I’ve heard about “Microsoft Exchange.” Is this different than Microsoft Outlook? Microsoft Exchange is the software that provides the back end to a system for email, calendaring, etc. Microsoft Outlook is the application students, faculty and staff use to view their email, send messages, schedule meetings and more. Will student email still be called “CyMail?” No. “CyMail” refers to the Google email application previously used by students and the name will no longer be used. Students, faculty and staff will all use Outlook for campus email. How will students using CyMail learn how to transition to Outlook? Communications will be sent to current students who are using CyMail. Information will be provided about the automatic move in June 2022 and how students can move their account to Outlook sooner, if the student desires. Will graduate and Vet Med students move to Outlook? Yes. Graduate and Vet Med students will also move to Outlook automatically in June 2022. Students may voluntarily move to Outlook at any time before June 2022 if they would like to. Will students still be able to collaborate effectively on group projects, if some use Outlook and some use CyMail? Yes. With cloud storage products like OneDrive and CyBox available to all Iowa State students, group collaboration can continue. Students can access these tools from their Okta dashboard. When emailing a group of individuals who use Outlook and Gmail, do I need to do anything differently? No, there is no need to adjust how you format or send an email message. Create and send the message as you normally would. Is there effective spam and junk filtering in Outlook? Outlook automatically identifies email identified as spam or junk. These items are moved to your account’s junk folder where it can be evaluated. To learn more, refer to this article, Outlook: Mark "Safe Senders". Can messages in Outlook be organized? To organize email in Outlook, create folders and move messages to the preferred folder. Rules can also be created to automatically place delivered email in a specific folder. Refer to this article to learn more, “Outlook: Set up Rules in Outlook.” Will students with Outlook accounts be able to receive email notifications from Canvas (assuming they have opted-in)? Yes. The email service will not affect the delivery of emails from Canvas. When I switch from CyMail to Outlook, does my Net-ID remain the same? Yes. Your Net-ID and your email address will remain the same. Will the messages in my CyMail account automatically transfer to Outlook? If you voluntarily move your email account to Outlook, your existing messages and calendaring in CyMail will not automatically transfer to your Outlook account. You can move these items to Outlook by following these instructions. If you wait until June 2022 for your account to automatically move, your access and messages will automatically move to Outlook. What happens to my messages in CyMail? All messages and calendaring items will be copied to Microsoft Outlook automatically in June 2022. Messages will remain in CyMail and will be accessible as view only until September 30, 2022. Will technical issues with student Outlook email accounts be supported by ITS? What about existing CyMail accounts? Students who experience technical issues with their email - whether they use Outlook or CyMail - can contact the IT Solution Center for assistance. Complete an incident form, email solution@iastate.edu or call 515-294-4000. Back to top Project Overview Project Details Current Status Schedule & Timeline Frequently Asked Questions Information Technology Services 271 Durham Center Ames, IA 50011 Submit Website Feedback Need tech support? IT Solution Center 192 Parks Library Ames, IA 50011 solution@iastate.edu 515-294-4000 phone Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information