Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Registrar Academic Advising Academic Ceremonies Academic Ceremonies Fall Rotunda Passage May Commencement Opening Convocation December Rotunda Recessional December Commencement Spring Rotunda Passage Honors Convocation May Baccalaureate Service May Rotunda Recessional May Commencement Degree Honors Degree Honors Inserts Graduation & Diploma Services About Us Academic Records Academic Records Degree Honors Enrollment Rules Honor Roll Progress Grades Viewing Your Grades GPA Calculator Graduation Honors Inserts Transcript Requests Transfer Credit Legal Process Enrollment Information Enrollment Information Fall Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Summer Enrollment Information Master of Science in Data Science Program Waitlist Guidelines Common Curriculum Online Course Evaluation Course Listings Help Enrollment Policy Exception Frequently Asked Questions Final Exam Schedule The General Education Curriculum Grade Posting Schedule University Curriculum View Textbooks Online Contact Us Contact Us Virtual Office Information SMU Links SMU Links Site Index About SMU Access and Equity Administration Bursar Calendars Campus Directory Clery Report Enrollment Services Financial Aid Giving Libraries Maps Meadows Museum Information Technology Registrar Search Student Affairs Webmail ☰ Registrar Calendars and Course Catalogs Course Catalog Course Catalog View Current Catalog Overview of the Official University Bulletin and Catalogs The official University bulletin and catalogs are managed and published by SMU's Office of the Registrar. The official University catalog, bulletin or addendum takes precedent over information published on a school's or department's website. Print Versions of Catalogs To print individual sections of the current catalog, use the print-friendly icon found on the upper right-hand corner of pages on the catalog website. To print entire catalogs, download PDFs found on the undergraduate catalog archive or the graduate catalog archive webpages. Program Changes/Catalog Addenda Catalog addenda and appendixes listing text corrections and changes are available online, along with PDFs of the official catalogs. Check here for updates. Your Catalog of Record With a few exceptions, your catalog of record is the one in use during your term of matriculation at SMU. One exception is if you are returning to SMU after a three-year absence; your catalog of record is the one published for the academic year when you return. Archived copies are available for undergraduate catalogs and graduate catalogs. Curriculum Update: Based on the school of record, you may declare a later catalog of record if your program changes its requirements for the major. If you move forward to a later catalog you must meet all requirements in that catalog, including admission requirements for academic programs. Policy Update: Changes in official SMU policies do not constitute grounds for changing your catalog of record. You are responsible for complying with all current University rules and regulations. Scheduled Catalog Revisions Catalogs are updated annually by the relevant schools and departments and the University’s catalog editor. Information in the catalog is reviewed by the appropriate University committees and/or departments and approved by the governing body, the school and the Office of the Provost. Contact Info and Catalog Style Tips Direct questions about the official University catalogs or technical questions about the catalog webpages to the University catalog editor at catalogs@smu.edu. Links: SMU Catalog (current and recently archived) Archived Undergraduate Catalogs for 2000-current Archived Graduate Catalogs for 2000-current List of popular first-year courses Online Syllabus Library Calendars and Course Catalogs Academic Calendars Course Catalog Student Quicklinks my.SMU Request Transcript Course Catalog Final Exam Schedule University Curriculum Student Records Forms Preferred Name Honor Roll Important Messages to Students Student Appeals and Petitions Student Rights and Responsibilities Syllabus Library Transfer Credit/Equivalency Webpay Master of Science in Data Science Program Faculty/Staff Quicklinks my.SMU Enrollment Reporting Final Exam Schedule Forms Library: SR Forms (Public) Forms Library: SR Forms (Restricted) Important Messages to Faculty Policies and Procedures [Login] SR Policies & Procedures View all DES P&P Procedures- New Course/Prog Room Scheduling Syllabus Library Enrollment and Scheduling - Advanced Users Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share