Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct / Title IX Menu About Us Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Carolyn Hughes Christina Jeong Michael Noble Tracey Tevis Elysa Bucci Melissa Morie Josh Stephens Candace Huskey Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D External Investigators Title IX Case Management Team Members Policy & Procedures SIM/Title IX Policies Adaptable Resolution Federal Guidelines Key Points Amnesty Definitions Retaliation Confidentiality & Privacy Responsible Employee SB212 Reporting Prevention & Training Workshops and Programs Faculty & Staff Training Student Training Upcoming Events Title IX Training Materials for Title IX Personnel Investigator Training Hearing Officer Training Relevance Training Restorative Justice Training Mediation Training Advanced Title IX Investigator Training Title IX/VAWA Investigator Training Civil Rights/Title IX Sexual Misconduct Investigator Training Training in Restorative Practices and Campus Sexual Harm 2021 Campus Restorative Justice Across Student Affairs 2021 Reporting Resources Social Climate Surveys 2017 Social Climate Survey 2019 Social Climate Survey 2021 Social Climate Survey Baylor>Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX>Prevention & Training>Faculty & Staff Training Faculty & Staff Training Employee Assistance Program Call: 888-628-4844 Visit online - first time user: CLICK HERE Select "I am a first time user" Enter the Organization Web ID: PFGEAP Set up user name, password, & security question Receive free counseling and resources Contact our Trainer Call: (254) 710-8454 Title_IX@baylor.edu Receive guidance, submit concerns Reporting Title IX CLICK HERE Report It CLICK HERE Ethics Point CLICK HERE Report criminal, unethical, or otherwise inappropriate activities or behavior in violation of Baylor University's policies Baylor University continues to develop a campus culture of care. Our role as a prominent Christian University demands that we create a safe and secure environment within which all members of our community - faculty, staff, and students - can learn, thrive, and become the people God has created them to be. Every faculty and staff member plays an integral part in fostering a campus culture characterized by dignity, integrity, safety, and respect. One step towards creating and maintaining a safe environment is continuous communication and education of our community. All faculty and staff are required annually to complete the Bridges Supportive Communities: Clery Act and Title IX course. Faculty and staff will be able to access the course by logging into Ignite and going to the Learning Tab. Faculty and staff taking the course do not have to complete the course in one sitting, participants are able to exit the course and their progress will be saved. The course is best supported by the latest version of Chrome (preferred), Firefox, and Microsoft Internet Explorer 11+. If you have any accessibility issues, please select "accessibility mode" once you are in the course. If you need technical assistance with the course, please contact Everfi at support.everfi.com. Caring Community Specific Baylor policies and resources may be found at www.baylor.edu/titleix. It is important for faculty and staff to understand their roles in working with those who have been affected by these behaviors. Please see the Responsible Employee tab for more information. If you have questions regarding reporting, the policy, or your role as a responsible employee, please contact the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office at (254) 710-8454 or Title_IX@baylor.edu. If you encounter a student or colleague who may have been affected by sex or gender-based harassment, sexual assault, sexual exploitation, stalking, and/or intimate partner violence, please contact the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office. Please note The course addresses sensitive issues through scenarios and information that may be difficult to watch. These instances are not included for shock value, rather it is important for faculty and staff to be equipped to respond to situations they may encounter. The goal of this training is to prepare us for these disturbing situations so that we will respond with care and knowledge should they occur in reality. Some participants may find that the training recalls a past traumatic experience. If this occurs, we encourage you to contact our office or the Employee Assistance Program to receive support (See link on the right side of the page). The course content includes references to non-Christian faiths. These references provide guidance on interactions with students, community members, and external colleagues who may be of other faiths. In addition, Baylor University is a faith-based institution and, as such, is lawfully permitted to consider an applicant’s religion as a selection criterion for hiring decisions. Prior to taking the course Access and review BU-PP 022: Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct Policy Access and review BU-PP 028: Employee Civil Rights Policy Additional Training If you would like to inquire about in-person training, please visit the Workshops and Programs webpage for more information. More Information Related Baylor University Policies BU-PP 023: Standards of Personal Conduct BU-PP 024: Code of Ethics BU-PP 036: Romantic and/or Sexual Conduct with Students & Supervisees BU-PP 037: Whistleblower Policy Resources Contacts for Faculty, Staff, & Students - Contact information for police departments, hospitals, Employee Assistance Program, Human Resources, and other relevant departments on campus Title IX: Your Rights, Options, and Resources FAQs Who do I call if I encounter problems taking the course? For problems with course functionality, contact Baylor Human Resources at 254-710-2000 or askhr@baylor.edu. For questions regarding the content of the course, please contact the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX office at (254) 710-8454 or Title_IX@baylor.edu. How do I leave and return to the course? You may log out of the training by clicking on your name in the top right-hand corner. You will then be given a dropdown menu with the option "Logout". Your place in the course will automatically be saved. Who is considered a "responsible employee" as referenced in the course? All Baylor employees should consider themselves "responsible employees" and take responsibility for their role in ensuring campus safety. More information on Title IX-related situations can be found HERE. How do I track my progress through the course? After completing each of the three modules you will be taken back to the main page of the training, here you will be able to track your progress. How long does the course take to complete? Online courses allow participants to complete the content at their own pace, so there is not a definitive amount of time the course takes to complete. Progress depends on several factors including reading speed, prior knowledge of the content, and optional readings. That being said, it takes roughly 45 minutes on average to complete. Prevention & Training Workshops and Programs Faculty & Staff Training Student Training Upcoming Events Title IX Training Materials for Title IX Personnel Investigator Training Hearing Officer Training Relevance Training Restorative Justice Training Mediation Training Advanced Title IX Investigator Training Title IX/VAWA Investigator Training Civil Rights/Title IX Sexual Misconduct Investigator Training Training in Restorative Practices and Campus Sexual Harm 2021 Campus Restorative Justice Across Student Affairs 2021 Title IX Baylor University does not discriminate on the basis of sex or gender in any of its education or employment programs and activities, and it does not tolerate discrimination or harassment on the basis of sex or gender. Clifton Robinson Tower, Suite 285 One Bear Place #97011 Waco, TX 76798 254-710-8454 titleix_coordinator@baylor.edu ReportingTrainingSIM/Title IX PoliciesFAQs General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Carolyn Hughes Christina Jeong Michael Noble Tracey Tevis Elysa Bucci Melissa Morie Josh Stephens Candace Huskey Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D External Investigators Title IX Case Management Team Members Policy & Procedures SIM/Title IX Policies Adaptable Resolution Federal Guidelines Key Points Amnesty Definitions Retaliation Confidentiality & Privacy Responsible Employee SB212 Reporting Prevention & Training Workshops and Programs Faculty & Staff Training Student Training Upcoming Events Title IX Training Materials for Title IX Personnel Investigator Training Hearing Officer Training Relevance Training Restorative Justice Training Mediation Training Advanced Title IX Investigator Training Title IX/VAWA Investigator Training Civil Rights/Title IX Sexual Misconduct Investigator Training Training in Restorative Practices and Campus Sexual Harm 2021 Campus Restorative Justice Across Student Affairs 2021 Reporting Resources Social Climate Surveys 2017 Social Climate Survey 2019 Social Climate Survey 2021 Social Climate Survey