Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Legal Affairs & General Counsel General Counsel right arrow down arrow Office of General Counsel right arrow down arrow Public Records Requests Contracting with UC Ethics Attorneys & Staff Contact Us Enterprise Risk Management right arrow down arrow Insurance & Claims right arrow down arrow Insurance Verification or Claims History right arrow down arrow Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training right arrow down arrow Drones right arrow down arrow Flight Request Form Fleet Safety right arrow down arrow Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process right arrow down arrow Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Privacy Internal Audit Home » About UC » Legal Affairs & General Counsel » Enterprise Risk Management » Loss Control & Training Set Navigation title in component Insurance & Claims Insurance Verification or Claims History Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training Drones Flight Request Form Fleet Safety Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Loss Control & Training What is loss control? Loss control is taking proactive measures to prevent or reduce claims associated with accidents, property damage, injury, etc. Training is a key way to reduce losses, along with leadership support, clear ownership and accountability, adequate written policies and standard operating procedures, and ongoing monitoring and risk assessments. The aim of loss control is to reduce the frequency and severity of losses. Loss control is only achieved through the firm commitment of personnel at all levels within the University. Access the self-led trainings below. As always, we welcome your questions. Contact Enterprise Risk Management at ERM@uc.edu or (513) 558-5042 during business hours. Drones: Learn more about our stance on the new FAA UAS regulations, and what we are doing moving forward. Fleet Safety: Learn more about the driver authorization and review process to keep our community safe on the road. Protection of Minors: Learn more about how to spot and report sexual misconduct and protect minors on our campus. Special Events: Learn more about the risk management considerations when planning a special event on campus. Student Organizations: Learn more about risk management strategies, including insurance, for student organizations. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top