Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Safer Sex Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) What is PEP? Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) are medications that, if taken less than 72 hours after exposure to HIV and continued for 28 days, may reduce your risk of HIV infection after a high risk exposure. PEP is not a replacement for safer sex and PEP may require follow-up testing and medical care. When is PEP recommended? Medical providers recommend PEP be taken within 72 hours after a sexual exposure with a person known to be HIV-infected or after a high risk exposure, such as unprotected anal intercourse, with a person of unknown HIV status. How soon should I take PEP? The sooner you start the treatment, the better the chance of it working. You should start PEP as early as possible after being exposed to HIV and definitely within 72 hours (3 days). After 72 hours you should still contact your medical provider to discuss other options. PEP is available at Health Services, but if you need PEP at a time when we are closed (for example, if it is the middle of the night), please go directly to the Emergency Room so that you can get PEP as soon as possible. Does PEP have side effects? Yes, it can cause diarrhea, headaches, feeling sick and vomiting. You can take some medications to control some side effects like nausea and diarrhea. Because of the side effects, some people taking PEP need time off work or school and some have to stop taking PEP. The side effects do go away once someone stops taking the drugs. If you do have any side effects, you should be sure to inform your doctor. Does PEP work? Studies of health care workers show that the risk of becoming HIV positive after a needle stick injury is significantly reduced by using PEP. Studies in animals have also mostly shown the medications to be effective. PEP only works if taken within 72 hours of exposure. PEP may not work in all cases. Does PEP mean I can have unprotected sex? No. PEP is not a cure for HIV/AIDS. Taking PEP will not protect you against another exposure to HIV or other STIs. Safe sex and safe needle use are the most effective ways to avoid infection, but PEP is there if you need it. How do I take PEP? PEP involves taking two or three medications often combined into one pill daily. You need to take the pill(s) once a day for four weeks. It is very important that these medications are taken on time without missing doses. Please speak with your medical provider to learn more about PEP and decide whether it is right for you. Brown students who believe they may need PEP can call the Health Services nursing line at 401.863-1330. Resources Brown Health Services 401.863-1330 (to speak to a nurse) 401.863-3953(appointments) Miriam Hospital Immunology Clinic 401.793-4715 Brown University AIDS Program (BRUNAP) 401.863-6790 [email protected] National Clinician's Post-Exposure Prophylaxis Hotline (PEPline) 888.HIV-4911 About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook