Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Helping a Student in Distress Home Is This a Crisis? How Can I Help? Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Peers and Students Emergency Contacts Site Navigation Home Is This a Crisis? How Can I Help? Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Peers and Students Emergency Contacts Peers and Students Peers frequently go to each other for support and advice around a variety of issues. An individual who is distressed often wants help but doesn’t know how to ask. You can play an essential role by expressing your concerns in a caring, empathic, nonjudgmental way. Resources for Students Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Confidential resource to consult Student Support Services (SSS) Nonconfidential resource to consult Project LETS Peer Mental Health Advocates Brown students who are trained as peer counselors and advocates with lived experience with mental illness. You do not need a diagnosed mental illness to work with a PMHA. Animal-Assisted Therapy Provides weekly 10-minute sessions with registered therapy animals by appointment in Hillel BWell Health Promotion How to help a friend who has been sexually assaulted Worried about a friend’s eating or exercise habits How to talk to a friend about drinking or drug use How to Take Care of Yourself Monitor your own reactions and feelings. It can be stressful to interact with someone in distress. In addition to feeling that you want to help, you may find yourself feeling helplessness, fear, frustration or anger, empathy (feeling the other person's sadness, anger, hopelessness, etc.), impatience or "compassion fatigue." Helpers need support, too. Call the Counseling Center, x3500, to arrange for a confidential consultation with a clinician. Recognize your limits. It is not your responsibility to solve the problem for the other person; rather, to try to help them solve it or help them get help. Remember, although you may be a special and irreplaceable helper for this person in some ways, there are also other caring helpers available who may offer forms of help. Self-care tips from BWell Visit [email protected] How Can I Help? Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Peers and Students Division of Campus Life Division of Campus Life Brown University Box 1896 20 Benevolent St Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1800 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top