Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Population Studies and Training Center Research Themes Project Categories Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Undergraduates Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities External Funding Research Themes Children, Families, and Health Social Foundations of Health Disparities Migration and Urbanization Population, Development, and Environment Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Social Inequalities Funding Progressivity, COVID-19, and Inequality of School Resources by Race and SES How Changing Neighborhood and School Contexts Shape Mental Health and Educational Attainment from Childhood to Early Adulthood Project Categories Rhode Island Domestic International Research to Policy Spatial Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates NICHD Postdoctoral Fellows Predoctoral Trainees NICHD Predoctoral Fellows Past NICHD Fellows Admission and Requirements Funding Opportunities Workshops Predoctoral Training Program Application 2021-22 Undergraduates Migration Studies Certificate PSTC Undergraduate Fellows Program Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Migration Studies Initiative About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Remembering Sidney Goldstein Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities 2022 Postdoctoral Fellowship Manager of Communications and Outreach Postdoctoral Research Associate in Population Studies Summer 2021 Proctorship Program for predocs External Funding Research PSTC researchers are recognized locally and internationally as leaders in the scientific study of human populations. They advance health and well-being around the world through investigating key life processes in six signature research themes. Whether it is through their work on maternal mortality, educational disparities, or migration as a result of war or climate change, our researchers recognize that health and well-being reflects demographic processes and broader social and political contexts. Our faculty associates investigate human behavior through economic, social, spatial, health, and anthropological demography lenses. While most faculty associates hail from the social science disciplines of Anthropology, Economics, and Sociology, the PSTC's links to the School of Public Health, the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society, the Warren Alpert Medical School, and the departments of Education, History, and Political Science all provide rich opportunities for innovation and collaboration. Research Themes Children, Families, and Health Migration and Urbanization Population, Development, and Environment Social Foundations of Health Disparities Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Social Inequalities Research Categories Rhode Island Projects Domestic Projects International Projects Research to Policy Projects Spatial Projects Featured Projects Migration, urbanization, and health in a transition setting Research collaboration on masculinities and male sexual and reproductive health in Mexico Opportunity Insights More Projects Spotlight Poverty, Health, and Inequality in Child Development "It is increasingly clear that poverty and health have a reciprocal relationship, with each affecting the other, and with the two working together to contribute to inequality in child development." - Margot Jackson, Associate Professor of Sociology Read more Selected Publications Implications of Social and Legal Status on Immigrants’ Health in Disaster Zones. Elizabeth Fussell et al. American Journal of Public Health. 2018. 108(12): 1617-1620. The Uptick in Income Segregation: Real Trend or Random Sampling Variation? John R. Logan, Arnold Foster, Jun Ke, And Fan Li. American Journal of Sociology. 2018. 124: 185-222. Masculinity, Money, and the Postponement of Parenthood in Nigeria. Smith, D. J. Population and Development Review. 2020. 46(1): 101-120. More Publications Acknowledgements Research at the PSTC benefits from the generous financial support of public and private sponsors and foundations, including the National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation, Russell Sage Foundation, Hewlett Foundation, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Wenner-Gren Foundation, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Laura and John Arnold Foundation, and more. Back to top Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Population Studies and Training Center Population Studies and Training Center Brown University Box 1836 68 Waterman St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2668 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat