Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityValue of a Marquette Education Value of a Marquette Education Admissions Applying to Marquette Ready to apply? The links below will direct you to the online application pages for each college, school or special academic program. ADMISSIONS FOR Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Graduate business Dentistry Law SPECIAL ACADEMIC PROGRAMS Study abroad Study in Washington, D.C. Special academic programs International students Transfer students Summer studies Visit Marquette Marquette University, an urban university located in Milwaukee, Wis., provides daily visits to prospective students. Visit Marquette. Watch students tell their stories What's it like to live, study and play at Marquette University? Nobody knows better than those doing just that. Watch students tell their stories in My Marquette. Academics Academics at Marquette Marquette is routinely listed among the country's top universities, renowned for academic rigor, innovation and the achievements of its community of scholars. Colleges and schools Klingler College of Arts and Sciences College of Business Administration Diederich College of Communication School of Dentistry College of Education Opus College of Engineering Graduate School Graduate School of Management College of Health Sciences Law School College of Nursing Rankings Marquette ranks 84th in the 2020 edition of America's Best Colleges, released by U.S. News & World Report. View more rankings. Enhance your experience Whether it's through studying abroad, community service or student organizations, Marquette students take advantage of numerous programs to add to their experience. About About Marquette Marquette is a Catholic and Jesuit university located in Milwaukee, Wis., that offers more than 80 majors in its nationally and internationally recognized colleges and schools. About Marquette Tuition & costs Catholic & Jesuit Diversity at Marquette Our mission Our history Student demographics Academics Colleges & schools Majors & programs How we measure the student experience Assessment Accreditation Rankings & recognition Marquette en Español Acerca de Marquette Beyond the classroom Community Engagement Corporate Engagement Land Acknowledgment COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Libraries The libraries at Marquette The libraries at Marquette are a place where people, technology, and the printed word come together in a vibrant atmosphere that advances learning and discovery. Raynor Memorial Libraries Raynor Memorial Libraries website Library hours Raynor Memorial information desk: (414) 288-7556 Law Library Ray & Kay Eckstein Law Library website Current semester hours Building hours Student services Law information desk: (414) 288-7031 Collections and archives The Department of Special Collections and University Archives features university treasures, including the J.R.R. Tolkien Collection. University Archives Learn about the collections Search the collections Digitized collections Research Research at Marquette Research at Marquette has a strong sense of purpose and action, whether through the extension of knowledge beyond existing boundaries, the development of solutions to the world’s most pressing problems or the search for answers to life’s deepest questions. Learn more Grants, awards & presentations Books by Marquette faculty Discover research at Marquette Centers & institutes Faculty awards Office of Research & Innovation Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Marquette experts DISCOVER Marquette research Every spring, DISCOVER: Marquette University Research and Scholarship showcases some of the most interesting research happening on and off campus. Check out our interactive 2019 Discover Magazine Accessible PDF See past issues Athletics Athletics at Marquette The university's 16 varsity sports teams play in the BIG EAST Conference. Join us as we proudly say: We are Marquette! Teams Men's basketball Women's basketball Cross country Men's golf Men's lacrosse Women's lacrosse Men's soccer Women's soccer Men's tennis Women's tennis Track & field Women's volleyball Tickets The Ticket Office conducts ticketing for seven Golden Eagles' varsity sports: men’s and women’s basketball, men’s and women’s lacrosse, men’s and women’s soccer and women’s volleyball. Spirit Shop The Spirit Shop features the most popular brands of attire for Marquette fans. Shop on campus or online. Alumni Marquette alumni Ring out ahoya with fellow alumni through the Marquette University Alumni Association, an organization of nearly 110,000 members worldwide. Learn more About MUAA Class notes and news Clubs & chapters Events & reunions Alumni Newsletter Networking Join the CIRCLES business networking program Connect with the MUAA group on LinkedIn Marquette Magazine Marquette Magazine is the university's official quarterly alumni publication. View latest issue. Giving Help to enrich and expand student opportunities, support our teacher-scholars, foster innovation and transform our campus. Give online today and rise with us! Marquette.edu // Value of a Marquette Education // Lasting Value Value of Marquette Menu Lasting Value Top-Tier Education Welcoming Community Faith-Based Approach Unifying Mission Transformational experience How do you assess the value of an education? At Marquette, our definition of value is simple: an education that prepares you for a fulfilling career and a purposeful life — at an investment that’s one of the lowest in our peer group. To make sure you get the highest value possible, you’ll learn inside world-class facilities from exceptional faculty. You’ll be surrounded by a supportive, diverse community. You’ll thrive in our faith-based, respectful, deeply caring environment. And you’ll rally together with others around the pillars of our mission: excellence, faith, leadership and service. Ultimately, you’ll experience four exceptional years that will transform you into the truest version of yourself, ready to go out into the world and Be The Difference. Attend one of the top 100 universities in the country — and get one of the lowest tuition rates. Marquette ranked 83rd among U.S. News & World Report’s 100 best colleges, with diverse programs and groundbreaking research. Our tuition and fee rate is the fourth lowest among the 57 private universities on the top 100 list. Enjoy a remarkable ROI. Marquette is among the top 200 schools named by the Princeton Review as offering the best return on investment with respect to academics, affordability and career preparation. Step effortlessly into your career right after graduation. Marquette was ranked 6th in the nation and first in Wisconsin as a best college for job placement, based on Department of Education College Scorecard data as reported in rankings released by Zippia.com. The rankings of all undergraduate degree-granting higher education institutions were based on job placement numbers 10 years after graduation. Top-Tier Education Location Marquette University 1250 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (800) 222-6544 Key Resources español Employment Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu COVID-19 Information eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©