Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Site Navigation Faculty Awards New Faculty Academic Committees Open Faculty Positions Faculty Affairs New Faculty New Faculty 2022 Irene Papanicolas, Ph.D. professor of health services, policy, and practice Irene Papanicolas, Ph.D. focuses her research and teaching on assessing the performance of health systems, including methods to compare national health systems. She works closely with experts in policy, practice and researchIrene Papanicolas.jpg to identify cross-country learning. Papanicolas is also a Visiting Scientist at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, and serves as Associate Editor of the journal Health Policy. Coming to Brown SPH from the London School of Economics, she will lead a new effort on Comparative Health Systems that will equip health systems with the knowledge and tools needed to address current and future challenges and improve their performance. She will join the School in September as professor of health services, policy, and practice. “To protect populations from existing and future global challenges to health, including climate change, pandemics, and economic crises, we need to improve health systems and the collaboration between them. Our work on Comparative Health Systems at Brown will aim to produce evidence on effective and efficient strategies to improve health system performance,” said Papanicolas. Andrew (Andy) Ryan, Ph.D. professor of health services, policy, and practice Andrew (Andy) Ryan, Ph.D. is coming to Brown from the University of Michigan School of Public Health where he served as director of the Center for Evaluating Health Reform, and co-andrewryan.jpgdirector of the Center for Health Outcomes and Policy, and associate director of the Institute for Healthcare Policy and Innovation’s Data and Methods Hub. A national leader in health policy research and training, Ryan will build out a new effort on Health Policy at Brown SPH focused on the effects of changes in health policy on quality of care, healthcare spending, and value, such as quantitative research to evaluate and improve payment policy in the U.S. He will collaborate across health policy researchers and centers at the university and beyond, and pilot partnerships with other disciplines, such as integrating legal scholarship to advocate for regulatory changes. Ryan will join the School in September as professor of health services, policy, and practice. “The US health policy landscape is constantly shifting. Timely research has the potential to identify key problems and pose solutions. Building off of the success of Brown’s outstanding faculty, our work will advance rigorous policy research to support needed reforms to U.S. health care,” said Ryan. Malabika Sarker, Ph.D. professor of the practice of behavioral and social sciences Malabika Sarker, Ph.D. is coming to Brown from Brac University in Dhaka, Bangladesh. An internationally known expert in public healthMalabika Sarker.jpg implementation science research and practice, she founded the Center of Excellence for Science of Implementation and Scale Up at BRAC, and leads implementation science related education, training, research and advocacy. Sarker serves on multiple advisory boards, including Lancet Global Health, Medical Research Council UK, National Institute of Health Research UK, the Evaluation Advisory Committee of GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance, and she chairs the advisory board of the HRP Alliance for Research Capacity Strengthening. At Brown SPH, Sarker will focus on implementation science research and teaching, build a partnership platform with other academic institutions and organizations in the global south, and lead new learning initiatives such as creating a structured global public health immersive experiential learning program for MPH and doctoral students. She will join the School in September as professor of the practice of behavioral and social sciences. “I am excited to be part of this new phase of the Brown public health era. We will foster Implementation Science and build a south-north platform for shared learning to tackle global health threats created by uneven-paced globalization,” said Sarker. Craig Spencer, M.D., MPH associate professor of the practice of health services, policy, and practice Craig Spencer, M.D., MPH will join Brown from the Columbia University Medical Center and New York-Presbyterian Hospital where he served as director of Global Health in Emergency Medicine. He has worked on healthCraig Spencer.jpg crises around the globe, including coordinating the Doctors Without Borders national epidemiological response in Guinea during the Ebola outbreak. In 2021, Spencer won an Emmy award for a short film about the medical response to the COVID pandemic in the United States. At Brown, Dr. Spencer will be focusing on the historical foundations of public health practice, especially with respect to global health, humanitarian response, and pandemic preparedness. Looking through the lens of history—at events as diverse as colonial sleeping sickness campaigns to the global response to COVID-19—his program will bring together learning from public health, historians, anthropologists, and other social scientists to highlight why understanding public health’s past is crucial for guiding its current and future development. Dr. Spencer will join the School in September as associate professor of the practice of health services, policy, and practice. “I’m honored and ecstatic to be part of the exciting growth at the Brown SPH. I’m especially looking forward to working together with students and faculty throughout the school to explore the foundations of public health policy and using that knowledge to build better health systems for communities all over the world,” said Dr. Spencer. New Faculty 2021 Madina Agénor, ScD, MPH Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Alyssa Bilinski, Ph.D. Peterson Family Assistant Professor of Health Policy, Assistant Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice and Biostatistics Kaley Hayes, PharmD, PhD Assistant Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice Aditya Khanna, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Cyrus Kosar, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice Youjin Lee, Ph.D. Manning Assistant Professor of Biostatistics Arman Oganisian, MS Assistant Professor of Biostatistics Robert Rosales, PhD, LCSW Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Erica Walker, MSc, ScD Assistant Professor of Epidemiology Jesse Yedinak, MPA Assistant Professor of the Practice of Epidemiology New Faculty 2020 Tayla von Ash, Sc.D., MPH Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research Profile Lauren Bohlen, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research Profile Kristin Danko, M.Sc., Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice Research Profile Roberta DeVito, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Data Science and Biostatistics Research Profile Emily Gadbois, MA, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice Research Profile William C. Goedel, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Epidemiology (Research) Research Profile Scott Goodspeed, Ph.D. Professor of the Practice of Health Services, Policy and Practice Research Profile Sarah Helseth, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research Profile Patricia Holland, MS, CRC Assistant Professor of the Practice of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research Profile Lynn Koerbel, MPH Assistant Professor of the Practice of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research Profile Christopher Koller, MPPM Professor of the Practice of Health Services, Policy and Practice Research Profile Florence Meleo-Meyer, MS, MA, LMFT Assistant Professor of the Practice of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research Profile David J. Meyers, Ph.D., MPH Assistant Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice Research Profile Lauren Micalizzi, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences (Research) Research Profile Alice Paul, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Biostatistics Research Profile Michelle Rogers, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences (Research) Research Profile Kelli Scott, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research Profile Alexander Sokolovsky, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research Profile Shufang Sun, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research Profile Nisha Trivedi, MD Assistant Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice Research Profile Faculty Faculty Awards New Faculty Academic Committees Open Faculty Positions Faculty Affairs School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top