About Home Events Giving REU Nevis in the News Contact us Basics What we do Students and visitors What is physics? Physics for you Research Overview ATLAS MicroBooNE VERITAS Heavy ion Astrophysics RARAF Info Phone Book Directions Events Meeting rooms Services Webmail Wiki Viewcal (need login) Room reservations DocDB A/V (for tech setup) Nevis in the News Articles about research and researchers at Nevis April, 2022 - Columbia University Irving Medical Center Columbia Accelerates Research into Next-Generation Radiation Therapies. The new heavy-ion linear accelerator, dedicated to research on cancer treatments, is located in the RARAF area of Nevis Labs. October 27, 2021 - Columbia News A Longtime Search at Fermilab for a Fourth Kind of Neutrino Ends with New Questions. The article includes mention of the Columbia Neutrino group at Nevis Labs, which formed part of the research effort that produced this important result. For more information, see MicroBooNE's Search for the Low-Energy Excess and the home page of Prof. Michael Shaevitz. October 2021 - APS News Jessica Esquivel Powers a Career in Particles and People. Jessica Esquivel was part of the Research Experience for Undergraduates program at Nevis Laboratories from 2009 to 2010. October 18, 2021 Curious, and want to join the hot debate surrounding sterile neutrinos? Be sure to tune in to BNN Live, for the latest views on the subject, featuring Nevis Laboratories' own Mark Ross-Lonergan! October 5, 2021 - Columbia News A New Clue in a Decades-Long Search for a Fourth Type of Neutrino. The article mentions Associate Professor Georgia Karagiorgi, Post-Doc Mark Ross-Lonergan, and former Columbia graduate student Kathyrn Sutton of the Neutrino group at Nevis. September 8, 2021 - Columbia News Searching for Ghostly Neutrinos to Understand Why Matter Dominates the Universe. The article focuses on Associate Professor Georgia Karagiorgi, who works at Nevis on the analysis and hardware of several Neutrino experiments. February 1, 2021 Nuclear Physicist Chien-Shiung Wu was Honored on a U.S. Postal Service Commemorative Forever Stamp. Professor Wu's accomplishments include the experimental discovery of parity violation, which was of critical important in the development of particle physics. Link to Older articles WEBMASTER