COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW About Wichita State In This Section About Us Fast Facts Innovation at WSU Research at WSU Vision, Mission and Goals Strategic Plan University Growth Explore Wichita DiscoverWSU Maps and Directions Activities and Traditions WuShock Administration WSU Newsroom Public Information Employment Stop Video Find out more about becoming a Shocker.Request info This is the place where anything is possible. Where collaboration and innovative ideas shape the future, and entrepreneurship is in our bones. If you have the creativity, passion and insight to help us build a brighter future for our city, state and world—this is the place where you belong. Our Innovative Approach Request info Exploding Growth WSU has a long tradition of innovation and entrepreneurship that spurs the economy and serves the needs of the local community. See how our latest big, audacious plans — which have doubled the size of campus in just four years — are working to build a better future for our students, the state of Kansas and the world. Mission & Values Administration Strategic Plan Accreditation Assessment Public Information and Trending Topics Looking for Something? A-Z Index OneStop help center Our Location Wichita State University is located in the heart of the midwest in the largest city in the state of Kansas. Our beautiful 330-acre campus is situated on the crest of a hill with a view of downtown Wichita, 5 miles to the southwest. We'd love to have you visit us! You can get driving directions to any point on campus using our Interactive Map. View the Interactive Map Visit Campus See Our Progress If you attended Wichita State in the 2000s, chances are you wouldn't recognize the campus today. Beginning in 2012, a new mission and vision led to rapid expansion, with dozens of new buildings and renovation projects, new housing and campus life initiatives, and public-private partnerships with a growing list of businesses to support our firm commitment to applied learning, innovation, creativity and research. Best of all, we're just getting started. Learn more about our growth Check out our Innovation Campus Feel at Home in Wichita As Kansas' largest city, Wichita is the commercial, financial, medical, cultural and entertainment hub for the state. Our home is one of the most affordable cities in the country—providing a high quality of life at a low cost. As a resident, you'll enjoy access to huge annual festivals, parks, world-class dining and a thriving arts scene. Learn more about the ICT Discover WSU Year round, there's so much to do on the Wichita State campus -- from music, theater and dance performances to world-class museums to the heart-pounding excitement of Shocker athletics. Now, with the establishment of Braeburn Square and the development of community-facing resources like GoCreate, we have even more attractions for the Wichita community at large. Visit DiscoverWSU WSU Traditions Why Wichita State? Learn more about Wichita StateWSU Fast Facts 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©