Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Cyber Defense and Information Assurance Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Cyber Defense and Information Assurance Certificate (Graduate) Cyber Defense and Information Assurance Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in Cyber Defense and Information Assurance Gain practical training in cyber defense with the Graduate Certificate in Cyber Defense and Information Assurance in Temple University’s College of Science and Technology. This 12-credit, interdisciplinary certificate program is designed for current working technical professionals at any level of their career seeking the necessary skills to protect businesses, organizations and governments from ever-increasing cyber threats. The curriculum focuses on network security and digital forensics and aims to bridge the gap between cybersecurity technology and cybersecurity policies. You’ll develop expertise across different academic disciplines, including business, computer and information sciences, electrical and computer engineering, and law. Construct and maintain cybersecurity frameworks focused on preventive, detective and corrective security mechanisms. Graduates of the program can apply security forensics principles and practices to applications and networks; comply with industry standards; document findings and make recommendations on applications and systems security; and identify network and application vulnerabilities. In addition to the substantial use of technology in the program, you’ll also study compliance, ethics, policy and regulation for a comprehensive understanding of this rapidly growing field. In our digital world, the number of cyber threats on our computer systems and information privacy increases. Through the Cyber Defense and Information Assurance Graduate Certificate program, you’ll prepare to design and maintain systems that safeguard against accidental or malicious modification, destruction or disclosure. Classes & Curriculum All classes for the Cyber Defense and Information Assurance Graduate Certificate are held after 4:30 p.m. on Temple’s Main Campus. The following four courses are required but students can replace one course with a graduate-level course with approval from their advisor. Comp Systems Security & Privacy Ethical Hacking and Intrusion Forensics Introduction to Digital Forensics Operating Systems and Architecture Learn more about classes in the Cyber Defense and Information Assurance Graduate Certificate. Careers Professionals skilled in cybersecurity are in high demand, leading to an increase in job opportunities for graduates. The Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts a 32% increase in employment for information security analysts between 2018 and 2028. Graduates of the Cyber Defense and Information Assurance Graduate Certificate are prepared for the following careers. Computer security forensic investigator Cybersecurity systems engineer Information security officer Information technology network security penetration tester Security analyst or cybersecurity analyst Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contacts For general questions regarding the Cyber Defense and Information Assurance Graduate Certificate, email cst.psm@temple.edu. Please contact the following staff members regarding the Cyber Defense and Information Assurance Graduate Certificate. Mary Grace Giraldo is an assistant professor of instruction and program director of the Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM. Phone: 302-740-1779 Email: mary.grace.giraldo@temple.edu Seema Freer is an associate professor of practice in the Biology Department and the managing director of PSM programs. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-CDIA-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Cyber Defense and Information Assurance Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.