retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs MENU Header Menu Texas Union Hours WCP (formerly SAC) Hours Events Calendar Employment Search Search Texas Union Texas Union 360° Virtual Tour William C. Powers, Jr. Student Activity Center WCP Student Activity Center 360° Virtual Tour History & Sustainability Through Our Eyes Hogg Auditorium Food & Fun Food Truck Schedule Texas Union Underground Tower Tours Events + Entertainment About Us Committees Services Your Event Advertising - DigiKnow Pricing & Policies Locations & Reservations Food & Catering About Us Board of Directors Employment Support Our Students University Unions 360° Virtual Tours Breadcrumb Home The Texas Union The Texas Union Building Hours Spring 2022 The Texas Union was built in 1933 to serve as a college independent community center or "living room" on campus. It is one of the buildings designed by Paul Cret who also designed the Tower and Main Building, Goldsmith Hall and Texas Memorial Museum on campus. Money to build the Union was raised by the Texas Exes in a campaign led by Thomas Watt Gregory. Hungry?! We've got plenty of food and drink options @ the Texas Union. Dining @ the Union Bowling, Billiards, & Games, Oh My! Take a break and enjoy yourself. Fun in the Underground! Tower Tours This is a non-historical tour. Information about the Tower's architecture is provided, and it is a wonderful opportunity for photos and a full 360 degree view of Austin and the UT campus. Tour the Tower! Advertise your event The University Unions provides the opportunity for university departments and registered student organizations to advertise events and activities on campus. There are 12 screens located throughout the Texas Union, Student Activity Center, Prufrock’s Coffee Shop in the PCL, and the Wendy’s in Jester Center. Get info on DigiKnow! Upcoming Events No events at this time. View all Events We've got 5 floors of food, fun, and meeting space. View Texas Union floor plans The Texas Union, viewed from the West Mall @ Guadalupe Street. Marsha Miller Hospitality Center Welcome to the Hospitality Center in the Texas Union where a friendly and efficient staff can provide answers to your questions about the Unions, the University, and the city of Austin. Here, you will also be able to make reservations for Tower Tours or get information on how to reserve rooms in the Texas Union and Hogg Memorial Auditorium. We also offer a variety of free informational pamphlets, bus schedules, and brochures. Come visit us in the South Lobby of the Texas Union during building hours and be greeted with a smile! Reserve your space in the Texas Union Submit your space requests in Mazevo, our event reservation system. Visit reservation system (leaving Unions website) Tweets from @utunions UT University Unions UTUnions Catch Anna Larson, the first of our Summer Series, in the Cactus Cafe! Friday, June 3 at 7:30PM. More info at… https://t.co/UDgO5iYzR4 2 days 18 hours ago ⇄ UT University Unions Retweeted UT Austin UTAustin Congratulations to the graduating class of 2022! #UTGrad22 🤘🎓🎉 https://t.co/fjK9poGV0e 1 week 2 days ago ⇄ UT University Unions Retweeted UT Austin UTAustin Lightning and strong winds are rapidly approaching the Austin area from the West. Please use caution as you depart Campus. 1 week 2 days ago ⇄ UT University Unions Retweeted Emmanuel Acho EmmanuelAcho The calm before the storm. It’s the honor of my life to honor @UTAustin’s graduating class as tonight’s commencemen… https://t.co/Li7idDo590 1 week 2 days ago ⇄ UT University Unions Retweeted UT Housing UTHousing And that’s a wrap 🤘 Thanks for letting us join y’all on your Forty Acres journeys. Keep those horns up and enjoy yo… https://t.co/QeWJUx946M 1 week 5 days ago View all UT Unions tweets Connect with us FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram Contact The Texas Union Contact us for more information The Texas Union Location: Campus Mail: UNB, F4200 2308 Whitis Avenue Texas Union Building Austin, Texas 78712 Address: P.O. Box 7338 Austin, Texas 78713-7338 Phone: 512-475-6636 Fax: 512-475-6599 Website: https://universityunions.utexas.edu The mission of the University Unions is to enhance the student experience and to enrich campus life by providing cultural, educational, social, and recreational programs as well as related goods and services to the campus community. FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram SnapchatSee us on Snapchat TwitterFind us on Twitter Footer menu Events Calendar Tower Tours Employment Cactus Café UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022