Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home > Welcome New Students! Connect With Us! New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Want to stay up-to-date on everything Graduate Student Affairs has to offer? Make sure to follow us on our social media platforms to stay in the loop about events, student organizations, deadlines, and much more! Follow Find us on Social Media. Follow @cugradseas on Instagram + Twitter and @cuseasgrad on Facebook. See what other students are sharing and the latest posts from Columbia Engineering. #Hashtag Use #CUatSEAS on your pictures and posts to show off your school pride! Follow Us! Connect with us on social media to see what's happening on-campus and learn more about our office. Facebook Instagram Twitter Admitted Student Facebook Group Join our Admitted Student Facebook Group. This group is meant to be a place for admitted students to ask questions, connect, and mingle with their new classmates. This group is moderated by administrators from Columbia University and posts will be monitored for approval. Any views or opinions expressed in the group are not representative of the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. We hope that you find this to be a helpful resource, and we can't wait to meet you on campus! Join Now Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University