Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Areas Student Orgs Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs MA in SLP Admissions Curriculum Non-CSD Coursework Clinical Education Additional Information Apply Now SLP Program Description SLP Program Goals AuD in Audiology AdmissionsCurriculumNon-CSD CourseworkClinical EducationAdditional InformationApply NowAuD Program DescriptionAuD Program GoalsAuD Specialization TracksAuD-PhD ProgramDual AuD-MPH Program PhD in CSD AdmissionsApply Now Program DescriptionPhD Program Goals American Sign Language ASL and Deaf StudiesASL CoursesASL as World LanguageASL MinorASL Placement and CreditWhy ASL? Graduate Certificates AACPopulation Hearing HealthVocology Continuing Education Walt Fritz Seminar Diversity Take Action Apply Now Support the School Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Programs SLP Clinical Education SLP Clinical Education The goal of the University of Memphis clinical education program in Speech-Language Pathology is to provide students with a broad practicum experience across ages, settings, cultures, and communication disorders. Students begin their clinical experiences in the University clinic and then by the second year are placed off-site in area hospitals, private clinics, and schools. Clinical experiences are individualized to meet the needs and interests of the student while assuring that by graduation he/she has the necessary knowledge and skills to begin the Clinical Fellowship. The School has a speech pathology clinical faculty with individuals who each have their particular areas of interest and expertise. They are very active professionally and present papers at local, state and national meetings. In addition to their specialty areas, these faculty members are committed to studying the clinical education process. All students have the opportunity to work with and learn from each master clinician. In addition to the clinical practicum experience all students participate in a clinic class each semester. The first semester students are introduced to fundamental skills for clinical practice and policies and procedures for the Memphis Speech and Hearing Center. The second semester focuses on assessment of speech and language disorders and client/family counseling. The third semester covers public school law and procedures involved in providing services in the schools. The final semester is a professional issues section. Clinical students begin their clinical practice at the Memphis Speech & Hearing Center. There, students are encouraged not only to ask questions, but also to consider alternative explanations for research and clinical outcomes. In addition, students work under the guidance of faculty in other clinical sites around Memphis, such as rehabilitation hospitals, private practices, developmental centers, medical centers, and public and specialty schools. As a result, our students gain valuable experience with clients, in specialties across the scope of practice in the field, well before graduation. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.