Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Electrical Engineering PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Electrical Engineering PhD Apply Request More Info Electrical Engineering PhD Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Electrical Engineering PhD Develop research and design experiments in the Electrical Engineering PhD, a terminal degree for future engineering educators, innovators and technicians offered at Temple University’s College of Engineering. As a PhD candidate, you’ll dive into highly interdisciplinary research projects with a focus on the science of electricity, electronics and electromagnetism. Doctoral candidates also have the opportunity to work with other Engineering departments, Mathematics and Physical Sciences, and the School of Medicine. The small size and agility of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering will allow you to form close relationships and meaningful collaborations with faculty members. Professors operate according to an open-door policy, so you can visit them regularly outside of class to discuss questions, brainstorm independent research projects or talk through issues of professional development. You’ll form close relationships with your cohort, as well: Temple maintains a dynamic student body representing a wide range of ethnic, national and racial identities. Opportunities for federally funded research with local companies allow for learning the most advanced skills in electrical engineering. Completion Requirements Completion requirements depend on whether you enter the doctoral program with a master’s degree. If you have a master’s degree, you must complete 15 credits of PhD-level didactic coursework and 15 credits of PhD exams and dissertation research, for a total of 30 credits. If you only have a bachelor’s degree, you must complete 45 credits of master’s- and PhD-level coursework and 15 credits of PhD exams and dissertation research, for a total of 60 credits. See the Admissions section below for more information. Between didactic coursework, dissertation research and examinations, the PhD can take four or five years, depending on your trajectory and project interests. You have up to seven years to complete your degree. There are three major pieces of culminating work for the PhD. Preliminary examination: This exam evaluates your communication, information-synthesis and research skills. Dissertation proposal: Research and write your proposal, and present it at an open college seminar. Dissertation writing and defense: Present and defend your dissertation in front of a dissertation committee. Research Funding The College of Engineering had more than $14 million in active research in 2016–2017. With external support from prestigious organizations including the National Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation, the U.S. Navy and the American Heart Association, faculty members of Temple University’s College of Engineering are engaging in advanced research. Graduate students will find multiple opportunities to partner with faculty on innovative projects and perform experiments. Take a look at the full range of labs in the College of Engineering. In 2016, the National Science Foundation placed Temple among the top 100 in terms of research expenditures, which amounted to $242 million. Learn more about the university’s expanded research support efforts. Carnegie Classification In 2016, Temple was elevated to an R1 institution of “highest research activity” by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education, placing it in the top 4% of all four-year educational institutions in the nation. Temple’s research enterprise distinguishes itself through its focus on community, and using advances in technology to make a positive impact on people’s lives. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,184.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,546.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Labs & Research Perform experiments in cutting-edge facilities including a medical sensor lab, where researchers work on transforming basic off-the-shelf sensors into sophisticated medical tools. The department also boasts a wireless radar lab and a robust infrastructure for work in digital communications, signal processing, machine learning and big data, and the Internet of Things. Get involved in faculty studies funded by grants from organizations like the National Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation and the U.S. Navy. Collaborations with institutions such as Temple University Hospital add to opportunities for interdisciplinary and data-driven research. Access to substantial amounts of real data allows graduate students to perceive larger statistical trends and further advance their research. Students and faculty in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering are engaged in a variety of high-quality research studies. Check out the Electrical Engineering Department’s cutting-edge labs and equipment. Our Advisors A faculty advisor will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate student advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. Classes & Curriculum Apply your expertise to areas from neural signal processing and shipboard crane control to wireless communication. Most of the research being done in the Electrical Engineering Department can be grouped into three overarching areas. controls and sensors signal processing wireless communications Take a look at the full list of required courses. EN-ECE-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Electrical Engineering PhD Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info