Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Undergraduate Studies and General Education Main Navigation ACADEMIC ROADMAPS CURRICULOG CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT GENERAL EDUCATION UPS UNIVERSITY CATALOG Contact GE Requirements FAQs for Students FAQs for Faculty EO 1100 EO 1110 8-Year Recertification GE Program Learning Goals ASSIST.org General Education at CSUF General Education provides the foundation of a university education. It is designed to give students a breadth of knowledge and understanding across the major disciplines of science, social science, arts, and humanities. It is also designed to help students develop broadly applicable skills such as critical thinking and writing, enhance their capacity for lifelong learning, and strengthen their ability to contribute effectively within our culturally diverse society. The GE Programmatic Student Learning Goals are aligned with the WSCUC Core Competencies. The General Education Program provides a common intellectual experience for all students regardless of their major and enhances their awareness of themselves in a complex universe, drawing upon multiple points of view, and helps to prepare them for full participation in professional and civic life. Through the thoughtful completion of the General Education Program, students will acquire knowledge of diverse disciplinary perspectives, develop skills for analyzing new situations and problems, and gain both self-awareness and an understanding of their role in both local and global communities. Assist.org ASSIST.org is the offiicial course transfer and articulation system for California's public colleges and universities. It is best used in combination with seeing an advisor. It is intended to help students and counselors work together to establish an appropriate path toward transferring from a public California community college to a public California university. For students seeking advising on General Education, go to the Academic Advising Center. GE REQUIREMENTS (Quad-Fold) GE COURSES PER CATALOG YEAR Courses that satisfy General Education (GE) can vary based on your Catalog Year. To see the lists of GE courses that meet your GE requirements, please select the button that best represents your Catalog Year. To find out your Calendar Year, visit the Catalog Rights web page. Summer 2018 & Earlier Fall 2018-Summer 2019 Fall 2019-Summer 2021 Fall 2021 & Beyond This site is maintained by Undergraduate Studies and General Education. Last Published 4/11/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact clcardenas@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.