Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Safety Menu Main Nav Campus Safety What to do in an emergency Back Back Close About Overview FAQ BC Police Department Overview About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Services Emergency Management Overview Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Environmental Health & Safety Overview Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Documents Overview Crime Alerts Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report Business Continuity Emergency Plans and Publications What to do in an emergency Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Occupational Health & Safety Programs Home Environmental Health & Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Environmental Health & Safety Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Compliance with Federal and State occupational safety regulations is a top priority at Boston College. The Office of Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) is committed to working with each department to ensure the safety and health of all staff, faculty, and students. EHS administers and assists in coordinating the following occupational health and safety programs and services: Maintaining Indoor Air Quality During Construction and Renovation Projects Asbestos Management The Asbestos Management Program (pdf) has been established to maintain a safe and healthy work environment for employees, students, contractors, and visitors by ensuring that asbestos-containing materials (ACMs) will be managed, abated, and disposed in full compliance with all applicable Federal, State, and local regulations to reduce and eliminate exposure to airborne asbestos fibers. The objectives of the Program include identification of asbestos materials, hazard communication and assessment, training, and proper project documentation associated with asbestos abatement projects in University facilities. Work Practices Boston College does not authorize its employees to engage in Class I, Class II, or Class III asbestos repair or removal activities, but instead utilizes licensed and certified outside contractors for these services. Employees shall not disturb or damage any identified confirmed or suspect ACM. Work may be conducted safely in and around areas containing properly maintained ACMs. Proper work practices shall be utilized as outlined in the Asbestos Management Program (pdf). Employees should inform their immediate supervisor of any suspect asbestos building materials that are disturbed or damaged or have the potential to be damaged during planned activities. Note: Building inspection reports containing suspect asbestos material bulk sample results are located in the EH&S office. Please contact Kathy Stone at x2-0300 for assistance. Emergency Response Protocols Emergency asbestos abatement may be required in response to unexpected incidents and uncontrolled events (Management Plan Section 7.6). In the event of a major asbestos fiber release, work shall stop, the area shall be isolated and occupants evacuated to avoid further disturbance and further access will be denied. Facilities Services and the EH&S Office should be notified immediately of the situation at (617) 552-0308 or (617) 552-3048. General Work Practices and Procedures Do not drill, sand, break, cut or disturb the asbestos material in any manner. Do not allow airborne asbestos fibers to be released. Prevent airborne asbestos fibers from being entrained into the building’s HVAC system. Do not dry sweep the debris/material. Do not walk in or track debris. If possible, keep debris wet with a water spray bottle. Do not allow public access to or through the area. If an unexpected suspect or confirmed asbestos-containing material is discovered during renovation or maintenance work, do not disturb the material. Contact the EH&S office for a review of building inspection reports or required bulk sample analysis for asbestos content. Training Two-hour Asbestos Awareness training is provided initially upon employment to all worker who may work near or may impact asbestos-containing materials (ACMs) during their normal routine work activities. Back To Top Back To Top BC Campus Safety 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About BC Police Department Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Documents To report a campus emergency: Call BC Police @ 617-552-4444 In case of fire call 911 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College