Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department About UHPD Campus Security Authority Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? What is My Responsibility as a CSA? Where Can I Get More Information About CSAs? Make a Report (PDF) Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu Campus Security Authorities Introduction The Jeanne Clery Campus Security Policy & Crime Statistics Disclosure Act and what you need to know if you are a Campus Security Authority (CSA) at the University of Houston. What is the Clery Act? Jeanne Clery, a 19-year-old Lehigh University freshman, was assaulted and murdered in her dorm room in 1986. In 1998 the “Student Right-to-Know and Campus Security Act” was renamed in her memory. The Clery Act was enacted in the belief that crime awareness can prevent campus victimization. The law requires colleges and universities receiving federal funding to prepare, publish, and distribute, by October 1 of each year, campus safety and security policies and crime statistics. The University of Houston does this in the form of an Annual Security and Fire Safety Report. University community members are notified annually of its availability, and how and where to access the report. The Department of Education is responsible for Clery Act compliance and enforcement. Please choose a topic from the left hand column to get more important information about the Clery Act and your role. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies