Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Welcome and Overview Meet the Staff Academic Calendar Contact Us Grad Events and Calendar Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion News Student Organizations Costs and Funding Giving Resources Graduate Education A-Z Listing Graduate Programs UM/FIU Exchange Associate Deans of Graduate Education Graduate Faculty Graduate Council Graduate Program Review Graduate Program Directors International Credentials & Applicants UOnline Graduate Programs Apply Admissions Representatives On-Campus Graduate Programs UOnline Graduate Programs Policies and Forms Academic Bulletin Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Handbook for Online Students Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook Forming the Thesis/Doctoral Committee Clearance Process for Graduation Forms Graduate Student Honor Code Sexual Misconduct Policies Guidance for Pregnant Students Academic Integrity Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) ETD Process Defense and Submission Deadlines Formatting the ETD Defense Day Essentials Post-Defense Essentials Copyright and Publishing Information About Graduate Education Apply Policies and Forms Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) Search Guidelines for Pregnant Students Academic Integrity Sexual Misconduct Academic Bulletin Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Handbook for Online Students Graduate Student Honor Code Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook Forms Forming the Thesis/Doctoral Committee Clearance Process for Graduation About Welcome and Overview Meet the Staff Academic Calendar Contact Us Grad Events and Calendar Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion News Student Organizations Costs and Funding Giving Resources Graduate Education A-Z Listing Graduate Programs UM/FIU Exchange Associate Deans of Graduate Education Graduate Faculty Graduate Council Graduate Program Review Graduate Program Directors International Credentials & Applicants UOnline Graduate Programs Apply Admissions Representatives On-Campus Graduate Programs UOnline Graduate Programs Policies and Forms Academic Bulletin Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Handbook for Online Students Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook Forming the Thesis/Doctoral Committee Clearance Process for Graduation Forms Graduate Student Honor Code Sexual Misconduct Policies Guidance for Pregnant Students Academic Integrity Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) ETD Process Defense and Submission Deadlines Formatting the ETD Defense Day Essentials Post-Defense Essentials Copyright and Publishing Information Guidelines for Pregnant Students Academic Integrity Sexual Misconduct Academic Bulletin Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Handbook for Online Students Graduate Student Honor Code Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook Forms Forming the Thesis/Doctoral Committee Clearance Process for Graduation About Graduate Education Apply Policies & Forms Electronic Thesis & Dissertation (ETD) Home Policies, Procedures, and Forms Forming the Thesis/Doctoral Committee AAA Forming the Thesis/Doctoral Committee Guidelines for Pregnant Students Academic Integrity Sexual Misconduct Academic Bulletin Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Handbook for Online Students Graduate Student Honor Code Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook Forms Forming the Thesis/Doctoral Committee Clearance Process for Graduation GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply How many members should be on my dissertation/doctoral essay/lecture recital essay committee? Doctoral Degree: For the dissertation/doctoral essay/lecture recital essay committee a student needs no less than four members. The committee chair (i.e. the primary research mentor/advisor), may or may not be from the student's program, department or school (this includes secondary appointments), and must be a permanent member of the Graduate Faculty. Of the remaining members, it is also required that two shall be members of the program or department of concentration (this includes secondary appointments), as well as permanent members of the Graduate Faculty, and one from outside the program or department of concentration. Click here to view the Graduate Faculty Listings page. A thesis or dissertation committee cannot be chaired by a person unless they hold a higher or equivalent degree as the candidate for the graduate degree. Exceptions to the committee composition may be approved by the chair of the department and Dean of the Graduate School. A department, program, or school / college may require additional members. Master’s Degree: The thesis committee will consist of not less than three members. The committee chair must be Regular Faculty from the student’s program or department of concentration (this includes secondary appointments). In addition to the chair, one of the remaining members must also be Regular Faculty or have Graduate Faculty status in the student’s program or department of concentration (Click here to view the Graduate Faculty Listings page); the third member must be an outside member. “Regular Faculty” are faculty having tenured or tenure-earning appointments of a program or department. A thesis or dissertation committee cannot be chaired by a person unless they hold a higher or equivalent degree as the candidate for the graduate degree. Exceptions to the committee composition may be approved by the chair of the department and Dean of the Graduate School. A department, program, or school / college may require additional members. Who would be considered an "outside member" of the committee? An outside member of the committee can be from a UM department outside your area of concentration or from outside the University of Miami altogether. All committee members must be approved by the Chair of your committee. Can I have more than four members on my dissertation/doctoral essay/lecture recital essay committee? Yes, there is no maximum limit of members you can have on your doctoral committee. However, the Graduate School recommends that students have committees that do not exceed six members. Do all committee members need to be present for my defense? Yes, all committee members must be present at and participate in the defense of your thesis or dissertation. If necessary, committee members can participate in the defense via teleconference or Skype. What if one of my committee members retires before I defend? Emeritus faculty can be made permanent members of Graduate Faculty by the Chair of the department. As long as the emeritus professor on your committee is still a member of the Graduate Faculty, he or she can still serve on your committee. What if there is a change to my committee after I have already submitted the Application for Admission to Candidacy form? A Committee Composition Change Request Form must be completed and submitted to the Graduate School for review and approval. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Graduate School 235 Ashe Administration Building 1252 Memorial Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284-4154 (305) 284-4154 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices