Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost University Success Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Contact Information For questions regarding the Committees on Academic Centers and Institutes, please contact Mark Clarke, Associate Provost, Faculty Development and Faculty Affairs at mclarke@central.uh.edu. Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Academic Centers and Institutes (ACIs) draw on the strengths of multiple faculty members, academic departments, and/or colleges to provide an inclusive foundation for collective scholarly activity and foster the sharing of ideas through activities devoted to scholarship, education, training, and/or dissemination that promote the mission of the University. In contrast to ACIs, centers and institutes where research is the primary purpose are designated as Research Organizations (ROs) that are governed by separate MAPP guidelines and are administered by the Division of Research. ACIs are distinguished by their reporting structure. A University-level Center or Institute must be interdisciplinary, involving multiple colleges, and/or departments. A University-level ACI reports directly to the Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost (SVPAA/P). ACIs may also have a reporting structure at the level of the College or Department and may or may not be interdisciplinary. A College-level ACI reports to the Dean of the College and typically (but not necessarily) involves multiple departments. A Department-level ACI reports to the Departmental Chair, and is usually centered on activities of faculty within that department. Both College-level and Department-level ACIs may expand to include other faculty and departments across colleges to reach a level where the ACI could apply for designation as a University-level ACI reporting to the SVPAA/P. Members of the Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes are appointed by the Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost from a pool of nominees submitted by College Deans and the Faculty Senate. Appointments are for two-year terms with the possibility of reappointment. Committee Members T. Randall Lee Committee Chair Cullen Distinguished University Chair, NSM Dusya Vera Professor Business Barbara Evans Professor Law Catherine Horn Associate Professor Education Rex Koontz Professor Arts Ezemenari M. Obasi Associate Professor Education Paul Ruchhoeft Associate Professor Engineering Lynn Voskuil Associate Professor Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Administrative Guidelines, Policies and Procedures Bylaws of the Committee for Academic Centers and Institutes Guidelines for Establishing and Operating ACIs Annual Report Guidelines for ACIs Guidelines for Terminating ACIs List of Academic Centers and Institutes University-Level Centers and Institutes Name of Center/Institute Activities Scope Director or Contact Email Phone Advancing Community Engagement and Service Institute (ACES) Service Learning / Community Engagement University-wide Dr. Anne McClellan amcclellan@uh.edu (713)743-0750 Asian American Studies Center (AASC) Education/Research University-wide Dr. Yali Zou yzou@uh.edu (713)743-4982 Center for Information Security Research and Education (CISRE) Education/Research University-wide Dr. William Arthur Conklin waconkli@central.uh.edu (713)743-1556 Center for Mexican American and Latino Studies (CMALS) Education/Research University-wide Dr. Pamela Quiroz paquiroz@uh.edu (713)743-3134 Cynthia Woods Mitchell Center for the Arts (CWMCA) Arts University-wide Ms. Melissa Noble mlnoble@uh.edu (713) 743-9726 Humana Integrated Health System Sciences Institute (Humana Institute) Education/Research University-wide Dr. LeChauncy Woodard lwoodard@uh.edu (713) 743-6463 UH STEM Center Education/Research University-wide Dr. Heather Domjan (Interim) hdomjan@uh.edu (713)743-4799 Wolff Center for Entrepreneurship (WCE) Education University-wide Dr. Edward Blair blair@uh.edu (713)743-4565 College-Level Centers and Institutes Name of Center/Institute Activities College Director or Contact Email Phone All Kids Alliance (AKA) Education/Research Education Bob Wimpelberg rwimpelberg@uh.edu (713)743-5008 Center for International and Comparative Studies (CICS) Education/Scholarly CLASS Dr. Zachary Zwald zjzwald@central.uh.edu (713)743-0409 Center for U.S. and Mexican Law (US MEX LAW) Research/Scholarly Law Alfonso Lopez de la Osa Escribao alopezde@central.uh.edu (713)743-6137 Environment, Energy & Natural Resource Center (EENR) Education/Scholarly Law Dr. Victor Flatt Dr. Gina Warren vflatt@uh.edu gswarren2@uh.edu (713)743-6437 (713) 743-8404 Ethics Center Education/Scholarly Hobby Dr. Daniel Engster daengste@central.uh.edu (713)743-7367 Gutierrez Energy Management Institute (GEMI) Education/Research Business Dr. Praveen Kumar pkumar@uh.edu (713)743-4770 Health Law & Policy Institute (HLPI) Research/Scholarly Law Dr. Jessica Roberts jroberts7@uh.edu (713)743-2105 Houston Area Teacher Center (HATC) Education Education Dr. Amber Thompson ammeuth@uh.edu (713)743-5024 Institute for Educational Policy, Research, and Evaluation (IEPRE) Education/Research Education Dr. Cathy Horn chorn@central.uh.edu (713)743-5032 Institute for Health Care Marketing (IHCM) Education/Research Business Dr. Partha Krishnamurthy partha@uh.edu (713)743-4576 Institute for Intellectual Property & Information Law (IPIL) Education/Scholarly Law Dr. Greg Vetter gvetter@uh.edu (713)743-3596 Institute for Research on Women, Gender & Sexuality (IRWGS) Education/Research CLASS Dr. Elizabeth Gregory egregory@uh.edu 713-743-0938 Sales Excellence Institute (SEI) Education/Research Business Dr. Ed Blair blair@uh.edu (713)743-4565 Sasakawa International Center for Space Architecture (SICSA) Education/Research Engineering Dr. Olga Bannova obannova@central.uh.edu (713)743-2352 Stanford Alexander Center for Excellence in Real Estate (SACERE) Education/Scholarly Business Mr. Keith Richards krichards@bauer.uh.edu (713)743-2522 UH Coastal Center (UCC) Education/Research NSM Dr. Steven Pennings scpennin@central.uh.edu (713)743-2989 Department-Level Centers and Institutes Name of Center/Institute Activities Department Director or Contact Email Phone Center for Immigration Research (CIR) Scholarly Sociology Dr. Pamela Quiroz paquiroz@central.uh.edu (713)743-3134 Center for Innovative Grouting Materials and Technology (CIGMAT) Education/Research Civil Engineering Dr. C. Vipulanandan cvipulanandan@uh.edu (713)743-4278 Center for Public History (CPH) Education/Research History Dr. Monica Perales mperales3@uh.edu (713)743-3003 Center for the Study of African American Culture (CSAAC) Education/Research African American Studies Dr. Linda Reed (Interim) aasz@central.uh.edu (713)743-3092 Language and Culture Center (LCC) Education English Dr. Jodi Nelms jnelms3@central.uh.edu (713)743-0541 University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies