Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Hall of Distinction JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Climate & the Environment Energy Geosciences Marine Geosciences Planetary Sciences & Geobiology Solid Earth & Tectonic Processes Surface & Hydrologic Processes Research Disciplines Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Advising Admissions Internal Transfers Degrees Offered Jackson Scholars Program Honors Program Financial Support Courses & Catalogs Field Experiences Why Geosciences? TNT 2021 Graduate Advising Admissions Degrees Offered EER Graduate Program Find a Supervisor Financial Support Courses & Catalogs External Grants & Scholarships Graduate Studies Committee Advising & Program Coordination Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services Career Center Geology Library Holland Family Student Center People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Chemical or Physical Hydrogeology Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Structural Geology/Tectonics JSG Community Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Research Scientists Postdocs Staff Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Desk Blogs Texas Geosciences Science Y’all In the News Scientist Profiles Newsletter 2015 Newsletter 2014 Newsletter PDF Archive Media Contacts Events DeFord Lecture Series Master’s Saturday Heads/Chairs on the Future of Undergraduate Geoscience Education Workshop Summit Materials, PowerPoints and Webcast Archive Background Reading Agenda Graduation Distinguished Lectures Association Meetings GSA 2014 SEG 2012 GSA 2012 2011 Meetings DGS Vehicle Reservation Calendar Submit an Event Skip to main content Close Search Bar Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies SearchMake a Gift About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Units Offices Contacts Diversity and Inclusion JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Graduate Advising Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services People JSG Directory Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Employment Opportunities Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Office Blogs In the News Newsletter Media Contacts Events Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Association Meetings Summits JSG Graduation Menu Home News Dean’s Office Claudia Mora Welcome to the Dean’s Office Welcome to the Dean’s Office, a place for updates and messages about the Jackson School of Geosciences, including the latest edition of Chat With the Dean. If you’d like to ask me something, you can submit a question for me to answer at my next Chat With the Dean, or send me an email. My door is open to all! Profile Contact A monthly video chat with Dean Mora covering news, updates, and other happenings from across the Jackson School of Geosciences. Submit a Question Watch Past Chats April 4, 2022 Congratulations to the Student Research Symposium Winners! JSG Community, Please join me in congratulating the winners of our 11th Annual Student Symposium held on Saturday, March 26. Our alumni and JSG judges… Read More January 20, 2022 Taking Care in the New Semester Dear Jackson School Community, Another semester has started, and in “Groundhog Day” fashion, we have had to make a temporary retreat from in-person classes in… Read More October 21, 2021 Introducing the Jackson School’s First Associate Dean for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Dear Jackson School community, I am pleased to announce the selection of the Jackson School of Geosciences’ new Associate Dean for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion,… Read More September 3, 2021 Welcome Back! Jackson School friends, It is fantastic to see students back in our halls and classrooms again! The past year and a half has been very… Read More March 23, 2021 The Jackson School Community Supports its Asian and AAPI Members Dear Jackson School Community, Over the past year, the difficult social circumstances and economic uncertainty brought by the pandemic, and heightened emotions spurred by the… Read More March 15, 2021 Marking One Year While Looking Ahead Jackson School Community, This note marks my first anniversary as dean of the Jackson School. A year ago, none of us imagined how deeply the… Read More March 8, 2021 Congratulations to 10th Annual Student Research Symposium Winners Jackson School Community, Thank you to everyone who took part in the 10th Annual Student Research Symposium on Saturday. It was exciting to learn first-hand about… Read More March 1, 2021 Emerging Stronger in Texas: A Message from JSG Dean Mora Jackson School Community, I hope this finds everyone warmed up after last week’s Big Chill. Disaster has moved now to recovery- and even faster to… Read More January 4, 2021 Holiday Greetings and Looking Ahead to 2021 Jackson School Community, While the start of a new semester is a time of renewal, excitement and hope for all the semester might bring,… Read More August 28, 2020 Dean’s Update: Welcome Back for the Fall Semester Welcome to all! Congratulations on a smooth start to our Fall semester! A new semester is always a time of hope and possibilities, renewal and excitement…. Read More 1 (current) 2 3 4 Mailing Address Jackson School of Geosciences 2305 Speedway Stop C1160 Austin, TX 78712-1692 Phone (512) 471-6048 Support JSG Departments & Units Department of Geological Sciences Bureau of Economic Geology Institute for Geophysics Administration & Offices College Leadership Career Services Business Services Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Office Helpful Links UT Austin UT Direct Emergency Information IT Help JSG Directory JSG Profiles Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed © 2022 Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader