Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator Dream Loan The California Dream Loan is a subsidized loan program for undergraduate and post baccalaureate students with a valid California Dream Act application* and a valid AB540 affidavit on file with California State University, Fullerton. The purpose of the program is to grant access to additional form of funding to help Dream students afford a public education. Important Note: *T-Visa holders should file a FAFSA and would be considered for Federal Aid eligibility. Disbursement Requirement: 6 units of enrollment is required for a disbursement. Eligibility Requirements To be eligible for the California Dream Loan you must: Have a valid California Dream Act Application completed; priority given to those that filed by March 2nd Must have a valid AB540 affidavit Must be enrolled in at least half-time | 6 units of enrollment or more Demonstrate Financial Need Meeting the Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress Standards Cannot be in default on a student loan Recipients of this funds in one year does not guarantee an awards in subsequent years, due to funding limitation. Current Interest Rates Award Period Interest Rates * July 1, 2018- June 30, 2019 5.05% July 1, 2019- June 30, 2020 4.53% July 1, 2020- June 30, 2021 2.75% July 1, 2021- June 30, 2022 3.73% The interest rate for the California Dream Loan corresponds with the interest rate on Federal Direct Subsidized loans and is subject to change annually. The California Dream Loan does not accrue interest while you are enrolled at least half-time, during the periods of approved deferment, and during the 6-months grace period before you enter repayment. You will be responsible for the interest charged at all other times. * Interest rate is subject to change. Accepting the Dream Loan To accept your California Dream Loan, you must log in to your student portal and accept the loan offer by your assigned deadline. You may decline the loan offer or accept less than what is offered to you, but funds are limited and you may not be able to increase your loan at a later time. Students who accept the California Dream loan must complete a promissory note and entrance counseling yearly. If you fail to complete all the required steps to receive your loan funds by the assigned deadline, your loan may be canceled. Funds are limited and you may not be awarded the funds again at a later date. Requirement: Complete the Master Promissory Note and Entrance Loan Counseling The Master Promissory Note Requires References, your references cannot share the same address. Once you accept your loan, the loan entrance counseling requirement and the master promissory note will be posted on your student center as "to do" items. You will receive an email from ECSI with instructions for completing these items. Once we receive confirmation that you have completed them, they will be removed from your "to do" list. How to Complete the Dream Loan MPN and Counseling | ECSI Log In Instruction Required Information CWID Date of Birth Name Pin Number (Generated by ECSI) Log In Instructions Go to the ECSI Log In Website Click 'Get Started' On the screen it will be ask for SSN, First Name, Last Name, Date Birth Click Submit Click Authenticate Me Enter your ECSI PIN Use your CWID in place of the SSN RETRIEVING ECSI PIN Enter Name in the Required Field Last four Account Number (Last 4 digits of your CWID number) Enter your Date of Birth Enter your Zip Code Submit Once you are log in complete the required field. The counseling requirement requires you to provide two references. Your references may not use the same address. Each reference must have their own address. Repayment You begin repaying your loan at the end of a 6-month grace period. The grace period begins once you graduate, leave school, or enroll in less than half-time. California Dream Loans are set-up to be repaid in monthly installments over a 10-year period and have a minimum payment of $50 a month. You can pay off your loan earlier without penalty. Dream Loan Max Yearly Award | Aggregate Limits Maximum Dream Loan Annual Award at CSUF $4,000 Dream Loan Aggregate Limits Dream Loan Aggregate Limit at CSUF $20,000 FOR ASSISTANce CONTACT ECSI If you are unable to receive your PIN/Password, please contact ECSI at 1-888-549-3274, before attempting to continue. If you received a disbursement for a Dream Loan(s), here's whom to contact for repayment information: Contact the ECSI -- Dream Loan -- Servicer at 1-866-313-3797. Or go to ECSI website: https://efpls.com/ This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/14/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.