Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy psychology News UCF Developing Scam Screener for the Elderly A research team is creating tools to help doctors screen older adults who may be at a higher risk for getting scammed. Knights Do That: Cultivating Positive Workplace Well-being Associate Professor of Psychology Mindy Shoss shares insight on “The Great Resignation,” workplace well-being and what companies can do to promote employee satisfaction. ﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ From Foster Care Youth to Community Advocate First-generation psychology student Diamond Whitley is committed to building a better future for all — especially those in foster care. UCF RESTORES Provides Mental Health Aid at Surfside Condo Collapse Faculty members of UCF RESTORES spent days supporting the mental health of first responders who are working to recover bodies buried in the rubble from the collapse of the Champlain Towers South condo building. New Virtual Reality Technology to Treat PTSD Enters Clinical Trials UCF RESTORES brings renewed sense of hope to those battling trauma Study of COVID’s Impact on Couples to be Shared During Student Research Week Psychology major Victor Blocker will present his work during the Student Scholar Symposium, a part of UCF’s annual celebration of research and scholarship. UCF Researcher Asks: How Does Diversity Affect Dynamics of Space Crews? Doctoral candidate Krisztina Szabo will present her work during Student Research Week, March 29-April 2. How Fake News Affects U.S. Elections UCF Lecturer Chrysalis Wright, who was appointed to the UN’s Communications Coordination Committee, shares insight on one of the threats to our democracy. UCF Professor Wins Another National Award for his Work in Human Factors UCF psychology Professor Peter Hancock has been named the Aerospace Human Factors Association’s William Collins Award recipient for 2020. This is the second time Hancock… UCF Awarded $170K Grant to Explore Cybersecurity Risks Amid COVID-19 UCF faculty members Clay Posey and Mindy Shoss will research behaviors of temporary work-from-home employees. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida