Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY Menu Search Visit Apply Give FROM HERE, IT'S POSSIBLE™ Apply Visit Give ADMISSIONS RESEARCH RAIDER LIFE ATHLETICS ABOUT COVID-19 Raiderlink Directory Alumni Sites A-Z Undergraduate Explore your passions while building a strong foundation for your future. Choose from over 150 degree programs and kickoff your career at Texas Tech. From here, it’s possible™. Find Your Way International Our diverse campus and comprehensive academic and research offerings provide the educational experience you need in an environment where you will thrive. Start Your Journey Graduate As one of 94 Carnegie Very High Research Activity public universities, Texas Tech offers the programs, facilities, and support that graduate students need to excel. From here, it’s possible™. Continue Your Path School of Law As the Best Value Law School in Texas (National Jurist, Fall 2019), Texas Tech Law takes a student-first approach with a focus on real-world practical skills. Make Your Ruling School of Veterinary Medicine The newest School of Veterinary Medicine in the state, and the first in Texas in over 100 years, provides classroom and community-based learning to educate the next generation of veterinarians. Take the Reins Majors & Colleges Our thirteen colleges and schools host hundreds of degree programs, research opportunities, and practical learning experiences to prepare you for your future. Explore Your Options Office of Research & Innovation Our thirteen colleges and schools host hundreds of degree programs, research opportunities, and practical learning experiences to prepare you for your future. Discover The Unexpected Texas Tech Today - Research Revolutionary research is conducted at Texas Tech, a Carnegie Tier One Research Institution. Don’t take our word for it. Here’s the proof. Investigate The Ingenuity TTU Scholars Search activity from over 1,100 Texas Tech researchers by college, name or topic. Our Experts Innovation Hub From ideas to impact, The Hub assists in the formation of new business solutions to create social and commercial value. Ignite a Spark Find Funding To assist faculty in securing competitive research funding, we provide financial support for proposals, publication, and innovative interdisciplinary research projects. Fund Your Future Develop & Submit Proposal If additional support from outside sources is necessary to fulfill your needs, you can find a step-by-step process on how to write engaging proposals and secure more funding here. Prepare Your Proposal Entrepreneurial Programs Craving some competition or needing opportunities for growth? The Innovation Hub offers several programs that can satisfy your needs. Participate In A Program Discoveries Catch up on the latest research happening at Texas Tech. From cotton to glassblowing, black holes and startups, exciting work is happening here. Discover Research Map 1,800 acres is a lot of campus, from residence halls and academic buildings to bus stops and dining options, find your way around Texas Tech. Navigate Your Journey University Student Housing Where you choose to call your home away from home is an important decision. See all the options Texas Tech has to offer. Reveal Your Residence Dining on Campus From delivery to takeout, it’s never been easier to dine on campus. With a plethora of food choices, mobile ordering and contactless payment options, you’ll have no problem feeding your inner Red Raider. Eat With Ease University Recreation Go for a leisurely swim, climb a wall, or compete with friends through Texas Tech’s University Recreation. However you choose to move, we’ve got you covered. Flex Your Fitness Student Engagement Build relationships that last a lifetime. Texas Tech is home to more than 450 student organizations and clubs, many competing with peers around the country. Engage In The Excitement Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion At Texas Tech we Foster, Affirm, Celebrate, Engage, and Strengthen inclusive communities. We are committed to your success. Tell Your Story Health, Safety & Wellness Ensuring a safe environment is Texas Tech’s top priority. When an emergency arises, there’s help. From health and counseling services to emergency communications, Campus Police and more, you’re covered. Here to Help Student Resources Need career advice, a mentor, financial guidance, or a book to read? Student Resources has your back. Reveal Your Resources Athletics Raider Power resides here. On or off the field, Texas Tech’s athletic teams represent the university with pride. From football to baseball, volleyball, and track and field, we have our bases covered. Support Our Teams Shop Official TTU Gear Can’t hide that Red Raider pride? Find everything you need to show your support of Texas Tech here. From hats, T-shirts, sweaters and more, shop the official store. Grab Your Gear Ticketing Cheer on the Red Raiders as we compete across 17 varsity sports in the Big 12 Conference. Our new mobile ticketing makes it easy to get the best seats in town. Secure Your Spot Red Raider Club Support for student-athletes is found here. From educational and nutritional needs to training facilities and leadership development, funds from the Red Raider Club help our student-athletes succeed. Support Student-Athletes Texas Tech Facts 40,322 students. 225,000 alumni. 1,832 acres of campus beauty. Test your Red Raider trivia knowledge right here. Check The Facts Our Campus Discover what makes Texas Tech stand out from the crowd. From our traditions to housing, dining, and health, get all the details. Explore Texas Tech Office of the President Dr. Lawrence Schovanec's commitment to Texas Tech is reflected in the pivotal achievements of the university. About the President Office of the Provost Here is where you’ll discover the academic mission of Texas Tech as well as find resources for students and faculty. Learn More News & Updates Thrilling projects; groundbreaking research; community involvement; perseverance in trialing times. Those stories are told here. Be In The Know History & Traditions Our rich, vibrant history extends back to 1923. Don’t know about Guns Up, Soapsuds or Carol of Lights®? Look no further. Research Our Roots University Strategic Plan What we do in the present is predicated on what we want for the future. Texas Tech is pursuing a foundation for its next century of successes. Our current Strategic Plan provides a pathway to 2025. Focus on the Future Academic Calendar Need to know when classes start, spring break happens, or when its finals week? Our up-to-date academic calendar can help you better plan your semester. Save The Dates Career Opportunities Work somewhere that values you and treats you like family. At Texas Tech, you’ll be embraced like family and empowered to advance your career. Peruse Open Positions Administration It takes a village to raise a university. Behind Texas Tech stands leaders who carry out the roles and responsibilities necessary to keep it running. A Look At Leadership Organizational Chart Know the flow of Texas Tech from the top, down. Check The Chart SEARCH Close Close Close Search menu Suggested Topics Undergraduate Explore your passions while building a strong foundation for your future. Choose from over 150 degree programs and kickoff your career at Texas Tech. From here, it’s possible™. Find Your Way International Our diverse campus and comprehensive academic and research offerings provide the educational experience you need in an environment where you will thrive. Start Your Journey ELearning Our eLearning & Academic Partnerships allow students to further their education from anywhere. With more than 80 programs available, you can find something that fits your needs. Learn from Anywhere COVID-19 Find resources and important notices about coronavirus (COVID-19). Read all Texas Tech campus communications and safety recommendations. Stay Informed (Video only) Students talking outside; Close up of student laughing; Overhead shot of students exiting academic building; Faculty member teaching students in classroom; Close up of Raider Red at athletic event; Students cheering at athletic event; Faculty member teaching students in outdoor environment FROM HERE, IT'S POSSIBLE™ Scroll Down I am a: PROSPECTIVE STUDENT Prospective Student Red Raider Parent Visitor Find My Major Unsure of where your future can take you? Learn about every major Texas Tech has to offer. Prepare for success Financial Aid Information about scholarships, student employment and military and veterans services is found here. Afford Your Future Schedule a Tour Contemplating coming to Texas Tech or newly enrolled? Take a tour of Raiderland to see the historic buildings and learn your way around campus. Visit Texas Tech Apply Now Already decided that you're a future Red Raider? Get started on your application today. Start Here BELONG AT TEXAS TECH 1ST GEN HISPANIC SERVING TRANSFER VETERAN INTERNATIONAL GRADUATE Texas Tech Today Interested in feature stories, current research or upcoming events happening on campus? All Texas Tech-related news lives here. Read All About It Red Raider Athletics Raider Power resides here. On or off the field, Texas Tech’s athletic teams represent the university with pride. Support Our Teams Event Calendar Stay up to date on the latest events happening on and off campus. Explore Campus Events President’s Report Life at the university has many facets. Review the highlights and achievements students, faculty, staff and alumni have accomplished in the past year. Read the Wrap-up Narrator: Where innovation meets opportunity. This is where you find your voice, your passion, your seat at the table. This is Texas Tech. Red Raiders around the world are making an impact. The inspiration that starts inside the labs and classrooms on campus fuels our community, our state and our planet. Together, we are more than 40,000 voices raising one chorus 'We are Fearless Champions', and together, we are celebrating those who have paved the way, while giving future Red Raiders to be world- changers. To be a Red Raider means something. It means determination and grit, it means a diverse and inclusive tier-one education. It means making a difference. I am a pioneer, I am a visionary, I am a first-generation college student, I am helping to make a difference, I am a Red Raider. Narrator: Hi, Red Raider parents. At Texas Tech, we want to make the college experience amazing for your student. From parent and family orientation, to family weekends and days throughout the academic year, you have many opportunities to stay engaged with your student and see first-hand the strength of the Red Raider family. You can also get connected with our Parent and Family Relations Office here on campus, or join the optional membership-based Texas Tech Parent's Association. We look forward to seeing you on campus. And remember, from here, it's possible. Campus Visit Visiting? Find your way around Lubbock and the Texas Tech campus as well as what to do while you’re in town. Tour Parking Map Texas Tech Parents Association Have a child attending Texas Tech? Resources for Red Raider parents are readily available here. Join the Association Parent & Family Relations Parents and family members can stay up to date on campus news, support their students and connect with other parents. Find Support Commencement Prepare for the celebration! Keep up with schedules, resources and FAQs related to graduation. Walk the Stage Explore Texas Tech Navigating one of the largest university campuses can be daunting. Everything you need to discover Texas Tech, from tours to maps to parking information, is here. Visit Lubbock Tour Map Parking Featured Campus Art Trail More than 100 original works of art grace the Texas Tech System campuses. Take a tour to experience all the beauty planted in Texas Tech’s backyard. Experience the Artwork Red Raider Athletics Raider Power resides here. On or off the field, Texas Tech’s athletic teams represent the university with pride. Support Our Teams Event Calendar Stay up to date on the latest events happening on and off campus. Explore Campus Events @TexasTech Tag us in your post, and your wonderful photos could be featured on our homepage! Youtube Click to open TTU official Youtube channel in a new browser tab Facebook Click to open TTU official Facebook page in a new browser tab Twitter Click to open TTU official Twitter page in a new browser tab Instagram Click to open TTU official Instagram page in a new browser tab TikTok Click to open TTU official TikTok page in a new browser tab. @MAGALYB123 @DWILLXTRILL @MIKAYLABBALLENGER @TEXASTECHWTEN @TexasTech Tag us in your post, and your wonderful photos could be featured on our homepage! Youtube Click to open TTU official Youtube channel in a new browser tab Facebook Click to open TTU official Facebook page in a new browser tab Twitter Click to open TTU official Twitter page in a new browser tab Instagram Click to open TTU official Instagram page in a new browser tab TikTok Click to open TTU official TikTok page in a new browser tab. @TTUMENSGOLF @AIWILSONN @BYSARAHELIZABETH_ @CAMRYNRIVAS We’re Here to help you Don’t see what you’re looking for? Find answers to questions about Texas Tech University through our new chat feature. CHAT NOW Achievement Texas Tech's Growth Texas Tech's Growth, Advancements Over Last Decade Highlighted by Enrollment Goal. The push for 40,000, student success and research growth enhance Texas Tech's national stature. READ MORE Research Saving the World by Storm Though it’s hundreds of miles from the Gulf of Mexico, Texas Tech University has produced one of the leading teams in hurricane wind research. READ MORE Achievement Davis College Receives $44 Million Gift Gordon and Joyce Davis choose Texas Tech agriculture college, now Davis College, for a $44 million gift – the largest in Texas Tech University history. READ MORE Texas Tech Today Featured News Read more on Texas Tech Today Immerse The center at Junction offers Texas Tech University courses in three 15-day sessions. READ MORE Texas Tech University - Costa Rica Graduates... The graduating class from the new campus had six graduates, all representing the College of Human Sciences. READ MORE Texas Tech, College of Engineering Grant... (VIDEO) Matthew’s dream of attending college with his tuition paid will be fulfilled. READ MORE The Long Road to Raiderland Ruben Exum is proving the best things are worth the wait. READ MORE Students to Participate in Spring 2022... Texas Tech will hold its spring commencement ceremonies May 13-14 at United Supermarkets Arena. READ MORE Motherhood is a Dance With Mother’s Day around the corner, Ali Duffy, an associate professor of dance, shares her research on what it means to be a mother and artist, and how to create more equitable spaces for parents in the professional arts. READ MORE VIEW BY CATEGORY Category Drop down Click to open reveal categories of TTU news Academics Achievements Campus Life COVID-19 TTU Commitment Veterinary School Texas Tech In the News Diversity Select a category above to view stories from our most popular categories. You can read all of the latest news and updates on Texas Tech Today. Read on Texas Tech Today Featured EVENTS Jun 01 Summer Classes Summer I continues through June 30, 2022. Jun 02 Summer Classes Summer I continues through June 30, 2022. Jun 03 Summer Classes Summer I continues through June 30, 2022. View full Calendar Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 STAY CONNECTED Like Texas Tech University on Facebook Like Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitter Follow Texas Tech University on twitter Follow Texas Tech University on Instagram Follow Texas Tech University on Instagram Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 24, 2022 12:53 PM Texas Tech University Admissions Texas Tech University Admissions Back Undergraduate Texas Tech University Admissions Undergraduate Back First-time Students Transfer Students International Texas Tech - Costa Rica Other Admission Graduate Texas Tech University Admissions Graduate Back How to Apply Graduate Programs Available School of Law Texas Tech University Admissions School of Law Back Application Process Frequently Asked Questions Academics Texas Tech University Academics Back Majors & Colleges Texas Tech University Academics Majors & Colleges Back Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs School of Law Worldwide eLearning University Libraries Colleges & Schools Texas Tech University Academics Colleges & Schools Back College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources College of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Jerry S. Rawls College of Business Administration College of Education Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Honors College College of Human Sciences College of Media & Communication J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Graduate School School of Law School of Veterinary Medicine Research Alumni Texas Tech University Alumni Back Alumni Community Texas Tech University Alumni Alumni Community Back Texas Tech Alumni Association Institutional Advancement Texas Tech Red Raider Club Campus Life Texas Tech University Campus Life Back Campus Life Texas Tech University Campus Life Campus Life Back University Student Housing Getting Around Campus Dining on Campus Recreational Sports Our Campus Visit TTU Student Life Texas Tech University Campus Life Student Life Back Center for Campus Life Student Union & Activities Fraternity & Sorority Life Spirit Squads Student Organizations Student Leadership & Involvement History & Traditions Student Rec Center Health, Safety & Wellness Texas Tech University Campus Life Health, Safety & Wellness Back Emergency Communications Center Student Counseling Center Student Health Services Center for the Study of Addiction and Recovery Health Insurance Responsible Community Living Campus Police Behavioral Intervention Team Risk Intervention & Safety Education (RISE) Student Resources Texas Tech University Campus Life Student Resources Back Current Students Student Handbook Dean of Students University Career Center Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Academic Support Red to Black - Student Financial Planning University ID Card Athletics About Texas Tech University About Back Texas Tech University Texas Tech University About Texas Tech University Back Office of the President Office of the Provost University Outreach and Engagement Texas Tech Facts Rankings Our Campus Administrative Offices University Strategic Plan TTU Resources Texas Tech University About Back Texas Tech Today Campus Map Academic Calendar Giving Work at Texas Tech Faculty & Staff State Employee Charitable Campaign (SECC) Organizational Chart TTU Experts Guide