Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Programs Woods College of Advancing Studies Undergraduate Programs Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Woods College of Advancing Studies The James A. Woods, S.J., College of Advancing Studies offers both full and part-time study to undergraduate and graduate students from widely differing backgrounds and preparations who wish to maximize their experiences and master the skills necessary to advance their future. Boston College fosters in its students rigorous intellectual development coupled with religious, ethical, and personal formation in order to prepare them for citizenship, service, and leadership in a global society. Within the context of the Boston College environment, James A. Woods, S.J., College of Advancing Studies promotes the care and attention to the human person that is the hallmark of Jesuit education while faculty and students engage in scholarship that enriches the culture and addresses important societal needs. Undergraduate Programs The James A. Woods, S.J., College of Advancing Studies offers the atmosphere of a small college within the environment of a large university. The professional staff at the James A. Woods, S.J., College of Advancing Studies have experience helping students arrange a realistic program of study, one that combines work responsibilities with educational goals. Students receive personal attention while enjoying access to the many resources of Boston College. A flexible admission process coupled with academic advising allows a student to select the most appropriate major based on individual needs. Courses are ordinarily scheduled between the hours of 6:15–9:35 p.m. on weekdays, with online and hybrid courses also available. Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Faculty Woods College of Advancing Studies Website Bachelor of Arts Program B.A., Applied Liberal Arts B.A., Communication B.A., Corporate Systems B.A., Criminal and Social Justice B.A., Economics B.A., Information Systems B.A., Natural Sciences B.A., Psychology Fifth Year and Advanced Standing Programs for Boston College Students Academic Honors Professional Studies Certificates Non-Degree and Visiting Students Bachelor of Arts Program The Bachelor of Arts program prepares students to address and master the challenges of a rapidly changing and increasingly complex world. A broad-based and robust liberal arts curriculum, which includes Core requirements, permits students to choose courses and majors reflecting individual interests and varied career objectives. The curriculum offers intensive work and a degree of disciplined mastery in a major area. Print Open All Close All Degree Requirements and Core Curriculum Degree Requirements and Core Curriculum A distinguishing characteristic of liberal arts education is a required Core curriculum. The Bachelor of Arts programs require the following Core courses: The Examined Life Woods College Formative Seminar 2 English courses: College Writing Literary Works or other Core literature course 2 Philosophy courses (one of which should be an Ethics course) 2 Theology courses 2 Social Science courses 2 History courses (1 must be non-Western) 1 Quantitative Reasoning course 1 Natural Science course 1 Arts course 1 Engaging Diverse Perspectives Course The Purposeful Life Designing Your Career Degree candidates must fulfill all Core curriculum and major requirements as part of earning the minimum of 120 credits. Students are required to achieve a minimum cumulative GPA of 1.67 to be eligible to graduate. Transfer of Credit and Residency Requirements: External to BC Transfer of Credit and Residency Requirements: External to BC At the B.A. level, a minimum of 60 credits must be completed at Boston College to satisfy residency requirements, and a maximum of 60 credits from regionally accredited institutions, CLEP exams, or Joint Service Transcripts may be transferred into a student’s program. Courses from regionally accredited institutions with a grade of C or better may be accepted for transfer credits; only courses with a minimum of 3 credits will be considered for transfer to satisfy a Woods College program requirement. Courses with fewer than 3 credits will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis for transfer as elective credit. For all students, transfer credits must be submitted for evaluation by the conclusion of your first semester of study at the Woods College. College Credit through Examination College Credit through Examination Students will only be awarded up to a total of 15 credits from the combination of CLEP and DSST examinations. College-Level Examination Program (CLEP) and DANTES Subject Standardized Tests (DSST) offer students the opportunity to earn college credits through examination, by demonstrating comprehensive knowledge of college-level material gained through independent or prior study. The Woods College of Advancing Studies will accept up to 15 credits from the combination the CLEP and DSST examinations. The Woods College recognizes the American Council on Education’s college credit recommendations for each CLEP and DSST exam. Those recommendations can be found on the CLEP website and the DSST website. Current students must consult with their academic advisor prior to taking CLEP/DSST exams for credit to verify that any CLEP/DSST exam will support the student’s program of study. Students seeking admission to the Woods College should consult an admissions advisor for evaluation of how previously taken CLEP/DSST exams will impact their program of study. Joint Service Transcripts Joint Service Transcripts Students who have served in the United States armed forces typically have college-level credit. The American Council on Education (ACE) has worked with the U.S. military to evaluate many of the service members’ training modules. They have recommended college-level credit for many of these trainings, and the Woods College of Advancing Studies recognizes that training for possible transfer credit. When evaluating ACE credit recommendations for transfer, the Woods College will consider trainings that map onto courses or disciplines that Boston College offers. For example, a recommendation for 3 credits for Computer Applications would transfer as 3 credits within the Information Systems discipline. A recommendation of 3 credits for Aircraft Maintenance would not be eligible for transfer as Boston College does not offer any courses in this area. Please consult an academic advisor during the admissions process to evaluate how many of the ACE credit recommendations on your Joint Service Transcripts (JST) might transfer into your program of study at Boston College. At this time Boston College will accept up to 30 credits through the JST. Any CLEP credits a student may have would also count towards this 30-credit limit. For example, a student with 9 credits through CLEP would be allowed to bring in 21 credits through the JST. Or a student with 24 JST credits would be allowed to bring in 6 credits through CLEP exams. Students should submit their official JST for evaluation prior to the conclusion of your first semester of study at the Woods College. Taking Courses at Other Institutions Taking Courses at Other Institutions Students enrolled in the Woods College as degree students must follow the curriculum prescribed by the college. Once a student matriculates, courses may not be taken at other institutions for credit in a Boston College degree program without the prior approval from the Dean. Courses taken at other institutions will be treated as transfer credits and would count against the 60 credits students are allowed to transfer into their program of study. If you wish to take courses outside of Boston College, please consult with your academic advisor. Students who have taken leaves of absence, exmatriculated, or otherwise interrupted their studies at the Woods College are not eligible for transfer credit for courses taken during their absence from the Woods College. To petition an exception to this policy, you must meet with your academic advisor and submit a written petition to the academic team. The academic team will issue a final decision. This permission will only be granted under extenuating circumstances. Transfer of Credit and Residency Requirements: Internal BC Students Transfer of Credit and Residency Requirements: Internal BC Students Current Boston College students transferring to the Woods College of Advancing Studies must submit a Woods College Bachelor of Arts Degree Application at bc.edu/woodsapply. The following conditions will apply to all transfers of credit from any other Boston College schools into the Woods College of Advancing Studies: All courses taken at any other school within Boston College and the GPA earned will transfer to the Woods College of Advancing Studies. All incoming credits will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis to determine applicability within the program of study the student chooses to pursue at Woods College of Advancing Studies. A minimum of 12 credits (equivalent to one full-time semester of study) will be required to be taken at Woods College of Advancing Studies. For students in a degree program at Woods College, the maximum course load is three per semester. A maximum of three courses over the duration of the two summer sessions may be taken. Course overloads (one additional course) will be considered on a case-by-case basis, pending an evaluation of academic performance. To request a course overload, make an appointment with your academic advisor. Advisor and academic team approval is required to process a registration for a course overload. Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Admission Applications for admission may be submitted at any time and are reviewed on a rolling basis. The following documentation is required: Completed online application form; Official transcripts from high school and colleges previously attended; Two essays (requirements are found on the application); Optional SAT or ACT scores; Two letters of recommendation; and If English is not your primary language, then English Language Proficiency with an IELTS score of 6.5–7.5 or TOEFFL score of 90–100. Please see the Woods College website for further details on how to apply. Degree Programs and Certificate Degree Programs and Certificate Woods College offers the following undergraduate majors: Applied Liberal Arts (ALA) English (ALA Concentration) History (ALA Concentration) Interdisciplinary Studies (ALA Concentration) Philosophy (ALA Concentration) Political Science (ALA Concentration) Sociology (ALA Concentration) Communication Corporate Systems Criminal and Social Justice Economics Information Systems Natural Sciences Psychology Woods College also offers an undergraduate-level certificate in Sustainability. Applied Liberal Arts (ALA) helps clarify connections between your education and your life, your job, and your future. The critical thinking, ethical reasoning, and cultural literacy skills valued by today’s employers are hallmarks of a liberal arts education. Our program also provides courses in high-demand workplace essentials such as project management, data visualization and analysis, design thinking, and conflict resolution. Print Open All Close All Curriculum Curriculum You'll pursue a major in Applied Liberal Arts while earning a concentration in one of six areas. You'll complete six major requirements and either five or six courses within a specific concentration. Major Requirements Major Requirements Project Management This course takes a 360-degree perspective on project management, incorporating the important peripheral elements that influence the discipline. This course helps students develop practical skills for functioning in a variety of roles on projects, including project manager, while developing an appreciation for the importance of governance and project and portfolio management (PPM) in any work environment, looking at the concept and the practice of projects from the perspective of participant, practitioner, and executive sponsor. Data Visualization or Programming Data Visualization A picture is worth a thousand words. We are in a world full of data and information; the demand for data analytics and visualization skills is growing rapidly nowadays. Data visualization is a critical part of data science. It is an effective way to communicate insights from data through visual presentation. We use data visualization to identify hidden patterns and reveal relationships to show trends in data and tell the full story of the data. In this course, students are introduced to the foundations of data visualization along with various data visualization tools. We will introduce the key design principles, how to present data using a number of common data visualization tools (such as Excel and Tableau software). This course will provide students from all backgrounds the opportunity to learn data skills and have hands-on experience working with various datasets, creating visualizations and telling data stories. Students will develop data visualization skills that can be applied to their fields of study and future career. Topics covered include best practices in use of color, visualization principles, static and interactive visualizations, visualization types, etc. Programming Courses JavaScript: This course teaches students the fundamental concepts of programming (coding). First, we will define what a programming language is and then we will learn its grammar and syntax. We will learn about variables, conditionals, and iteration. We will also learn about arrays, functions, and objects. We will use the industry-standard JavaScript programming language to put into practice all of these concepts. Designed specifically for individuals who have little-to-no programming experience, this course teaches participants in a project-based environment how to code JavaScript, the language of the web. During this course students will (1) learn how to think of problems logically and computationally, (2) use programming tools to express themselves creatively as they learn the fundamentals of coding, and (3) create real-world applications. Python: This course is meant for any student interested in learning computer programming concepts with the Python programming language. We will cultivate our problem-solving abilities as we develop programs in Python. This course is suitable for students that have little to no programming experience. We will start with the basics as we discuss logical decisions and loops. Further, we will explore Python data structures such as tuples, sets, lists, and dictionaries. We will couple this knowledge to make our own classes as we learn about object-oriented programming. We will also discover basic debugging techniques throughout the semester. At the end of this course, we will have learned enough concepts to be able to compose Python programs that solve problems on their own. C++: An introduction to programming with C++. This course is meant for students with little or no programming experience. We will start with the basics of programming using the C++ programming language. C++ is the cornerstone programming language used to develop many of the fundamental applications we use on a daily basis. For example, operating systems, web browsers, and other programming languages such as Java, Python, and SQL are built with C++. We will use the low-level nature of the C++ programming language to learn about the fundamental aspects of how a computer works. In this course we will develop basic command line applications, explore how data is stored in memory and how we may use logic to manipulate the data to produce different results. Conflict Resolution and Negotiation This course presents specific tools for improving people skills in preparing for and conducting negotiations. It examines the characteristics of different negotiating situations, leadership and decision-making functions, interpersonal communication, the intercultural community, management strategies, and factors affecting which negotiation style most enhances communication. Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation This course will introduce students to the basics of data analysis and interpretation. Students will critically engage with actual data from across disciplines in order to develop their own interpretations of the underlying meaning. We will explore how these skills can apply to making decisions in academic, professional, and community contexts. The skills developed and practiced here will assist the students in critically evaluating and drawing meaning from data as well as making well-informed decisions from that data. Design Thinking and Creativity Design Thinking is human-centered, creative problem solving. It seeks to tackle tough problems by examining what is economically possible, systemically viable, and desirable to the constituents of focus. It is a process that overcomes many of the challenges to innovation today—preference for or comfort in the status quo—while remaining true to human nature at the center of most problems. This course seeks to introduce students to the concept of Design Thinking, its foundational principles, and the application of these principles to real-world issues. At its heart, this is a methods course that asks students to reframe problems in new ways so that creative solutions might arise from a reframing of the problem. Integrative Capstone This course closes out the degree. It's meant to be taken after completing all major requirements (though not necessarily all degree requirements). You may take it concurrently with the final courses for the major if you are scheduled to graduate in the given semester. Core Curriculum Core Curriculum A distinguishing characteristic of liberal arts education is a required Core curriculum. The Bachelor of Arts programs require the following Core courses: The Examined Life Woods College Formative Seminar 2 English courses: College Writing Literary Works or other Core literature course 2 Philosophy courses (one of which should be an Ethics course) 2 Theology courses 2 Social Science courses 2 History courses (1 must be non-Western) 1 Quantitative Reasoning course 1 Natural Science course 1 Arts course 1 Engaging Diverse Perspectives Course The Purposeful Life Designing Your Career Learning Outcomes Learning Outcomes Critical Thinking and Problem-Solving Examine, and dissect the assumptions and conventions of different areas of study, while addressing complex questions, problems, materials, and texts of all types with creative solutions and analytical processes Evaluate and synthesize large amounts of information to execute decisions and devise solutions to problems Formulate creative solutions to complex problems integrating multiple perspectives Quantitative Reasoning Ethically analyze and interpret data from real-world situations to construct creative solutions Develop creative arguments supported by quantitative evidence and communicate numerical data in a variety of formats and mediums utilizing data visualization and other media tools Communication and Information Literacy Find, appraise, organize, use, and convey information and their ideas, both individually and collaboratively, through oral, digital, and written forms. Address both specific and general audiences through various writing genres. Analyze and manage group dynamics and the resolution of conflicts by integrating conflict resolution strategies with the goal of reaching productive outcomes. Produce and present ideas using digital media and storytelling techniques that increase knowledge, foster understanding, or promote change in listener attitudes, values, beliefs, or behaviors Understand the value and process of working with others and use critical perspectives and skills needed to co-create knowledge with others Acting as Men and Women for and with Others Discern personal and professional responsibilities in order to develop creative solutions that lead to engagement in courageous action that contributes to dismantling unjust structures Integrative learning Reflect on connections among ideas, disciplines, and experiences in order to examine issues, ideas, and events Synthesize and transfer their learning to new and complex situations or issues Diverse Perspectives Demonstrate a nuanced understanding and respect of diverse individuals and perspectives and the application of this understanding to further equity, human rights, and social justice. Applied Liberal Arts Concentrations Print Open All Close All English Concentration English Concentration The English concentration continues to improve upon skills that are first introduced in the College Writing and the Literary Works Core requirements. Continued development of these technical English skills is the central focus of this concentration. Honing these technical skills and developing a strong base in the English language will allow students to best translate those skills into any future discipline. Beyond these required courses, students will be free to select any 4 electives. Students will focus these electives primarily on the broad array of literature courses covering the major time periods and genres, as well as a selection of courses with non-Western roots. Consistent across all literature courses will be an emphasis on developing the essential, and widely transferable, skill of analysis. This exploration of literature will allow students to explore the issues fundamental to the human condition and they will emerge with a deep understanding of how literature both reflects and enhances the lived experience. Concentration Requirements Completion of the Core English requirements: ADEN1054 College Writing and ADEN1060 Literary Works. ADEN1572 Techniques of Precise Expression Four additional English electives, one of which must focus on a non-Western literary genre. Learning Outcomes At the end of the program, students will be able to write at an advanced level. At the end of the program, students will be able to distinguish between and characterize different periods in American and British literature. At the end of the program, students will be able to interpret literature through the lens of class, race, gender, and historical context. At the end of the program, students will be able to criticize works of literature in a thoughtful and responsible way. At the end of the program, students will be able to imaginatively inhabit the perspectives of others. History Concentration History Concentration Deepen your understanding of the present through an immersion in the events and cultures of the past. Our curriculum encompasses European, American, Latin American, African, Middle Eastern, and Asian history ranging from premodernity to today. Classes introduce you to vital areas of historical research and schools of thought. As critical thinkers, students apply tools and concepts of historical inquiry and communicate research results clearly and effectively. Students will engage in primary sources in an attempt to better understand the perspectives and viewpoints of other cultures, civilizations, and people. Students will engage in critical analysis of historical texts to analyze how the interpretation of events is altered based on vantage point. Courses will also encourage students to engage the current events of today by drawing connections to the events of the past. Entering this concentration, students are required to take 5 additional history courses beyond the Core requirements. One of these courses must focus on Latin American, African, Middle Eastern, or Asian history. Concentration Requirements Completion of History Core requirements. Five additional History electives, one of which must focus on Latin American, African, Middle Eastern, or Asian history. Learning Outcomes At the end of the program, students will be able to bring historical research methods and principles of interpretation to bear on research problems. At the end of the program, students will be able to distinguish between and characterize distinct significant events and periods in American, European, and non-Western history. At the end of the program, students will be able to communicate effectively, orally and in writing. At the end of the program, students will be able to apply an ethical framework to the interpretation of historical events. Interdisciplinary Studies Concentration Interdisciplinary Studies Concentration Students choosing to pursue the Interdisciplinary Studies concentration will work with their academic advisor to design a course of study that allows them to draw upon the other disciplines within the ALA major. In designing their concentration, students should make sure to select courses from 3 different disciplines, 2 of which must be within the ALA program. Furthermore, a student may use at most 2 introductory level Core courses toward the completion of this concentration. It will be incumbent upon the student to thoughtfully consider how the courses they choose combine to form this interdisciplinary concentration to ensure that it has a coherent structure with a beginning, middle, and end. Students should also incorporate a range of course levels from introductory to advanced. This will be accomplished in conversation with their academic advisor and they will need to submit their proposed plan of study to the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Programs for approval. The approval process ensures the integrity of the program as well as assists Woods College in the course scheduling process. Additionally, this concentration will provide the flexibility needed for some transfer students to bring together their previous coursework into a meaningful program of study at the Woods College. Concentration Requirements In designing their concentration, students should make sure to select courses from 3 different disciplines, 2 of which must be within the ALA program. Learning Outcomes At the end of the program, students will understand the relationship between different fields of social scientific inquiry and will be able to address research problems using an interdisciplinary approach. At the end of the program, students will be able to communicate effectively, orally and in writing. At the end of the program, students will have the capacity to engage in meaningful, constructive exchanges with others. At the end of the program, students will be able to design research projects that respect the ethical boundaries involved in the study of human beings. Philosophy Concentration Philosophy Concentration Who are we, and why are we here? What is the nature of knowledge, truth, and justice? This concentration explores these and other enduring questions that form the basis of our shared humanity while sharpening your critical thinking and analytical skills in the process. This concentration is ideal for students who seek to understand the world around them at its deepest level. They will learn to address fundamental questions about knowledge, goodness, and the nature of human experience in a clear, systematic fashion. With a curriculum anchored in the great works of antiquity and the Enlightenment, this program introduces students to the major fields of philosophical inquiry, including political philosophy, the philosophy of religion, and the philosophy of science among others. Before beginning this concentration, students are encouraged to take a philosophical ethics course in addition to a second philosophy Core course. To complete the concentration, students need to take four additional philosophy elective courses, one of which must be a non-Western philosophy course. Concentration Requirements Completion of the Philosophy Core requirements. ADPL History of Philosophy Four additional Philosophy electives. One of these courses must be a non-Western philosophy course. Learning Outcomes At the end of the program, students will be able to analyze ethical problems from a variety of philosophical standpoints. At the end of the program, students will be able to evaluate arguments using the tools of practical logic. At the end of the program, students will be able to communicate effectively, orally and in writing. At the end of the program, students will have the capacity to engage in meaningful, constructive exchanges with others. At the end of the program, students will be able to engage critically and analytically with the information that they encounter in different spheres of life. Political Science Concentration Political Science Concentration The Political Science concentration exposes students to the concepts underpinning the U.S. political system before broadening and applying that knowledge to politics as a whole with exposure to other forms of political systems found throughout the world. The classic texts of political theory will form the base of this concentration, and through thoughtful exploration within the elective courses, students will develop their particular focus within the discipline. Concentration Requirements ADPO1041 Fundamental Concepts of Politics (Satisfies a Social Science Core requirement) ADPO3005 Comparative Politics Four additional Political Science electives Learning Outcomes At the end of the program, students will be able to compare and contrast the American system of government with other forms of government. At the end of the program, students will be able to apply the principles of international relation theory to the analysis of current events. At the end of the program, students will be able to apply a sophisticated understanding of race, class, and gender to the analysis of contemporary political phenomena. At the end of the program, students will be able to communicate effectively, orally and in writing. At the end of the program, students will have the capacity to engage in meaningful, constructive exchanges with others. Sociology Concentration Sociology Concentration Develop the skills necessary to apply a sociological lens to everyday life and scholarly research. You'll be able to analyze and critique social, structural, and cultural factors that influence those experiences. You'll also develop the critical thinking skills to discern how different systems of society and people engage with each other. Concentration Requirements ADSO1001 Introductory Sociology (Satisfies a Social Science Core requirement) ADSO2501 Sociological Theories Four additional Sociology electives Students in the Sociology Concentration are strongly encouraged to take a statistics course as their quantitative reasoning Core requirement. Learning Outcomes At the end of the program, students will be able to analyze social phenomena from the perspective of classical and contemporary sociology. At the end of the program, students will be able to apply a sophisticated understanding of race, class, and gender to the analysis of contemporary social phenomena. At the end of the program, students will be able to design research projects that respect the ethical boundaries involved in the study of human beings. At the end of the program, students will be able to communicate effectively, orally and in writing. At the end of the program, students will have the capacity to engage in meaningful, constructive exchanges with others. B.A., Communication Acquire an in-depth understanding of the many ways communication affects—and is affected by—modern societies. Ranging in focus from interpersonal communication to how advertisers, political campaigns, and the media employ mass communication, this major equips you to analyze information across several facets of life. Core Curriculum A distinguishing characteristic of liberal arts education is a required Core curriculum. The Bachelor of Arts programs require the following Core courses: The Examined Life Woods College Formative Seminar 2 English courses: College Writing Literary Works or other Core literature course 2 Philosophy courses (one of which should be an Ethics course) 2 Theology courses 2 Social Science courses 2 History courses (1 must be non-Western) 1 Quantitative Reasoning course 1 Natural Science course 1 Arts course 1 Engaging Diverse Perspectives Course The Purposeful Life Designing Your Career Major Requirements Requirements for Major: ADBM2235 Principles of Advertising ADBM3300 Advanced Advertising ADCO1005 Introduction to Communication ADCO1020 Survey of Mass Communication ADCO5041 Persuasive Communication ADPS1153 Research Methods for the Social Sciences Communication electives: select 2 courses Learning Outcomes At the end of the program, students will be able to bring theories of interpersonal, relationship, group, and organizational communication to bear on the analysis of social phenomena. At the end of the program, students will be able to bring theories of mass communication to bear on the analysis of the media. At the end of the program, students will be able to apply social scientific research methods to particular case studies. At the end of the program, students will be able to communicate effectively, orally and in writing. At the end of the program, students will be able to make informed ethical judgments concerning the role of mass communication in society. B.A., Corporate Systems Obtain both practical and theoretical tools to excel in the ever-evolving world of business. With an emphasis on financial analysis, computing, and other skills, this major equips you to understand how corporations work and economic forces shape the global marketplace. Students graduate from the program ready to step forward as socially responsible, ethically oriented business leaders. Students graduate having learned the foundations of data collection and analysis, industry standard business software, how to communicate effectively in presentations, meetings, and more, and the principles of ethical decision-making in a business context. Core Curriculum A distinguishing characteristic of liberal arts education is a required Core curriculum. The Bachelor of Arts programs require the following Core courses: The Examined Life Woods College Formative Seminar 2 English courses: College Writing Literary Works or other Core literature course 2 Philosophy courses (one of which should be an Ethics course) 2 Theology courses 2 Social Science courses 2 History courses (1 must be non-Western) 1 Quantitative Reasoning course 1 Natural Science course 1 Arts course 1 Engaging Diverse Perspectives Course The Purposeful Life Designing Your Career Major Requirements ADAC5000 Accounting and Financial Analysis I (or Financial Accounting) ADBM1052 Introduction to Organizational Behavior ADBM1430 Corporate Communication ADBM4300 Business Ethics ADEC1101 Principles of Economics ADEC2500/ADMT2530 Elem Econ Statistics (or Math Statistics) ADIT Any IT elective course ADSY1140 Research: Techniques and Processes ADSY5001 Leadership and Innovation 1 Corporate Systems elective Learning Outcomes At the end of the program, students will be able to apply basic principles of data collection and analysis to particular research problems. At the end of the program, students will be able to skillfully use industry standard business software. At the end of the program, students will be able to bring major theories of management to bear on the analysis of organizational structure and dynamics. At the end of the program, students will be able to communicate effectively in letters, memos, email, reports, proposals, resumes, meetings, and presentations. At the end of the program, students will be to apply principles of ethical decision making in a business context. B.A., Criminal and Social Justice This flexible B.A. program explores the intersection of criminal and social justice through the lenses of psychology, sociology, and data analysis. In addition to studying the foundations of the criminal justice system, students analyze systemic issues such as addiction, race, gender, and violence to understand the social and economic roots of crime and identify ethical approaches to addressing them. Taught by experts in the field of criminal justice—including attorneys, police chiefs, academics, and practitioners—the program combines in-depth study of criminal law and criminology with electives on social change, psychology, and sociology. Boston College’s Jesuit tradition of inquiry and service prepares graduates to help build an ethical, rehabilitative criminal justice system. Core Curriculum A distinguishing characteristic of liberal arts education is a required Core curriculum. The Bachelor of Arts programs require the following Core courses: The Examined Life Woods College Formative Seminar 2 English courses: College Writing Literary Works or other Core literature course 2 Philosophy courses (one of which should be an Ethics course) 2 Theology courses 2 Social Science courses 2 History courses (1 must be non-Western) 1 Quantitative Reasoning course 1 Natural Science course 1 Arts course 1 Engaging Diverse Perspectives Course The Purposeful Life Designing Your Career Major Requirements Requirements for Major: ADCJ1100 Introduction to Social Justice ADCJ1101 Principles of Criminal Justice ADPS1100 Introduction to Psychology ADSO1001 Introduction to Sociology ADCJ2000 Criminology ADCJ2101 Corrections: Policies and Practices ADCJ3010 Criminal Law and Procedure ADCJ3051 American Institutions Select 2 courses from Social and Systemic Challenges in Criminal Justice elective courses Select 2 courses from Interdisciplinary elective courses ADPS1100 and ADSO1001 can fulfill the social science Core requirements. Learning Outcomes Students will be able to: Appraise the power dynamics of policy, social norms, and biases in determining how criminal laws are made and enforced. Apply established and emerging psychological and sociological theories to explain criminal behavior. Identify and propose interdisciplinary approaches to resolve critical criminal and social justice issues, recognizing that these issues are both evolving and contested, as demonstrated in real-life case studies. Employ oral and written communication to effectively interact within a variety of audiences and contexts. Articulate the competing ethical issues surrounding criminality and punishment and advocate for a course of action informed by ethical principles that serve the common good. Explain the roles of the key components of the criminal justice system: law enforcement, the courts, and corrections. Integrate historic social, cultural, legal, economic, and political events into a coherent explanation of the current state of American institutions. Distinguish the constitutional protections of people who are suspected to have committed a crime, those who are accused of having committed a crime, and those who are convicted. Explain how legislation and judicial decisions affect criminal justice policies and practices. Apply criminal and constitutional law to specific facts employing legal reasoning skills. B.A., Economics Want to understand how consumers and businesses alike behave? For students aspiring to master the theory and practical skills central to our market-driven world, our program provides a 360-degree understanding of economic dynamics in modern societies. Students aiming to become bankers, business managers, market researchers, budget analysts, or others working in careers where they need to know the intricacies of economies will be well-suited for success with this degree. Students learn to differentiate between market structures and analyze case studies using theories of economic growth, unemployment, and inflation. Core Curriculum A distinguishing characteristic of liberal arts education is a required Core curriculum. The Bachelor of Arts programs require the following Core courses: The Examined Life Woods College Formative Seminar 2 English courses: College Writing Literary Works or other Core literature course 2 Philosophy courses (one of which should be an Ethics course) 2 Theology courses 2 Social Science courses 2 History courses (1 must be non-Western) 1 Quantitative Reasoning course 1 Natural Science course 1 Arts course 1 Engaging Diverse Perspectives Course The Purposeful Life Designing Your Career Major Requirements Requirements for Major: ADEC1101 Principles of Economics ADMT2530 Statistics ADMT1100 Calculus 1 (prereq for ADEC3201/3202) ADEC3202 Macroeconomic Theory ADEC3201 Microeconomic Theory ADEC3515 or ADEC5310 Econometrics or Data Analysis Upper-level Economics electives: Select five courses. ADEC1101 and ADMT1100 will fulfill the Core social science and Core quantitative reasoning requirements respectively. Learning Outcomes Students will be able at the end of the program to: Bring theories of economic growth, unemployment, and inflation to bear on the analysis of particular case studies. Characterize and distinguish between different market structures. Relate models of consumer and firm behavior to particular case studies. Bring different macroeconomic models to bear on the analysis of the national economy. Communicate effectively, orally and in writing. Evaluate economic policies and decision making with an ethical lens. B.A., Information Systems Organizations today need information technology expertise. Students pursuing this degree prepare to fill that role by working their way from simple computer applications toward advanced software and hardware development. Core Curriculum A distinguishing characteristic of liberal arts education is a required Core curriculum. The Bachelor of Arts programs require the following Core courses: The Examined Life Woods College Formative Seminar 2 English courses: College Writing Literary Works or other Core literature course 2 Philosophy courses (one of which should be an Ethics course) 2 Theology courses 2 Social Science courses 2 History courses (1 must be non-Western) 1 Quantitative Reasoning course 1 Natural Science course 1 Arts course 1 Engaging Diverse Perspectives Course The Purposeful Life Designing Your Career Major Requirements Requirements for Major: ADIT1340 Introduction to Web Development ADIT1350 JavaScript ADIT1985 Python (students may substitute this course for another programming language) ADIT2000 Computer Security ADIT3308 Project Management ADIT4058 Systems Architecture 4 Information Systems Electives Learning Outcomes At the end of the program, students will be able to program simple computer applications. At the end of the program, students will be able to employ software and technology related to computer security. At the end of the program, students will be able to communicate effectively, orally and in writing. At the end of the program, students will be able to bring ethical principles to bear on the issue of the role of technology in human life. B.A., Natural Sciences Do you want to understand how the world around you works? Start by acquiring a comprehensive foundation in the three main branches of natural scientific inquiry: biology, chemistry, and physics. This program provides both breadth and depth. You’ll begin by taking introductory courses in all three areas and then pursue more advanced courses within the area that most interests you. Core Curriculum A distinguishing characteristic of liberal arts education is a required Core curriculum. The Bachelor of Arts programs require the following Core courses: The Examined Life Woods College Formative Seminar 2 English courses: College Writing Literary Works or other Core literature course 2 Philosophy courses (one of which should be an Ethics course) 2 Theology courses 2 Social Science courses 2 History courses (1 must be non-Western) 1 Quantitative Reasoning course 1 Natural Science course 1 Arts course 1 Engaging Diverse Perspectives Course The Purposeful Life Designing Your Career Major Requirements Requirements for Major: BIOL2010 Ecology and Evolution BIOL2000 and BIOL2110 Molecules and Cells with Lab CHEM1109 and CHEM1111 General Chem I with Lab CHEM1110 and CHEM1112 General Chem II with Lab PHYS2110 or 2100 and PHYS2050 Intro Physics I and Lab PHYS2101 or 2111 and PHYS2051 Intro Physics II and Lab 3 electives within one field of study Learning Outcomes At the end of the program, students will be able to apply foundational knowledge in biology, chemistry, and physics. At the end of the program, students will be able to communicate effectively, orally and in writing. At the end of the program, students will have the capacity to engage in meaningful, constructive exchanges with others. At the end of the program, students will be able to design scientific research projects that respect the ethical boundaries involved in the study of living organisms. At the end of the program, students will be able to identify the ethical issues surrounding the use of natural resources. B.A., Psychology Do you wonder why we do what we do and what makes us tick? Seek the answers through this flexible program, which covers aspects of many applied areas in psychology. Whether you enroll full- or part-time, you'll study with leading practitioners and industry experts as you learn to apply key theories from the field of psychology to solve real-world issues at work, in your community, and in society. Courses are offered weekends, nights, online, and in a hybrid format. This major is ideal for students who want to analyze human behavior through the lenses of developmental history, social sciences, cognitive psychology, and civil society. You’ll also learn the theory and practice of psychological counseling and apply foundational principles of developmental and cognitive psychology to case studies while considering the field’s ethical dimensions. Core Curriculum A distinguishing characteristic of liberal arts education is a required Core curriculum. The Bachelor of Arts programs require the following Core courses: The Examined Life Woods College Formative Seminar 2 English courses: College Writing Literary Works or other Core literature course 2 Philosophy courses (one of which should be an Ethics course) 2 Theology courses 2 Social Science courses 2 History courses (1 must be non-Western) 1 Quantitative Reasoning course 1 Natural Science course 1 Arts course 1 Engaging Diverse Perspectives Course The Purposeful Life Designing Your Career Major Requirements Requirements for Major: ADMT1805 Applied Statistics ADPS1100 Introduction to Psychology ADPS1153 Research Methods for the Social Sciences ADPS1261 Developmental Psychology ADPS2272 Cognitive Psychology ADPS Psychology in Context 6 Psychology Electives Electives Students are required to complete six elective courses in psychology. To assist students in selecting the best electives for their academic goals, we have developed three areas that reflect possible career paths or areas of interest for which the particular course might be helpful. Some courses will fit into multiple areas. Students do not need to take all of their electives within a single area, and the areas will not be reflected on the student’s transcript or diploma. These are simply to guide students in selecting electives and to provide a better understanding of how the B.A. in Psychology might be put to use. Community Psychology (CP) Courses within Community Psychology (CP) bring together many different lenses through which to understand the human being in context. Courses may explore concepts of social justice, social empowerment, and inequality, encouraging students to understand the roles of power and privilege and their impacts on various populations in an effort to conceptualize effective leadership and active citizenship. Students will apply theories of psychology to societal systems and institutions with an aim of developing effective approaches to fostering collaborative relationships and advocating for more just civil structures. Community Psychology is a broad field with many areas of application including education, public policy, community resources and organizations, and research. CP Career Paths Education Programming Special Education Paraprofessional Policy Planning, Creation, and Implementation Community Resource Creation Community Health Worker Coordinator Conciliation Specialist ABA Therapist Health Data Specialist Health/Human Services Psychology (HP) Courses within Health/Human Services (HP) explore areas of psychology related to physical and mental health. It seeks to give students a deeper understanding of how to apply psychological theories to meet the diverse needs of society and develop trusting relationships with individuals they aim to support. Many of the courses in this area equip students to pursue entry-level positions in the field of healthcare advising, community health promotion and outreach, as well as research and data collection. Health/Human Services is wide-reaching, including the fields of mental health treatment and advisement, data collection, research, and many areas within physical healthcare. HP Career Paths Research Assistant Mental Health Associate Mental Health Technician Health Data Specialist Health and Community Interventionist Health Promotion Specialist Health Educator Outreach Worker ACCS Outreach Worker Industrial-Organizational Psychology (IO) Courses within Industrial and Organizational Psychology (IO) investigates the role of psychology in efficient, effective, and equitable systems and organizations. These courses explore a range of institutions, the psychological processes within each, as well as the individual’s place within these group/organizational dynamics. Students will also discuss the psychology behind individual differences and productive, enriching interpersonal relationships. Industrial and Organizational Psychology involves the application of psychological principles and themes to the field of business, consulting, and human resources. IO Career Paths Product Analyst Employee Experience Specialist Talent Management Consulting Strategic/Brand Planner Learning Outcomes Students will be able to: Interpret and evaluate psychological phenomena by engaging in scientific reasoning and dynamic problem solving in broad, multi-disciplinary contexts Identify and evaluate trustworthy scholarly resources; articulate ways in which context shapes research questions and findings; and interpret basic statistical analyses found within those resources. Evaluate and apply the ethical standards of the psychology field in their professional and personal lives. Propose solutions to civic, social, and global problems through the creative application of psychological theories and constructs while recognizing society’s inherent diversity and the ways in which that diversity impacts those psychological theories and constructs. Create effective communication materials in written, oral, and digital formats, including the correct implementation of the APA style. Fifth Year and Advanced Standing Programs for Boston College Students Accelerated Program for Boston College Undergraduate Economics Students (Enrolled at the Woods College, Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, or Carroll School of Management) Woods College of Advancing Studies is proud to offer Boston College students an option for accelerated completion of the Master of Science in Applied Economics program. This option is available to students with significant previous economics course work, including Economics majors and minors in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences as well as to students with Economics concentration in the Carroll School of Management. Students enrolled in the accelerated program will have to complete eight courses in WCAS, which is possible to achieve within one calendar year of entry into the program. Benefits Waiver of application fee Waiver of Graduate Record Exam (GRE) Preferred admission without the competition of the rest of the applicant pool Credit for Microeconomic Theory (ECON2201 or ECON2203) and Macroeconomic Theory (ECON2202 or ECON2204) courses if the courses are completed with a grade of B or better. These credits will count as fulfilling the requirement of taking Applied Microeconomic Theory (ADEC7201) and Applied Macroeconomic Theory (ADEC7200). Option to complete the eight remaining course requirements in one additional calendar year Qualifications Anticipated successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in May of senior year Overall GPA of 3.30 or above Grade of B or better in prerequisite courses: Principles of Economics, Statistics, Calculus I, and Calculus II* Submission of all Applied Economics application materials by the end of the semester in which the student will graduate. In order to receive priority consideration for WCAS financial aid, students should apply in the fall semester of their senior year. *Calculus II course can be taken after the admission into the program. Accelerated Program for Boston College Undergraduate Students (enrolled at the Woods College, Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, or Carroll School of Management) Woods College of Advancing Studies is proud to offer Boston College students an option for accelerated completion of the Master of Science in Leadership and Administration program. Students enrolled in the accelerated program will have to complete eight courses in WCAS, which is possible to achieve within one calendar year of entry into the program. Under the terms of this agreement, qualified students are eligible for: Waiver of the application fee; Waiver of the Graduate Record Exam (GRE); Preferred admission without the competition of the rest of the applicant pool; Advanced standing for up to two upper-level courses that student has completed at BC; Graduate Program Director to approve. Option to complete the eight remaining course requirements in one additional calendar year. Qualifications Anticipated successful completion of a bachelor's degree from BC in May of senior year Overall GPA of 3.30 or above Submission of all the application materials by the published Boston College deadline. Interested students should contact the Program Director of the Masters in Leadership and Administration at Woods College with any further questions. Academic Honors Degree with Honors For information regarding academic honors printed in the Commencement program, visit the Policies and Procedures: Undergraduate Academic Regulations, Degree with Honors section of the catalog. Undergraduate Graduation Awards Awards at commencement recognize a distinguished scholastic record, special accomplishments in various academic fields, and qualities of outstanding character, leadership, and demonstrated loyalty to the college. Dean's List The Woods College Dean's List recognizes the achievement of undergraduate students semester by semester. Students with a GPA of 3.700 or above in the B.A. programs will be placed on the Dean's List. In order to be eligible for the Dean's List, students must earn at least 8 or more credits in courses evaluated with a letter grade. Students must not have withdrawals, pass/fail grades, or incompletes in the semester in question. Professional Studies Certificate The Professional Studies Certificate is an end in itself for some students. For others, it may be applied toward completion of a bachelor’s degree. Whatever one’s ultimate goal, whether to qualify for promotion, initiate a career change, or earn an undergraduate degree, a Professional Studies Certificate can help to achieve that objective. A Professional Studies Certificate may be obtained in Sustainability. Certificate requirements include the following: Students must receive at least a grade of C for each course credited toward the certificate. Certificate requirements should be completed within two years of initial enrollment for non-degree students, and prior to degree completion for students already enrolled in a degree program; courses are permanently retained on the student record. A request to apply to a certificate program must be made to the James A. Woods, S.J. College of Advancing Studies. A request must also be made to receive a formal certificate upon completion. Sustainability Certificate With a six-course curriculum offered entirely online, this program comprises courses such as Sustainability Science, Planetary Health, Wetlands Science and Policy, Sustainable Design as a Way of Thinking, and Food and Sustainability. Students are exposed to both science and policy as they explore such pressing concerns as climate change, population growth, and the limits of natural resources. Curriculum Core Courses Complete the following course: ADBI1128 Sustainability Science Electives Complete 5 of the following courses: ADBI1140 Citizen Science ADBI2010 Eating and the Environment ADBI3010 Energy in the Twenty-First Century ADGE2500 Natural Disasters ADGE2505 Wetlands Science and Policy ADSB1904 Planetary Health ADSB2026 Sustainable Design as a Way of Thinking ADSB2105 Food and Sustainability Non-Degree and Visiting Students Non-Degree Students Non-degree students are individuals interested in taking undergraduate courses for academic credit but not in applying for a degree. Non-degree students may enroll in fall, spring, or summer semesters. A brief non-degree application form must be completed and submitted online. Most Woods undergraduate courses are open to non-degree students (with certain exceptions for courses in specific degree or certificate programs). Non-degree students are limited to two courses per semester. If you would like to take more courses in a semester, you will be required to apply to a degree or certificate program or submit a petition to the academic and advising team to waive this policy. There are many different reasons students pursue non-degree coursework, and we recommend that you consult with our non-degree academic advisor before registering for courses. As a non-degree student, you are not eligible for need-based or merit-based financial aid from Boston College or for most federally and state-funded assistance plans. (See specific assistance programs for exceptions.) However, your non-degree work may qualify for reimbursement under employer-sponsored tuition remission development programs. We’re happy to work with you and your employer to see if our non-degree offerings qualify for assistance. Contact a member of our academic advising team for more information. Visiting Students Individuals wishing to attend during the day as special undergraduate students are required to apply for non-degree status at the James A. Woods, S.J., College of Advancing Studies. Qualified applicants are admitted to specific courses on an individual basis. More specific application instructions for those interested in applying for Visiting Student status can be found at the Visiting Students web page. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College