Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Office of the Registrar Contact Us Office of the Registrar Important Graduation Related Deadlines ****ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS**** Important Spring 2022 Graduation Related Deadlines Read more. Contact Us History The Brown University Office of the Registrar dates back to 1828 when the office of the "Register" was created and assumed by Lemuel H. Elliot, who had previously held the title of "Steward." The current University Registrar is Robert F. Fitzgerald, who was appointed to the position in 2010. The management staff of the Office of the Registrar is highly involved with regional and national professional organizations such as AACRAO (American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admission Officers) and accordingly follows many standard guidelines and best practices established by such organizations. Academic Calendar Academic Records University Bulletin Course Enrollment Degree Guidelines Final Exams Faculty/Staff Resources University Scheduling Office Classroom Assignments & Locations Contact Us Office Hours Office Directory Gateways For Students For Faculty For Staff Print this Page Share this Page Office of the Registrar Brown University Box K 69 Brown Street Page-Robinson Hall, 3rd floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2500 Fax 401-863-7542 [email protected] Academic Calendar Jun 2 All Day Registration period for Summer courses for Brown undergraduates re-opens at 9:00 a.m.EDT and remains open until Wednesday June 22 at 5:00 p.m. EDT Jun 19 All Day Residence halls open. Jun 20 All Day Juneteenth Holiday observed. No University exercises. Jun 20 All Day Summer Session opens. Jun 21 All Day Summer Session classes begin. Jun 22 All Day Last day to change courses (5:00 p.m. EDT deadline). (All students MUST be in their registered courses by Thursday, June 23.) Jul 4 All Day Independence Day holiday. No University exercises. Jul 6 All Day Last day to change grade options (5:00 p.m. EDT deadline) Jul 29 All Day Classes end. Jul 30 All Day Reading Period View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Student Links [email protected] Banner Video Tutorials Banner Web Student Information Rights - FERPA Voter Registration ASK - Advising Sidekick Related Offices Admission Dean of the College Alpert Medical School Bulletin of the University Bursar Financial Aid Graduate School School of Professional Studies