Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Mathematics and Physics Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Mathematics and Physics Major Apply Visit Request More Info Mathematics and Physics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarship & Financial Aid Mathematics and Physics Major Examine how mathematical principles are used to identify and solve problems in the physical sciences with the Bachelor of Science in Mathematics and Physics in the College of Science and Technology at Temple University. As a Mathematics and Physics Major, you’ll explore mathematical tools and methods as they relate to analysis and modeling in physics. Career opportunities include aerospace engineer, lab technician, mathematician, mechanical engineer, secondary school teacher and statistician. This 123-credit-hour, undergraduate degree is tailored to develop expertise in the relationship between mathematics and physics. You’ll investigate how mathematical concepts, such as curvilinear coordinate systems, differential equations and vector analysis are used to study complex branches of physics. Physics coursework delves into fields such as electromagnetism, quantum mechanics and thermodynamics. Physics classes take place in Temple’s state-of-the-art Science Education and Research Center, where small class sizes and new Physics labs foster an innovative learning environment. Graduates with a Mathematics and Physics degree are in high demand. Not only will you develop a strong background in both disciplines, but you’ll also hone your analytical and critical thinking skills. Classes & Curriculum As a Mathematics and Physics Major, you will broaden your knowledge with a combination of required and elective courses. These include 11 required mathematics courses, 10 required physics courses and 2 writing-intensive courses, including the capstone course. See a full list of requirements for the Mathematics and Physics Major. Related Graduate Degrees Economics MA * Economics PhD * Mathematics MS Mathematics PhD Physics MS Physics PhD Scientific Writing PSM Related Graduate Certificates Scientific Writing *College of Liberal Arts Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,568.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,792.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate New Student Orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides post-graduation guidance, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development's academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. Program Contact Contact the following faculty for more information about the Mathematics and Physics BS degree. Boris A. Datskovsky is a professor and director of advising in the Department of Mathematics. Phone: 215-204-7847 Email: boris.datskovsky@temple.edu Zbigniew Dziembowski is an associate professor in the Department of Physics. Phone: 215-204-7639 Email: zbig.dziembowski@temple.edu Maria E. Lorenz is the director of undergraduate studies and professor in the Department of Mathematics. Phone: 215-204-7852 Email: mathadvising@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations in the College of Science and Technology provide opportunities to meet with peers, network with professionals or scientists in your field of study and learn about internship opportunities. The College of Science and Technology offers 15 major clubs and 12 prehealth clubs for undergraduate students. Enhance your academic study and social life by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Students pursuing the Mathematics and Physics Major may be interested in the following clubs and organizations. The Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM fields. The Association for Women in Mathematics - Temple University Chapter promotes equal opportunities for women in the field and encourages them to seek careers in mathematics. Leadership, Education and Development in Science empowers Philadelphia middle school students to take an interest in STEM through mentor-led science experiments. The Math Club is a community of students and College of Science and Technology faculty that promotes mathematics through social activities and discussions. The Physics Club builds a community of students interested in physics through conversations with faculty and volunteer opportunities. The Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics is a professional society for students interested in applied, computational or industrial mathematics. Members attend seminars, explore career opportunities and meet with scientists in the field. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away Opportunities Deepen your understanding of your math, natural science or computer science coursework by experiencing firsthand how such disciplines are studied overseas. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Learn more about your options for studying away. College of Science and Technology undergraduate students can also take part in international research. These opportunities include the following external scholarship programs. The Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship provides funding for underrepresented students to study in nontraditional destinations such as Australia and Eastern Europe. The Boren Scholarship Summer STEM Initiative offers undergraduate STEM majors opportunities to participate in a language-intensive program. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research and Temple offer opportunities for students in biology, chemistry and physics programs to work in research groups in Pune, India, over the summer. The Siena Biomedical Research Program provides the opportunity for students to spend their summer working full time in a biotechnology and pathology lab based in Tuscany, Italy. The Sicily Applied Biotechnology Program allows students to learn the biological basis behind the technology used for art conservation and then apply that knowledge in the laboratory and in the field. Learn more about study abroad programs for College of Science and Technology students. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-MAPH-BS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Mathematics and Physics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarship & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info