Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Study Abroad right arrow down arrow Explore Programs right arrow down arrow Steps to Study Abroad Program Types Student Experiences Understand Funding right arrow down arrow Financial Aid UC International Scholarship Other Scholarships Budgeting for Study Abroad Social Media Ambassadors Apply to Study Abroad right arrow down arrow Faculty-Led Programs Long-Term Programs (Exchange / External) right arrow down arrow Credit Approval Co-op & Internships Minors Non-Academic Travel COVID-19 Travel Restrictions Prepare for Travel right arrow down arrow Passports & Visas Pre-Departure Orientation Health & Insurance Abroad right arrow down arrow Insurance Safety Emergencies Return to Campus right arrow down arrow Outreach Project Faculty Leaders right arrow down arrow Faculty-Led Toolkit right arrow down arrow Propose a Program Design Guide Before you go While Abroad After Travel Grants and Opportunities right arrow down arrow Program Development Grant Mentoring Grant Teach Abroad With USAC Health and Safety Emergencies and Incidents Contact Us Home » Campus Life » Study Abroad » Apply to Study Abroad » COVID-19 Travel Restrictions Set Navigation title in component Faculty-Led Programs Long-Term Programs (Exchange / External) Credit Approval Co-op & Internships Minors Non-Academic Travel COVID-19 Travel Restrictions COVID-19 Travel Restrictions Study and co-op abroad has re-opened for select locations and programs determined via a petition process. The university’s prohibition on international travel for official university business was lifted as of August 10, 2021. UC’s International Travel Oversight Committee (ITOC) will manage a petition process to support the travel of students intending to study or co-op abroad. UC’s approval to travel is contingent upon student’s meeting host country and program entry requirements – which are subject to change. If students travel abroad without an approved petition, it will be considered personal travel and unaffiliated to the University of Cincinnati. Therefore, UC would be unable to provide students with credit transfer, support for emergencies, financial assistance (including scholarships or financial aid), insurance, or visa letters. Steps to Complete Petition Process Each of the steps below should be reviewed and completed by the student who will be traveling as it is important that they are aware and informed of the risks and expectations associated with their travel. The petition is a part of the student's overall application to study abroad. Begin Petition for International Travel Find Department of State Travel Advisories Step 1: Complete petition questionnaire. This can be found in your study application titled COVID-19 Considerations and Petition for International Travel. Students will first be asked to determine the U.S. Department of State Travel Advisory level for the country they intend to travel to. Students traveling to countries with a level 1 or 2 Travel Advisory should submit their petition after this question. Students traveling to countries with a level 3 or 4 Travel Advisory will be prompted to complete additional questions relating to their travel and COVID-19. Please be sure to answer all questions to the best of your ability using the resources listed below. Step 2: Review Petition Approval Considerations. After submitting your petition, review the requirement titled COVID-19 Petition Approval. This requirement will be marked complete upon review of your petition by ITOC. You will be notified by email when this requirement is complete. Step 3: Notification. Within 7 - 10 days, you will recive a response to your petition from ITOC. Petition Resources right arrow down arrow The following resources may be helpful in completing the petition for international travel. U.S. Department of State Travel Advisories U.S. Embassies CDC COVID-19 Travel Recommendations ISOS COVID-19 Data and Resources - Use membership no: 11BCAS000010 Sample Petition right arrow down arrow Please customize your responses to be specific to your program. Question Resource Sample Response Does your primary destination have a US Department of State Level 3 or Level 4 warning? U.S. Department of State Yes If the answer to the question above is 'No' meaning you are traveling to a country with a Level 1 or 2 Advisory, your petition will be complete and ready for submission. If the answer is 'Yes', meaning you are traveling to a country with a Level 3 or 4 Advisory, you will be prompted to answer the questions below. What are the COVID-19 entry requirements for your travel destination(s)? Host country government website (often linked through embassy website) Proof of vaccination and proof of negative COVID-19 test no more than 72 priors to travel. What are the COVID-19 expectations of you in country regarding COVID-19 transmission? US embassy website for the host country; program provider or host university Masks must be worn in public places, both indoors and outdoors, and social distancing must be observed. Currently all spaces (stores, restaurants, museums, cinemas, etc) are open, some with reduced capacity. What are the COVID-19 entry requirements to return to the US? Centers for Disease Control I will need to test negative for COVID-19 within 24 hours of boarding my flight to the U.S. Important Considerations right arrow down arrow Full vaccination is strongly encouraged. ITOC approvals are usually months before travel. Therefore, it is very likely that the situation abroad may change between approval and travel. Based on any changes, the travel or program may be cancelled or adjusted by ITOC. Any ITOC program determination made prior to departure may need adjustment (including cancellation) based on global or country-specific context or changes abroad. Individual countries and programs abroad may have their own entry or quarantine requirements that UC cannot override. Do not purchase airfare, make travel arrangements, or pay non-refundable deposits until you have received ITOC approval for your petition. Students are assuming full financial responsibilities for all costs and expenses incurred for travel. Many travelers are exploring trip cancellation insurance (e.g. Cancel For Any Reason coverage). Policy coverage and costs eligibility vary greatly. Students are encouraged to be informed consumers when assessing policies and applicability to their travel situation. Trip cancellation insurance is supplemental to medical and evacuation insurance that UC International requires for all travels through CISI. Travel departure may ultimately change since the global context is subject to rapid shifts. Faculty-Led Study Abroad right arrow down arrow UC's International Travel Oversight Committee (ITOC) will review faculty-led study abroad programs on a rolling basis by term. Please contact UC International at global@uc.edu to discuss your program proposal and the current approval process. Petition to Offer a Faculty-Led Program An Evolving Situation The global context may change suddenly and unexpectedly at any time. ITOC, in partnership with UC’s COVID Response Team, will continue to actively monitor the global health and travel environment to help safeguard our students and community. The University may issue further rules or requirements, or be subject to a directive from a governmental authority that requires the University to change, modify or alter its response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including but not limited to, discontinuing or modifying student travel. In participating in the petition process, students understand that the University, in its sole discretion, may permit or disallow travel as it deems necessary. Questions? Contact your study abroad advisor or Global@UC.edu with any questions or concerns. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 global@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top