Skip to main content Toggle navigation College of Forestry Apply Visit Give Directory Search About Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Research Outreach International Diversity, Equity + Inclusion Alumni + Friends MyCoF About Vision Mission Academic Departments Research Forests Elliott State Forest HJ Andrews Forest Meet the College Our Blog Undergraduate Programs Forestry Forest Engineering Natural Resources Renewable Materials Tourism, Recreation + Adventure Leadership Request More Information Graduate Programs Forest Ecosystems and Society Sustainable Forest Management Wood Science Master of Natural Resources Graduate Certificates Major Professors + Advisors Research Our Research Centers, Institutes and Programs Our Facilities Our Forests Outreach Forestry + Natural Resources Extension Ask An Expert Continuing and Professional Education Fire Program Master Woodland Manager Northwest Fire Science Consortium Oregon Master Naturalist Oregon Natural Resources Education Program Oregon Environmental Literacy Program Oregon Wood Innovation Center PNW Agroforestry Working Group Starker Lectures Women Owning Woodlands Wood Magic Our Impact International Opportunities Abroad Visiting Students and Scholars International Partnerships Funding Opportunities Diversity, Equity + Inclusion Alumni + Friends Donate Get Involved Career Support Connect Events OSU Alumni Association OSU Foundation MyCoF Faculty/Staff Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Student Services Forest Engineering Degree Forest Engineering, Civil Engineering Dual Degree gives students a leg up in the job market. Apply Now Learn more Forest Engineering Degree When you study forest engineering, you have an advantage in the job market. Once you graduate, you can work in rural or urban settings; outside or inside; on forests, roads, bridges or transportation systems. We believe that every problem is a challenge and every challenge is an opportunity. These programs offer a fantastic opportunity for students who want to solve some of our most complicated problems to benefit forests and communities. Our degree programs in forest engineering are accredited by the Society of American Foresters (SAF). BEYOND THE CLASSROOM You won't just learn in the classroom. Many labs take place minutes away in OSU's Research Forests, where you can participate in research from the moment you step on campus. The college's research impacts every single person in the state of Oregon, and is important to the environmental, economic and social needs of the rest of the nation and the world. You can also study abroad during your Oregon State career. Programs range from a few weeks to a year in destinations across six continents, with scholarships available to help offset costs. Finally, required work experience will allow you to apply your knowledge and make connections throughout the industry. Thanks to a comprehensive approach, you will leave Oregon State ready to make a difference and become a leader in your career of choice. FOREST ENGINEERING DEGREE OPTIONS: Forest Engineering prepares you with the skills and knowledge required to implement complex forest and natural resource operations. Forest Engineering/Civil Engineering expands your career opportunities by allowing you to work in both rural and urban areas, and for a wide variety of employers. It is designed to be completed within five years and offered in cooperation with the OSU School of Civil and Construction Engineering. Forest Engineering Forest Engineering/Civil Engineering “I found forest engineering and it was the perfect major for me.” - Josh Fix, Class of 2021 "The forestry community is close-knit and brings people together all over the world." - Corinne Walters, BS, 2019 "In the forest engineering program, labs are something I look forward to. Being outside makes me excited to learn." - Danica Ruud, BS, 2019 Previous Next Paying For College There are a variety of options for you to fund your education. Over $550,000 in scholarships are available - and that's just from the College of Forestry. The College of Forestry is dedicated to making sure our degrees are affordable. General Information CoF Scholarships OSU Scholarships Scholarships for Incoming Students Community Scholarships OSU Financial Aid Possible Careers: Forest Engineer Apply engineering principles to forest lands A forest engineer connects the dots in a working forest, making sure things get from point a to point b. If a road needs to be built or a bridge needs to be installed, a forest engineer is the one who manages the whole project. Design, negotiate and oversee projects. Salary range: $56,000-$75,000 Possible Careers: Civil Engineer Maintain roads, bridges, dams and more Civil engineers design, construct and manage public works including roads, bridges and harbors. They can work in forested or urban areas. Salary range: $50,560-$119,320 Possible Careers: Land Surveyor Measure and map our land Surveyors measure and update boundary lies and prepare sites for construction. Surveyors make precise measurements with advanced instruments. They provide data relevant to the shape and contour of the Earth's surface for engineering, mapmaking and construction projects. Salary range: $56,000-$81,410 Oregon Forest Science Complex The OFSC features 20 classrooms, computer rooms and laboratories, including the FERN Student Center and the Peavy Arboretum, where faculty, students, and researchers can participate in active learning and discovery while utilizing state-of-the-art equipment. Visit Full OFSC Site > Experiential Learning Forest Engineering students love to get out there and get their hands dirty. Pretty much every student takes part in some form of learning outside the classroom. There are many opportunities to get involved and gain experience. Opportunities Abroad Research Internships Student Logging Training Program College Research Forests Mentored Employment Job Shadow Experiences Additional Opportunities See Yourself Here Oregon State University is located in Corvallis, one of the top-ranked college towns in the country. A one-hour drive from the Pacific Ocean, and a two-hour drive from the Cascades and high desert, it is an ideal place to live and work. Visit Us > College of Forestry Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331-5704 Tel: 541-737-2004 Contact us Copyright © 2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Forest Ecosystems and Society Forest Engineering, Resources and Management Wood Science and Engineering College Research Forests Forestry and Natural Resources Extension