Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Engineering and Computer Science Menu Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships List of ECS Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Summer Accelerate Program Summer of Discovery Freshmen Fall Incoming Freshmen Equipment Requirements and Computer Recommendations Transfer Course Recommendations Entrance and Progression Standards ECS Scholars Program Academic Advising Meet with an ECS Advisor Advising Walk-in Hours Course Drops Academic Actions Certification for Graduation ECS Summer Courses Advising Resources Pre-Engineering Requirements ECS Course Repeat Policy Final Exam Policy Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science About Education Materials Science Faculty Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Bioinformatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Data Science major Research Computer Science About Us ABET Chair's Welcome Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Software Engineering Concentration Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Cybersecurity Concentration Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Science with Computer Science Fellows Major Online Master of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Bioinformatics Competitive Learning Cybersecurity & Networking Data Science Human-Computer Interaction Machine Learning Software Engineering VLSI Design Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair eBears Seminars Cadence University Program Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & Master of Engineering Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Biomedical Computing Engineering and Cyber-Physical Systems Material and Devices Sustainable Energy and Power Systems Wireless & Microwave Circuits & Systems Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.S. Ph.D. Research Advance Materials and Additive Manufacturing Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering Energy Systems Engineering Geriatric Engineering Humanitarian Engineering and Engineering Ethics Sustainable Engineering Thermo-Fluids Engineering Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us ABET Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.B.A. & M.E. Joint Program Master of Science Master of Engineering Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise Baylor>Engineering & Computer Science>Departments>Electrical & Computer Engineering>Programs>Bachelor of Science Bachelor of Science Our ABET-accredited Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering (B.S. in E.C.E.) program provides a strong technical foundation within a caring Christian environment with an emphasis on professional, ethical and leadership development. ECE students analyze, design, and build a variety of devices enabling an understanding of the principles behind modern technologies to prepare them to play a role in shaping the future. Learn more about the ECE program through the links below. View or download the flowchart for ECE. What is Electrical and Computer Engineering? What do Electrical and Computer Enginering students study? What are job prospects for ECE graduates? Are there ECE student organizations? What is ABET? What is the Bachelor of Science in ECE Curriculum? What is Electrical and Computer Engineering? Engineers use science, math, and fundamental principles to solve problems. This may include designing new devices and systems, testing those systems, investigating failures, overseeing manufacturing or construction, research leading to new technologies, and many other activities. Examples of work done by electrical or computer engineers include: electrical/electronic systems for aircraft and spacecraft, including RADAR, voice and data communications, and electrical power for these systems, as well as flight controls and instrumentation (altitude, air speed, etc.); mobile devices and the wireless networks that connect them; computer hardware and software, from simple microcontrollers to complex, high-performance computing clusters; materials used in the manufacturing of electrical devices and components, such as silicon for integrated circuits and photovoltaic cells or various metals used in batteries; lasers, optics, and optical fibers for data communication; electrical energy storage and generation, including conventional, solar, wind, and wave; industrial, commercial, and consumer robots, such as quadcopter “drones”; and embedded systems, or systems-within-systems, such as the engine computer and the entertainment center in a vehicle. Many of these areas are reflected in the BSECE curriculum through required and elective courses, in addition to extra-curricular activities, student projects, and undergraduate research opportunities. Learn more about electrical and computer engineering at tryengineering.com or this IEEE brochure. What do Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) students study? The ECE curriculum consists of two main course stems. In the electrical stem, students study signals and systems, electromagnetics, electronic circuit design and control systems design. In the computer stem, students study digital logic design, computer organization, embedded computer systems, hardware/software design and digital signal processing. With these two required stems, students gain a foundation in the major areas of electrical and computer engineering and are prepared for careers in a broad spectrum of industries. Elective courses allow a student to study a specialized field of interest, including areas like communication and networking, signal and image processing, optics and photonics, control and robotics, digital and embedded systems, wireless and microwave systems, and power and energy systems. Learn more about our curriculum here. What are the job prospects for ECE graduates? Students that receive an ECE degree have a wide range of exciting career and graduate degree options. Of the ECE students graduating in May of 2019, 83 percent had a full-time position or acceptance to graduate school before they graduated. Find out more about our alumni and where they work here. Are there ECE student organizations? While ECE students participate in many organizations across the campus, there are organizations dedicated specifically to students in the major. From the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) to the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) to the Society of Women Engineers (SWE) to Engineers with a Mission, students have opportunities to engage in leadership, professional development, student projects, and service. Learn more about our student organizations. All students in the school of Engineering and Computer Science can apply to live in the Teal Residential College. What is ABET? The BSECE degree is accredited by ABET, the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology. ABET accreditation in engineering provides assurance that a university program meets the quality standards of the profession. Students seeking to become a licensed Professional Engineer (PE) post-graduation must graduate from an ABET-accredited program. Learn more about our ABET accreditation. Curriculum for the Bachelor of Science in ECE View or download the Flow Chart for the Bachelor of Science in ECE. Students pursuing the Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering complete a rigorous course of study that includes courses from the Humanities and Social Sciences, Mathematics and Basic Sciences, and Engineering. Electrical and Computer Engineering professionals are required to demonstrate strong written and spoken communication skills, an understanding of engineering economics, and familiarity with engineering ethics. This course of study prepares students well for careers in industry, government, education, and non-profits. B.S. Degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering ECE Major Requirements – 62 semester hours Introduction to Engineering – 6 hours o EGR 1301 and 1302 Computer Science – 4 hours o CSI 1430 Electrical Foundation – 17 hours o ELC 2130, 2330, 3114, 3314, 3335, 3337, 4332 Computer Foundation – 17 hours o ELC 2137, 2337, 3336, 3338, 4351, 4438 Engineering Design – 6 hours o EGR 3380 and 4390 Engineering Electives – 12 hours, examples include: Introduction to Robotics Power Systems Electric and Hybrid Vehicles Advanced Digital Logic RF Electronics Optics Bioinstrumentation Math and Science - 32 semester hours Calculus, Linear Algebra, Differential Equations, Statistics, Physics and Chemistry General Requirements - 23 to 28 semester hours Chapel, English, Religion, Literature, Political Science, Economics and Ethics Additional Information The requirements for the degree as well as course descriptions can be found in the Undergraduate Catalog. View the four-year degree plan flow chart. Contact ECS Advising for more information. Have more questions? For more information about our undergraduate program, contact ECS Student Services. Schedule a campus visit here. Find out more information about our graduate programs here. Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Bioinformatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Data Science major Research Computer Science About Us ABET Chair's Welcome Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Software Engineering Concentration Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Cybersecurity Concentration Cyber FAQ Cyber Brochure Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Science with Computer Science Fellows Major Online Master of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Bioinformatics Competitive Learning Cybersecurity & Networking Data Science Human-Computer Interaction Machine Learning Software Engineering VLSI Design Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair eBears Seminars Cadence University Program Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & Master of Engineering Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Biomedical Computing Engineering and Cyber-Physical Systems Material and Devices Sustainable Energy and Power Systems Wireless & Microwave Circuits & Systems Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.S. Ph.D. Research Advance Materials and Additive Manufacturing Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering Energy Systems Engineering Geriatric Engineering Humanitarian Engineering and Engineering Ethics Sustainable Engineering Thermo-Fluids Engineering Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us ABET Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.B.A. & M.E. Joint Program Master of Science Master of Engineering Research School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Engineering & Computer Science One Bear Place #97356 Waco, TX 76798-7356 Computer Science One Bear Place #97141 Waco, TX 76798-7141 (254) 710-3890 ECS_Student_Services@baylor.edu Apply Give Questions for Undergraduate Programs Questions for Graduate Programs General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Academic Advising Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Research Computer Science About Us Degree Programs Research Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us Programs Research Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us Programs Research Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us Programs Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise