Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Modern Languages & Cultures Menu Modern Languages & Cultures Asian & African Arabic Course Listings Major/Minor Requirements Study Abroad Outside the Classroom Arabic Faculty Chinese Course Listings Minor Requirements Study Abroad Outside the Classroom Chinese Faculty Japanese Course Listings Minor Requirements Study Abroad Outside the Classroom Japanese Faculty Korean Course Listings Study Abroad Outside the Classroom Korean Faculty Swahili Course Listings Swahili Faculty French & Italian French Course Listings Major/Minor Requirements Study Abroad Opportunities Outside the Classroom French Faculty Student Spotlights Italian Course Listings Secondary Major/Minor Requirements Baylor in Tuscany Other Study Abroad Opportunities Outside the Classroom Italian Faculty German & Russian German Course Listings Major/Minor Requirements Study Abroad Outside the Classroom German Faculty Scholarships Russian Course Listings Major/Minor Requirements Study Abroad Outside the Classroom Russian Faculty Scholarships Spanish & Portuguese Spanish Course Listings Major/Minor Requirements Certificate in Spanish for Health Professions Graduate Program Spanish for Heritage Speakers Scholarships Spanish Faculty Outside the Classroom Study Abroad Portuguese Course Listings Study Abroad Outside the Classroom Portuguese Faculty Area Studies Asian Studies Course Listings Curricula Study Abroad Contact Us Latin American Studies Course Listings Curricula Study Abroad Contact Us Middle East Studies Course Listings Curricula Study Abroad Contact Us Slavic & East European Studies Course Listings Curricula Study Abroad Contact Us Modern Languages & Cultures The Department of Modern Languages and Cultures prepares students for the challenges and opportunities of global citizenship by fostering both linguistic proficiency and intercultural awareness within a nurturing community of scholars. We honor diversity in all we do. Explore Asian & African More About Asian & African French & Italian More About French & Italian German & Russian More About German & Russian Spanish & Portuguese More About Spanish & Portuguese Area Studies More About Area Studies Earn a Master's in Spanish The Master of Arts program in Spanish prepares students to pursue the Ph.D. in Spanish and related fields, to become effective teachers and to work in business and professional activities that require Spanish in this country and abroad. Learn More About Our MA in Spanish Study Abroad Programs The Modern Languages and Cultures department at Baylor offers both summer and semester-long study-abroad opportunities in more than a dozen countries such as... Argentina, Brazil, China, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Morocco, Peru, Russia, and Spain. Learn More About Study Abroad Interactive Media & Language Center The interactive Media and Language Center serves the students and faculty of the Department of Modern Languages and Cultures. The facility is located on the third floor of the Draper Academic Building, suite 356 and room 355. The Center strives to be a model for technology-assisted language teaching and learning. MLC students are encouraged and supported in their language-learning journey while faculty members are encouraged and supported in their language acquisition pedagogy and associated technology. About The iMLC Student Resources Upcoming Events Jun 1 2022 Apply for alternative loans by this date for upcoming fall/spring semesters. Most alternative loans require 4-6 weeks of processing time. You should determine your eligibility and apply prior to bills being sent to allow adequate processing time. Jun 2 2022 Summer 2022 Minimester term ends/exams Jun 7 2022 Last day to register or add classes for Summer 2022 Session 1 Jun 8 2022 Last day to drop a Summer 2022 Session 1 class without a "W" More Events Bilingualism could change your life Baylor student and first semester Spanish learner, Elise Crosley, reflects on the advantages of being bilingual. Crosley is a journalism major with a news editorial concentration and poverty studies and social justice minors. Perhaps soon she will also be a language minor! The Baylor & Beyond Living-Learning Center! Want to learn languages where you live? Are you passionate about cultures? Do you want to be a part of a group that is invested in the Waco and global communities? If you answered 'yes' to any of these questions, then the Baylor & Beyond LLC is the residence hall for you! Click here for more information: Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Modern Languages & Cultures Department of Modern Languages and Cultures Old Main, Room 275 One Bear Place #97391 Waco, TX 76798-7391 mlc@baylor.edu (254) 710-3711 Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Asian & African Arabic Course Listings Major/Minor Requirements Study Abroad Outside the Classroom Arabic Faculty Chinese Course Listings Minor Requirements Study Abroad Outside the Classroom Chinese Faculty Japanese Course Listings Minor Requirements Study Abroad Outside the Classroom Japanese Faculty Korean Course Listings Study Abroad Outside the Classroom Korean Faculty Swahili Course Listings Swahili Faculty French & Italian French Course Listings Major/Minor Requirements Study Abroad Opportunities Baylor In Paris Accommodations Courses Eligibility Trips an Excursions Responsibilities Travel To and From France Cost and Application Process Faculty Outside the Classroom French Faculty Student Spotlights Italian Course Listings Secondary Major/Minor Requirements Baylor in Tuscany Other Study Abroad Opportunities Outside the Classroom Italian Faculty German & Russian German Course Listings Major/Minor Requirements Study Abroad Outside the Classroom German Faculty Scholarships Russian Course Listings Major/Minor Requirements Study Abroad Outside the Classroom Russian Faculty Scholarships Spanish & Portuguese Spanish Course Listings Major/Minor Requirements Certificate in Spanish for Health Professions Graduate Program Spanish for Heritage Speakers Scholarships Spanish Faculty Outside the Classroom Study Abroad Portuguese Course Listings Study Abroad Outside the Classroom Portuguese Faculty Area Studies Asian Studies Course Listings Curricula Study Abroad Contact Us Latin American Studies Course Listings Curricula Study Abroad Contact Us Middle East Studies Course Listings Curricula Study Abroad Contact Us Slavic & East European Studies Course Listings Curricula Study Abroad Contact Us