Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Faculty/Staff Contact Us Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Web Cams Apply Now Make a Gift Explore Admissions Academics Students Financial/Tuition Loans The Office of Student Financial Aid administers federal financial aid for graduate students. Many types of federal aid, such as the Federal Pell Grant, are not available to graduate students. However, the Federal Stafford Loan has extended loan limits for graduate students and is available to most students regardless of income. US citizens and eligible non-citizens can apply for the Federal Stafford Loan by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). The suggested deadline to apply is April 1 for the following Fall semester. Graduate students accepted into a degree program may borrow funds to cover their established cost of attendance, less any fellowship stipends or fee waivers, up to $18,500* per year. Further information and application forms are available from the Office of Student Financial Aid, G-01 Sikes Hall, Box 345123, Clemson, SC 29634-5123. Eligibility for Loans In order to qualify for a federal student loan, graduate students must be enrolled in at least five credits (half-time) in a single semester (fall, spring, or summer). Students may apply for certain private educational loans when enrolled less than half-time. Federal Graduate PLUS and Private loans are credit based and may require a co-signer. For more information please visit www.clemson.edu/financial-aid or email finaid@clemson.edu Special Employment Restrictions Graduate students who are employed in programs administered directly or indirectly by Clemson University and are found to be in default on payments of student loans will be subject to wage withholding (garnishment) according to Legislative Authority P.L. 102-164; To U.S.C. S1095A et seq. * All fees and charges listed are subject to change without notice. Student Employment Loans Fiscal Policy Policies and Procedures Forms Back to Top Copyright © 2019 Clemson University Graduate School | E-106 Martin Hall, Clemson University, Clemson SC 29634 Contact Us | Web Accessibility