Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Emotional Wellbeing Wellness on Campus There are lots of resources to keep you emotionally and physically well here at Brown. Feeling anxious? Yoga and meditation practice can be very beneficial for relieving anxiety. There are multiple resources for yoga and meditation practice on campus: Contemplative Studies Initiative at Brown Brown’s Contemplative Studies Initiative sponsors lectures and events, and affiliated faculty can provide advice on students’ academic and personal study of mindfulness and other contemplative practices. This site includes upcoming events, class listings and videos of recent guest lecturers. Meditation at Brown The Contemplative Studies Initiative lists some of the meditation opportunities on campus. Physical education classes at Brown The Athletics Department offers yoga and meditation classes throughout the year. Brown Meditation Community This site was developed by Brown students and includes information on how to meditate, links and resources. Brown Yoga and Mindfulness (YAM) The Yoga and Mindfulness Group is a student-run yoga group at Brown. Wellness at Alpert Medical Medical students can take advantage of yoga and meditation programs just for them as part of the Warren Alpert Medical School's wellness offerings. Feeling exhausted? Getting a better night's sleep will help you in all aspects of your life. BWell Sleep Page Get tips for a better night's sleep! BWell Sleep Assessment Take the BWell Sleep Hygiene Assessment Quiz to learn tips and strategies for a better night's sleep -- tailored to you! Having trouble sleeping? Getting a better night's sleep will help you in all aspects of your life. BWell Sleep Page Get tips for a better night's sleep! BWell Sleep Assessment Take the BWell Sleep Hygiene Assessment Quiz to learn tips and strategies for a better night's sleep -- tailored to you! Unable to do work? Feeling stressed and overwhelmed can leave us without the ability to focus and get work done when we need to. Here are campus resources to help you get back on track: Student Support Deans CAPS Academic Support Services Experiencing a loss of confidence? Many times feeling stressed and overwhelmed can also cause us to feel less confident or sure of ourselves. You are not along in this feeling and there are resources on campus that can help. CAPS Academic Support Services Seeking community and personal connection? Finding groups and people to connect with helps us to feel more at home and comfortable in our environment. Here are some of the many possible places to find these connections on campus. Black Student Wellness Collective Brown Center for Students of Color (BCSC) LGBTQ Center Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Office of International Student and Scholar Services (OISSS) Sarah Doyle Women's Center Student Groups at Brown Need to access support resources on campus? We all need help to be and stay well. If things get rough or you feel like you are struggling or just not thriving, don't hesitate to reach out for support from these resources. General Support Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) (401-863-3476) Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) provides crisis intervention, short-term individual therapy, group therapy, community outreach, and referral services. Appointments are free of charge, contacts with students are confidential, and CAPS is available to all currently registered students. Student Support Services, Office of Student Life (401-863-3145) Student Support Services staff assist students with a wide-range of issues and concerns that might arise during their time at Brown. The Student Support Services office supports the Administrator-On-Call system, which provides 24-hour crisis services for undergraduate, graduate, and medical students with personal or family emergencies. Deans are also available by appointment to consult with individual students about their personal questions/concerns during the university’s working hours. Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life (401-863-2344) The chaplains offer pastoral care and advisement for any member of the Brown community—students, staff, faculty, and alumni. Chaplains help to solve problems; ease discomfort; and function as advocates. Support Specific to Sexual and Gender-based Violence and Harassment Title IX (401-863-2386) SHARE Advocates (401-863-2794) Support Specific to Substance Use Issues Early Sobriety Group BWell Health Promotion Appointments (401-863-2794) Dean for Issues of Chemical Dependency (401-863-2536) About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook