Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Empower Learn Create at UC ELC right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Accredidation Annual Giving Programs & Rates Academic Calendar Classrooms Waiting List Home » About UC » Empower Learn Create at UC Empower, Learn, Create at UC Our mission is to serve children and families of the University of Cincinnati and community by providing a high quality, educational program sustained through a professional, nurturing staff. Child Care Offerings We serve children ranging from three months to five years of age year round, Monday through Friday from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. Additionally, during the summer we also serve children from 5-8 years of age. Empower Learn Create at UC is a seperate, not-for-profit organization that serves the children of University of Cincinnati students, faculty, and the community We offer a comprehensive early childhood education program designed to enhance the total development of each child in ways which respect and promote cultural diversity We serve 149 children ages 3 months to 8 years We are responsible to the needs of student parents attempting to complete college degrees We staff degreed professionals to work with young children We provide effective, affordable, high quality child care We provide state of the art learning and child development programs and facilities We offer a multi-cultural curriculum and a diverse population of children and staff We provide child care scholarships to help defray costs for many low-income student parents Staffing Empower Learn Create at UC is staffed by caring individuals with varying degrees of education and experience. Our Lead Teachers hold a minimum of an Associates degree in Early Childhood Education. Teacher Assistants and Aides receive on-going training to develop and strengthen their skills. Student Teachers from the university assist our regular teaching staff in the implementation of the program. Full Gallery Full Gallery Full Gallery Full Gallery Full Gallery Full Gallery Empower Learn Create at UC 3310 Ruther Ave Cincinnati, OH 45220 (513) 961-2825 (513) 281-7676 (fax) UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Empower Learn Create at UC 3310 Ruther Ave Cincinnati, OH 45220 (513) 961-2825 (513) 281-7676 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top