Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information CUIMC Update Sharing news for the faculty, staff, and trainees of Columbia University Irving Medical Center. View previous issues of CUIMC Update. Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories CUIMC Update - June 1, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Neighborhood Corner Co-Named Coogan's Way Coogan's bar and restaurant, the now-closed beloved fixture in Washington Heights, was celebrated with the co-naming of the corner of Broadway and 169th Street as Coogan's Way. Topic Campus News Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Pediatrics 3 Myths About Celiac Disease The nutritionists at Columbia University’s Celiac Disease Center have heard every myth about celiac disease, even from their own patients. Topic Campus News Latest News Columbia Fertility Clinic Opens in White Plains March 1, 2022 Columbia University Fertility Center has expanded into Westchester County and opened a new clinic in White Plains, New York. Topic Obstetrics-Gynecology Lumps and Bumps in Kids: When to Worry   February 25, 2022 Not every bump on a child’s body is a cause for concern. A guide to know when to call your doctor and when to stay home.   Topic Pediatrics Six VP&S Employees Receive Martha A. Hooven Awards for Excellence February 18, 2022 The Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons recognized six employees dedicated to supporting the mission of the medical school’s workplace and its vibrant community. Topic Campus News CUIMC Update - Feb. 15, 2022 February 15, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Three Columbia Physicians Named to American Society for Clinical Investigation February 14, 2022 Markus David Siegelin, Anne-Catrin Uhlemann, and Shan Zha are among 95 physician-scientists elected for their contributions at a relatively young age to the understanding of human disease. Topic Campus News What Black Women Should Know About Heart Disease February 11, 2022 Black American women are more likely than white women to develop heart disease, with stress and structural racism playing a role. Columbia cardiologist Marwah Abdalla explains. Topic Campus News We need to know more about long COVID in kids. February 10, 2022 Columbia researchers could receive up to $9.4 million to learn about long COVID in children and young adults as part of NIH’s REsearching COVID to Enhance Recovery (RECOVER) initiative.   Topic COVID-19 Is it safe for my child to return to play after a COVID infection?  February 7, 2022 When can a child return to gym class and organized sports after a COVID infection? Columbia University's pediatric cardiologists have guidance. Topic Campus News CUIMC Update - Feb. 7, 2022 February 7, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Small Study Finds Alzheimer's-like Changes in Some COVID Patients' Brains February 3, 2022 A study reports that the brains of a small sample of patients who died of COVID display some of the same molecular changes found in the brains of people with Alzheimer's disease. Topic Campus News Pages first previous … 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top