Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Sociology Home News People Programs On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Site Navigation Home News People Faculty Office and TA Lab Hours Ph.D. Students Master's Students Staff Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs A.B. in Sociology Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research Organizational Studies Track (S/OS) Honors Transfer Credit Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Ph.D. Program Funding Ph.D. Year by Year Awards Student Resources Student Publications Student Placements Master's in Social Analysis and Research Student Placements 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Applications FAQ Social Science Research Lab The Social Science Research Lab (SSRL) is a singular and versatile space for institutional instruction and research operated by the Department of Sociology. We offer 21 high-powered Windows workstations for use by graduate and undergraduate students affiliated in the social sciences. The lab also provides enterprise-grade networked printing, large-format poster printing, and presentation equipment for use within the department. For training or instruction, two 80" flat screen panels linked to a Windows workstation are viewable throughout the space. Each workstation has copies of: Microsoft Office SPSS STATA SAS ESRI ArcGIS R nVivo StatTransfer AMBeta Adobe Acrobat Adobe Photoshop Other Special-Purpose Tools Modest documentation for programs such as STATA can be found on the SSRL file share. We assist in establishing trainings to our graduate students in the use of Stata, SAS, ArcGIS, R, and data security best practices. Teaming up with colleagues in the Population Studies and Training Center, we can also provide assistance on such topics as effective presentation of quantitative information, creating large-format posters, and the effective use of other social science software. For more information, please contact the Social Science Research Lab System Administrator, at extension 3-2550. Department of Sociology Department of Sociology Brown University Box 1916 Maxcy Hall, 108 George Street Inner Campus – Lower Green Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2367 Fax: 401-863-3213 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top