Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Una Voce Home Faith Communities Catholic Una Voce Una Voce BC was founded in 2011 by students for the purpose of fostering the use of Latin in Liturgy at Boston College. Re-established in 2018, we offer the Mass at Boston College in the Extraordinary Form—the same form as was celebrated by the founder of the Society of Jesus, St. Ignatius of Loyola; Boston College founder Fr. John McElroy, S.J., and other great priests and saints. We encourage the reverent celebration of both the Ordinary Form and Extraordinary Form of the Roman Rite. We also encourage and promote Sacred Art and Sacred Music on campus. We celebrate the Latin Mass in the Extraordinary Form on certain Saturdays and Holidays in St. Joseph's Chapel on Upper Campus. It is our hope to develop a greater appreciation for the traditions of the Catholic Church in the Boston College community. Contact Mathieu Ronayne with any questions. Please join Una Voce every Monday at noon, Tuesday at 11:00 a.m., Wednesday at noon, and Thursday at 11:00 a.m. for Latin Mass in St. Joseph's Chapel in Gonzaga Hall of Upper Campus. We also celebrate Latin Masses on certain Saturdays and Holidays. Please join our email list below to stay updated on Mass times and other announcements! Subscribe Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry McElroy 233 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3475 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College