Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Biophysics Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Biophysics Major Apply Visit Request More Info Biophysics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Biophysics Study how the theories and methods of physics can be applied to biological systems with the Bachelor of Science in Biophysics in Temple's College of Science and Technology. Through the 123-credit-hour program, you’ll explore the fundamental principles of biology, chemistry, mathematics and physics and learn how these fields work together to advance scientific discovery. Graduates of the Biophysics Program are prepared to pursue professional degrees in medicine and pharmacy, or advanced degrees in biology, biophysics, molecular biology, neuroscience and other sciences. The Biophysics BS curriculum blends the study of biological systems with the computational and quantitative methods of mathematics and physics. The interdisciplinary nature of the program equips students with the knowledge and skills needed to solve a wide array of biological problems, from the molecular level to complex ecosystems. Specialists from a number of scientific fields contribute to the developing science of biophysics, including math, biology, physics, chemistry and engineering. Students in the Biophysics BS Program can participate in this scientific research through the Center for Biophysics and Computational Biology, where faculty lead cutting-edge computational research at the intersection of biology, biophysics and chemistry. Classes & Curriculum In this program, courses will include Cell Structure and Function, Electricity and Magnetism, Genetics, Introduction to Modern Physics, and Mathematical Physics. Learn more about Biophysics BS courses. Related Graduate Degrees Bioinformatics PSM Bioinnovation PSM Biology MS Biology PhD Biomedical Sciences MS Biomedical Sciences PhD Biotechnology PSM Chemistry MS Chemistry PhD Mathematics MS Mathematics PhD Doctor of Medicine* Doctor of Pharmacy** Pharmaceutical Sciences MS** Pharmaceutical Sciences PhD** Physician Assistant MMS* *Lewis Katz School of Medicine ** School of Pharmacy +1 Bachelor-Master Programs The College of Science and Technology offers +1 Accelerated Bachelor-Master Programs. Students can earn a BA or BS and, at the end of the fifth year, an MA or MS. Coursework is completed over five years instead of taking the usual six-year course of study. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s +1 Bachelor-Master programs. Dual Bachelor-Master Program for International Students International students have the opportunity to earn a bachelor’s degree from their home institution and a graduate degree from Temple over five years. This multidisciplinary program includes undergraduate- and graduate-level coursework at Temple. Students are prepared for professional careers in today’s global economy and job market. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s Dual Bachelor-Master Program for international students. 3+4 Accelerated Programs The College of Science and Technology offers 3+4 Accelerated Degree Programs in a seven-year course of study, instead of the usual eight years. Qualifying undergraduate students can obtain the Biophysics Major from CST and a Doctor of Medicine in Dentistry from the Kornberg School of Dentistry, Doctor of Podiatric Medicine from the School of Podiatric Medicine, Doctor of Medicine from the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, or Doctor of Pharmacy Medicine from the School of Pharmacy. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s 3+4 Accelerated Degree Programs. 3+3 Accelerated Program Qualified students can earn the Biophysics Major and a Doctor of Physical Therapy from the College of Public Health over a five-year course of study, instead of taking the usual six years. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology's 3+3 Accelerated Degree Program. Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program The College of Science and Technology Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program is designed for students planning to apply to medical school or pursue other health-related professions. The program offers the following two tracks. The Basic Core in Health Sciences is intended for professionals who need the required science courses to apply to medical school. The Advanced Core in Health Sciences is a program for current students who have met the premedical requirements and who seek advanced science coursework. Both tracks include classes in the Lewis Katz School of Medicine and the College of Science and Technology. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,568.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,792.00 per year Our Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate New Student Orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides post-graduation guidance, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development's academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. Program Contact Contact the following faculty for more information about the Biophysics BS. Zbigniew Dziembowski is the faculty advisor and associate professor in the Department of Physics. Phone: 215-204-7639 Email: zbig.dziembowski@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs provide you with valuable opportunities to meet scientists working in the field, learn about internship or employment opportunities, and connect with your peers. The College of Science and Technology offers 17 pre-health clubs and 15 major clubs. Consider enriching your academic and social life by joining clubs like The Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM fields. The Biology Society helps students find and understand their career opportunities in the field. Leadership, Education and Development in Science empowers Philadelphia middle school students to take an interest in STEM through mentor-led science experiments. The Temple University Forensics Association helps students form an interest in forensic science through field trips and professional networking opportunities. The Philadelphia Organic Chemists Club is one of the oldest independent chemistry clubs in the area, which brings together professional scientists and chemistry students through events and programs. The Temple University Chemical Society helps students pursuing chemistry degrees with their coursework and that offers service opportunities in the community. The Temple University Forensics Association helps students form an interest in forensic science through field trips and professional networking opportunities. The Undergraduate Neuroscience Society welcomes students interested in neuroscience to meet and discuss related topics, as well as find volunteer and career opportunities. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away Deepen your understanding of your math, natural science or computer science coursework by experiencing firsthand how such disciplines are studied overseas. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Learn more about your options for studying away. College of Science and Technology undergraduate students can also take part in international research. These opportunities include the following external scholarship programs. The Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship provides funding for underrepresented students to study in nontraditional destinations such as Australia and Eastern Europe. The Boren Scholarship Summer STEM Initiative offers undergraduate STEM majors opportunities to participate in a language-intensive program. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research and Temple offer opportunities for students in biology, chemistry and physics programs to work in research groups in Pune, India, over the summer. The Siena Biomedical Research Program provides the opportunity for students to spend their summer working full time in a biotechnology and pathology lab based in Tuscany, Italy. The Sicily Applied Biotechnology Program allows students to learn the biological basis behind the technology used for art conservation and then apply that knowledge in the laboratory and in the field. Learn more about study abroad programs for College of Science and Technology students. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-BIOP-BS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Biophysics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info