Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) Show/Hide About Compliance and Oversight Action Plans Initiatives Resources Incident Reporting Events Staff Institutional equity and diversity at Brown is led by OIED. The office works with partners across campus to promote and sustain diversity and inclusion initiatives. OIED also oversees the Title IX and Gender Equity Office as well as unlawful discrimination and harassment based on a protected class. You may reach the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity by calling (401) 863-2216 or by emailing [email protected]. You may reach the Title IX and Gender Equity Office by calling (401) 863-2026. Staff Sylvia Carey-Butler, Vice President for Institutional Equity and Diversity Sana Amini, Institutional Equity Officer Juana De Los Santos, Assistant Vice President of Equal Opportunity and Diversity Tiffany Enos, Director of Inclusion and Campus Engagement Jeana Horton, Institutional Equity Investigator/Interim Title IX Program Officer Susan Jamiel, Executive Assistant to the Vice President for Institutional Equity and Diversity Kelsey Kangos, Director of Institutional Equity and Diversity Ebony Manning, Title IX Coordinator Rowan McKenna, Administrative Coordinator for Equity & Diversity, Title IX & Gender Equity Associated Staff Alyssia Coates, Director of Development for Diversity and Inclusion, Advancement/Development Maria Fontes, Custodial Shift Assistant, Facilities Management About Our Staff Sylvia Carey-Butler Dr. Sylvia R. Carey-Butler, an accomplished higher education leader with deep experience leading diversity and inclusion initiatives, is Brown University’s Vice President for Institutional Equity and Diversity. Carey-Butler previously served as chief diversity officer for Kennesaw State University, where she designed the diversity and inclusion curriculum for the American Council on Education’s fellows program, was named to the Top 100 Diversity Officers by the National Diversity Council in 2021, and was honored as one of 35 outstanding women in the U.S. by Diverse: Issues in Higher Education in 2020 for her contributions to higher education. Carey-Butler has led the university’s initiative to develop a long-term diversity and inclusion action plan; established clear, meaningful and measurable goals and metrics; and developed strategies and programs focused on the successful recruitment and retention of students, faculty and staff. Among other responsibilities and accomplishments, she leads the university’s Presidential Task Force on Race, established diversity liaisons in each of KSU’s academic colleges and implemented a team of student diversity ambassadors. From 2013 to 2019, she served as assistant chancellor for academic support of inclusive excellence at the University of Wisconsin Oshkosh, where she was responsible for building collaborative partnerships across campus to create an equitable campus climate and inclusive learning environment. As the former interim executive director of the United Negro College Fund’s (UNCF) Institute for Capacity Building and director of UNCF’s Enrollment Management Program, Carey-Butler has also held numerous positions in higher education in New York state. Previously, she served as assistant provost and dean of honors at Dillard University in New Orleans and as associate dean of studies at Lafayette College in Easton, Pennsylvania. In addition to her university leadership positions, Carey-Butler has researched and presented extensively on student recruitment and retention in higher education, African American women administrators in the academy and African American men in higher education. She is the former chair of the Oshkosh (Wisconsin) Area Community Food Pantry and the Oshkosh Housing Authority. Carey-Butler earned a Ph.D. in higher education administration and policy from Vanderbilt University and a master’s degree in social science from Binghamton University. A native of Schenectady, New York, she holds a bachelor’s degree from the State University of New York at Oneonta. Juana De Los Santos Juana De Los Santos is the Assistant Vice President of Equal Opportunity and Diversity at Brown. In this role, Juana oversees the compliance arm of the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity, which includes Title IX, discrimination and harassment, bias incidents, and the affirmative action plan. Juana also serves as the University's Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action Officer and the ADA/Section 504 Coordinator for appeals. Juana De Los Santos served in the U.S. Marine Corps for over a decade during which time she completed four overseas deployments and served as one of only 37 Equal Opportunity Advisors in the entire Marine Corps. Before her honorable discharge, Juana completed her Bachelor of Science in Psychology as well as her Master’s of Science in Industrial and Organizational Psychology. After leaving the Marine Corps, Juana continued her career at George Washington University where she oversaw their Affirmative Action Program and managed complaints of discrimination. Before coming to Brown, she worked at the State of Rhode Island where she served as the Administrator for the State Equal Opportunity Office and oversaw the state's equal opportunity program. Juana recently completed an Executive Master of Business Administration at The George Washington University. Tiffany Enos Tiffany Enos is the Director of Inclusion and Campus Engagement in OIED. In this role, she supports the implementation of OIED signature programs and initiatives within DIAP Phase II, coordinates opportunities for staff engagement and training, and provides support to the newly established affinity groups. Additionally, she will serve as the liaison between OIED and the student identity centers within the Division of Campus Life (e.g., LGBTQ Center, BCSC, etc). A true collaborator, Tiffany has managed university-wide initiatives in every institution where she has worked. She is a thoughtful and skilled facilitator having delivered workshops and training to thousands of participants and takes a person-centered approach to her work. Most recently, Tiffany served as Director of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at Boston University's Questrom School of Business where she launched the Center for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion to build community, co-create with students and serve as a hub and resource to support DEI initiatives across the school. Tiffany holds a Bachelor's degree in psychology and communications and a Master's degree in counseling psychology from Boston College. She believes in centering mindfulness and radical self-love in order to sustain efforts for social change.