Skip to site alert. Skip to content Student Health on Haven After-Hours Care Emergencies Student Health Portal Search About Us About Us Our Team Appointments and Services Advanced Access Scheduling Confidentiality Emergencies After-Hours Care News and Announcements Events Contact Us Advanced Directive Patient Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Counseling Services Insurance and Administration Medical Services Well-Being and Health Promotion Our Services Our Services Acupuncture Acute and Chronic Illness Treatment Laboratory Services Men's Health Nutrition Services Occupational Exposures PrEP - Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis for HIV Preventive Services Travel Medicine Transgender Health Vaccinations Women's Health Groups and Gathering Spaces Individual Counseling Psychiatric Evaluation Well-Being Strategy Sessions AIMS Appointment for Substance Use We provide a full range of primary care medical services, counseling services, and health promotion programming to support your well-being. Outreach and Programs Outreach and Programs Addiction Information and Management Strategies (AIMS) AIMS Mini-Grants Campus Connect Training Mental Health Rounds Motivational Interviewing Training Naloxone Training Queer and Ally Partnership Social Host (SoHo) Alcohol Training Well-Being Curriculum Infusion Well-Being and Health Promotion Programs Student Health provides programs and training opportunities to support and extend your health sciences education and training at CUIMC. Insurance and Administration Insurance and Administration Pre-Registration Requirements Health Insurance Waiving Coverage Enrollment and Fees Supplemental Insurance for Clinical Students Dental Benefits Vision Benefits Insurance FAQ Contact the Team Medical Records Request We are here to provide help with insurance information, reimbursements or billing concerns, and other administrative needs. Resources and Support Resources and Support COVID-19 Resources CUIMC My SSP - 24/7 Support via Chat & Phone Black Well-Being and Ally Resources Asian and AAPI Students Disability Services Helping a Friend or Student in Distress International Students LGBTQ+ Students Sexual and Reproductive Health Students with Children Support for Survivors of Sexual Violence Veterans COVID-19 Resources COVID-19 Vaccine Information for Students COVID-19 Testing for CUIMC Students How to Isolate or Quarantine Coping During a Pandemic COVID-19 Student Service Corps (CSSC) Student Health on Haven is committed to connecting you to resources to support all dimensions of graduate student well-being. Pre-Registration Requirements Health Insurance Waiving Coverage Enrollment and Fees Supplemental Insurance for Clinical Students Dental Benefits Vision Benefits Insurance FAQ Contact the Team Medical Records Request Insurance and Administration The Insurance and Administration team is here to provide help with insurance information, reimbursements or billing concerns, and other needs. Our offices are located at 100 Haven Avenue, Tower 2, on the 2nd Floor. Please note that in observance of COVID-19 safety protocols, we are currently only available remotely, either by phone or email. Please contact us at shsinsurance@cumc.columbia.edu. We are ready to provide assistance with: Student health insurance enrollment & waiver process Insurance coverage information & claims Student account billing questions Reimbursement process Other related adminstrative needs as they arise Operational Changes Due to COVID-19 Due to COVID-19 safety protocols, Insurance and Adminstration is only available remotely, either by phone or email at shsinsurance@cumc.columbia.edu. Health Insurance Important information about health insurance for CUIMC students. Health Insurance Waiving Coverage If you have comparable insurance, you can waive your Columbia University Student Health Insurance. Employees receiving university benefits can waive their Health and Related Services Fee. Waiving Coverage Pre-Registration Requirements Before you can register for classes, you must complete all pre-registration health requirements in addition to the requirements outlined in the admission letter for your specific program. Pre-Registration Requirements Enrollment and Fees Enrollment and fee information for the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan. Enrollment and Fees Supplemental Insurance for Clinical Students For Clinical Students Only All clinical students enrolled on the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan will be enrolled in an annual supplemental plan to cover blood borne pathogen exposures. Supplemental Insurance for Clinical Students Dental Benefits Dental Benefits for students enrolled in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan. Dental Benefits Vision Benefits Aetna VisionSM Discount Program The Aetna Vision Discount Program is available to all students and spouses enrolled in the Columbia University Student Health Insurance plan. Vision Benefits Insurance FAQ Frequently asked questions about insurance coverage for CUIMC students. Insurance FAQ Contact the Team Contact the Student Health on Haven Insurance and Administration team. Contact the Team Columbia University Irving Medical Center About Us Insurance and Administration Our Services Outreach and Programs Resources and Support Student Health Portal Columbia University Irving Medical Center Student Health on Haven Tower 2, 100 Haven Avenue 2nd Floor, Suite 230 New York, NY 10032 United States 212-305-3400 Follow Us Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top