Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News Stay Connected Alumni Benefits and Services Alumni Job Board Volunteer Support The College of Dental Medicine Reunion Weekend Alumni Stories Class Notes Alumni The Association of Dental Alumni Welcome! With nearly 6,000 members living and practicing around the world, the College of Dental Medicine Alumni Association is truly a community of leaders in oral healthcare. All graduates automatically become members of the Association of Dental Alumni. The Alumni Association offers a wide range of networking opportunities, events, and many other ways to stay involved with the exciting things that are happening here. Please make sure to update your contact information in the new Columbia Alumni Community portal and follow us on Facebook. We also regularly post career opportunities on our Alumni Job Board. Alumni support is critical to our mission and we hope you will consider giving back to the College of Dental Medicine. With your help, we will continue to educate and inspire the next generation of dental leaders, provide outstanding care for underserved populations, and conduct groundbreaking research that advances oral health worldwide. We hope you will stay connected! Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top