Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Career Services Reciprocity Reciprocity SMU Dedman Law Students Wishing to Request Reciprocity from Another ABA-Accredited Law School: SMU Dedman School of Law has established reciprocal arrangements with a number of law schools around the country. In order for our students and graduates to be granted reciprocity, all schools require that SMU Dedman School of Law first send a “letter of reciprocity” requesting services. Services vary among law schools, but most provide in-office access to their job listings and employment bulletins, the use of their facilities and resource libraries. A few schools may allow online access to job postings on a one-on-one basis for a short period of time, but the majority of law schools require you to access job postings in person on the computers in their offices. If you are an SMU law student or graduate, the Office of Career Services will request reciprocity on your behalf to any ABA-accredited law school. Please note the following: Before making your request, please go to each school’s website and read their reciprocity policy and guidelines, as each school has its own reciprocity policy. Click here for the links to the reciprocity policies of most NALP member law schools. Each school has blackout dates during the recruiting season and does not accept requests during these times. Take note of the blackout dates listed on the school’s website and plan your visit accordingly. Send an email with your request of up to three (3) schools to lawcareer@smu.edu. Include your graduation year or expected graduation date and the approximate dates you expect to be visiting the school. Note that a number of schools located in major metropolitan areas, such as New York, Chicago and Los Angeles, will honor a request to only one law school in their area. In Texas, the University of Houston Law Center, South Texas College of Law and Texas Southern University Thurgood Marshall School of Law, will honor a request to only one of these schools in the Houston area. If reciprocity is granted, students/alumni should honor the reciprocity policy of the host school that is outlined in the email received granting reciprocity. It is up to you to contact the school’s office and arrange a time to visit if required. Make sure to ask how the school would like for you to store any job bank information (flash drive, CD, email, etc). Remember to take a copy of your letter and a photo ID with you. Reciprocity for Students or Graduates of Other Law Schools SMU Dedman School of Law Reciprocity Policy SMU Dedman School of Law will allow reasonable access to resources to third-year law students and graduates of other ABA-accredited law schools outside of the Dallas-Fort Worth metropolitan area that grant reciprocal services to SMU Dedman School of Law students and graduates. How to Request Reciprocity Requests for reciprocity must be made in writing by a career services official from the requesting student’s or graduate’s law school. A request for reciprocity should be sent by email and must be received and granted at least one week prior to any visit to our campus. Please include the following information: 1. Name of the law school 2. Name of the law student or graduate 3. Year of graduation of the law student or graduate 4. Email address of the law student or graduate Walk-in and telephone requests will not be granted. Direct inquiries to the following: Email: lawcareer@smu.edu Marcie Davis, Assistant Dean SMU Dedman School of Law Office of Career Services P.O. Box 750112 Dallas, TX 75275-0112 Reciprocity is granted for 60 days, effective from the date of correspondence from our office approving the request. Reciprocity allows in-office access to current job postings, handouts, books related to career development and the job search, directories and computers all of which are available in the Resource Center of the Office of Career Services. Upon arrival, visitors should check-in at the front desk during our regular business hours (Monday to Friday from 8:30 a.m. until 5:00 p.m.) and present student identification or a driver’s license and the letter approving reciprocity. There is no need to call ahead of the visit. Limitations and Restrictions Reciprocity will not be granted from August 1st through December 1st or February 1st through March 1st. Reciprocity does not include career counseling sessions, resume review, referrals, job fairs, on-campus recruiting programs or remote access to online job postings. Reciprocity is granted on a case-by-case basis. SMU Dedman School of Law reserves the right to adjust reciprocity requirements if the requesting school has a more restrictive policy or to withhold reciprocity, in the event that the Office of Career Services receives more reciprocity requests from a school than that school receives from SMU Dedman School of Law students. In certain instances, reciprocity may be refused due to lack of mutual interest by our students and alumni. If an imbalance occurs, we may implement a temporary freeze until a balance is achieved. Reciprocity is not granted to students or graduates from other Dallas-Fort Worth area law schools. This policy will be reviewed periodically to keep pace with employment demands of the legal community. Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Hire SMU Law! Post a Job Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram