Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Sons of St. Patrick Home Faith Communities Catholic Sons of St. Patrick The Sons of St. Patrick, a society of Catholic men at Boston College, is dedicated to fostering a community of virtue, character, and faith amongst our peers and surrounding society. Founded on the pillars of Faith, Fortitude, and Fraternity, we seek to create a brotherhood of Christian gentlemen dedicated to leading virtuous lives, whose actions reflect an understanding of what it means to be a true disciple of Christ. The Sons of St. Patrick commit to daily prayer, Mass twice a week, and monthly confession, confident that it is through an ever-deepening relationship with Jesus Christ that we will be able to respond with courage and humility to our call to holiness as individuals and as a community. Through prayer, conversation, action, and brotherhood, we seek nothing less than the spiritual and social transformation of ourselves and the society around us…through Christ, in Christ, with Christ, and for Christ! Register We are meeting in person again for Evening Prayer, discussion, and fraternity in St. Mary’s Hall on Thursdays from 7-8 pm. To stay updated make sure to subscribe to our email list below. If you have any questions please email Fr. Paul McNellis, S.J., or Max Montana. Subscribe Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry McElroy 233 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3475 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College