Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Music: Performance (BM) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) Music In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Admission Requirements Audition Requirements for Admission Acceptance into the Department of Music is conditional upon completion of a successful audition. Go to https://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/music/program-requirements/ to learn more about specific audition requirements and recommended repertoire for each instrument and voice. The audition will serve as a placement examination for accepted candidates. Professional Sequence Entrance Review During the fourth semester of applied study, each student will be required to pass the Professional Sequence Entrance Review, which will include the following: An evaluation of performance skills Completion of Performance I and II Completion of Class Piano IV Overall GPA of at least 2.5, and a GPA for all music courses of at least 3.0. This review is a pre-requisite for Performance level III. Completion of the following courses: MUS 2360C - Introduction to Music Technology Credit Hours: 3 MUT 2127 - Music Theory and Musicianship IV Credit Hours: 4 Degree Requirements Prior to attending the first music class as a music major at UCF, all students must take a keyboard placement examination to determine the appropriate level of class piano. Go to https://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/study/#musicundergrad to see the class piano requirements. Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. At least 65 hours of credit must be earned in music courses. Departmental Residency Requirement; at least 30 hours must be taken from the UCF Music department. Performance students must present two faculty-approved public recitals. Students should consult with a departmental advisor for course selection. Courses designated in General Education Program are usually completed throughout four years of study. Students must complete a faculty-approved Senior BM web portfolio. A cumulative minimum GPA of 3.00 based upon all courses required in the major as well as all courses taken in music is required. Failure to maintain this standard may result in program probation or dismissal. Please refer to the SPA Student Handbook (http://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/academics/student-resources) for details on program standards. View Full Description Program Tracks/Options Music Performance (BM) - Jazz Studies Music Performance (BM) - Composition Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Baritone Chorus Master Clarinetist Flutist Graphic Design Professor Instrumentalist Maestro Music Adapter Music Professor Opera Singer Orchestra Conductor Orchestra Director Orchestrator Percussionist Piano Professor Stagecraft Professor Theatre Professor Trombonist Violist Voice Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors Music: Performance (BM) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Admission Requirements Audition Requirements for Admission Acceptance into the Department of Music is conditional upon completion of a successful audition. Go to https://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/music/program-requirements/ to learn more about specific audition requirements and recommended repertoire for each instrument and voice. The audition will serve as a placement examination for accepted candidates. Professional Sequence Entrance Review During the fourth semester of applied study, each student will be required to pass the Professional Sequence Entrance Review, which will include the following: An evaluation of performance skills Completion of Performance I and II Completion of Class Piano IV Overall GPA of at least 2.5, and a GPA for all music courses of at least 3.0. This review is a pre-requisite for Performance level III. Completion of the following courses: MUS 2360C - Introduction to Music Technology Credit Hours: 3 MUT 2127 - Music Theory and Musicianship IV Credit Hours: 4 Degree Requirements Prior to attending the first music class as a music major at UCF, all students must take a keyboard placement examination to determine the appropriate level of class piano. Go to https://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/study/#musicundergrad to see the class piano requirements. Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. At least 65 hours of credit must be earned in music courses. Departmental Residency Requirement; at least 30 hours must be taken from the UCF Music department. Performance students must present two faculty-approved public recitals. Students should consult with a departmental advisor for course selection. Courses designated in General Education Program are usually completed throughout four years of study. Students must complete a faculty-approved Senior BM web portfolio. A cumulative minimum GPA of 3.00 based upon all courses required in the major as well as all courses taken in music is required. Failure to maintain this standard may result in program probation or dismissal. Please refer to the SPA Student Handbook (http://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/academics/student-resources) for details on program standards. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 6 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 6 credits from the following: MUS2360C - Introduction to Music Technology (3) MUS1010 - Music Forum MUH3633 - Music in the United States (3) MUL2720 - Music of the World (3) GEP Course : MUL 2720 Core Requirements: Advanced Level 24 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 24 credits from the following: MUS3953 - Recital Performance I MUS4954 - Recital Performance II MUG3104 - Basic Conducting (2) MUH3211 - Music History and Literature I (3) MUH3212 - Music History and Literature II (3) MVX 343X - Performance III (2 Semesters) Credit Hours: 6 MVX 444X - Performance IV (2 Semesters) Credit Hours: 8 MUN XXXX - Major Ensembles (Piano students take MUN 3453; guitar students take MUN 3484) Credit Hours: 2 Choose one MUT 3XXX or MUT 4XXX course Credit Hours: 3 GEP Course : MUH 3212 Specialty Requirements: 22 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following (Choose One): Piano Complete all of the following Complete the following: MUL3400 - Piano Literature I (2) MUL3401 - Piano Literature II (2) MVK4640 - Piano Pedagogy I (2) MUN3453 - Piano Ensemble (1) MUN3453 - Piano Ensemble (1) Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: Restricted Electives Earn at least 5 credits from the following types of courses: Electives Guitar Complete all of the following Complete the following: MUL4437 - String Literature and Pedagogy (3) MUN3487 - Guitar Ensemble (1) MUN3487 - Guitar Ensemble (1) Earn at least 12 credits from the following types of courses: Restricted Electives Earn at least 5 credits from the following types of courses: Electives Voice Complete all of the following Complete the following: MUS1250 - IPA for Singers (1) MUS3255 - German and English Lyric Diction (2) MUS3254 - Italian and French Lyric Diction (2) MVV4640 - Voice Pedagogy (2) MUL3602 - Song Literature (3) Earn at least 2 credits from the following types of courses: MUN XXXX - Major Ensembles Earn at least 2 credits from the following types of courses: MUN XXXX - Minor Ensembles Earn at least 8 credits from the following types of courses: Foreign Language (French, German, or Italian) Woodwinds Complete all of the following Complete the following: MUL4444 - Woodwind Literature and Pedagogy (3) Earn at least 2 credits from the following types of courses: MUN XXXX - Major Ensembles Earn at least 4 credits from the following types of courses: MUN XXXX - Minor Ensembles Earn at least 8 credits from the following types of courses: Restricted Electives Earn at least 5 credits from the following types of courses: Electives Brass Complete all of the following Complete the following: MUL4443 - Brass Literature and Pedagogy (3) Earn at least 2 credits from the following types of courses: MUN XXXX - Major Ensembles Earn at least 4 credits from the following types of courses: MUN XXXX - Minor Ensembles Earn at least 8 credits from the following types of courses: Restricted Electives Earn at least 5 credits from the following types of courses: Electives Percussion Complete all of the following Complete the following: MUL3463 - Percussion Literature (2) MVP3630 - Percussion Pedagogy (2) Earn at least 2 credits from the following types of courses: MUN XXXX - Major Ensembles Earn at least 4 credits from the following types of courses: MUN XXXX - Minor Ensembles Earn at least 7 credits from the following types of courses: Restricted Electives Earn at least 5 credits from the following types of courses: Electives Strings Complete all of the following Complete the following: MUL4437 - String Literature and Pedagogy (3) Earn at least 2 credits from the following types of courses: MUN XXXX - Major Ensembles Earn at least 4 credits from the following types of courses: MUN XXXX - Minor Ensembles Earn at least 8 credits from the following types of courses: Restricted Electives Earn at least 5 credits from the following types of courses: Electives Grand Total Credits: 52 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida