Journey to the Top 50 - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to President Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search President About Renu Khator Boards and Committees Communications Leadership and Staff UH Home President Communications Communicae Provost Search Committee Announcement President About Renu Khator Boards and Committees Communications Fall Address Presidential Publications Leadership and Staff Journey to the Top 50 March 29, 2022 Dear Faculty and Staff, Last year, we announced the University of Houston’s bold, new vision to become a Top 50 public university. We knew that achieving this goal would not be easy. No. It would challenge us to stretch to a higher level … to think in ways that we’ve never thought before – and that’s exactly why we made it our vision. Aiming to become a Top 50 university calls us to greater excellence, not for our glory, but for the greater good of those whom we serve. When we rise, our students, communities and world can soar. Innovations and new ventures are birthed, and our societal and economic impact is amplified. Breaking boundaries is not new to UH. The University has experienced explosive growth in the last decade. We achieved Carnegie Tier One status earlier than forecast, reached record-breaking enrollments, exceeded a $1billion fundraising goal ahead of schedule, increased graduation rates and academic program rankings, established Houston’s first medical school in more than 40 years and reclaimed our athletic excellence. History shows: Becoming a Top 50 public university is not an insurmountable challenge. It’s our destiny. In this publication, you’ll find a glimpse of what our journey to the top entails and the transformative efforts we’re taking to get there. We delve into the multifaceted strategy to further bolster our students’ success, our ambitious plan to recruit 100 new faculty and the dynamic road ahead for UH Athletics. You’ll also learn how we’re embracing society’s big challenges, including the energy transition, health equity and health care delivery reform to help move our communities and nation forward. Our ambitious vision has sparked creativity and life-changing new endeavors, and the beautiful stories in this publication capture its powerful impact. Becoming a Top 50 public university is beyond a lofty goal. It’s the fulfillment of our duty to transform lives and communities. I invite you to read more, get inspired and join us on our journey to the next level. Together, we rise. Together, we soar. Let’s go! Renu Khator President, University of Houston University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies