By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Cost & Aid In this Section Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Apply for Aid Policies Definitions Contact Cost and Financial Aid Syracuse University believes that a world-class education should be available to every admitted student who wants to attend, regardless of financial need. More than 83 percent of our students receive aid—the majority of it in the form of grants and scholarships that do not have to be repaid. Request Information Cost of Attendance Link Check out detailed information on the cost of attendance for Syracuse University undergraduates, graduates and international students. Available Aid Link Paying for college should be manageable for students at every income level. Syracuse University has grants, scholarships, loans and special programs that can be tailored to meet individual needs. Support is even available for summer and study abroad programs. We’ll help you find the aid that works for you. Apply for Financial Aid Link You’ve invested your future in Syracuse University, so apply for the financial aid you need to make that investment pay off. Let's Talk Link The Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs works for you. Our goal is to make the financial aid process as simple and transparent as possible, so please share your questions and concerns with us. Remember Dates and Deadlines! Link If you’re applying for financial aid, review the required applications and due dates. In order to be considered for aid, you must file all of your application materials by the specified dates. Did you know… During the 2019-20 academic year, approximately 80 percent of Syracuse University students received some form of financial support totaling more than $414 million. The single largest form of financial aid was more than $295 million awarded to students in the form of Syracuse University grants and scholarships. Honestly, I didn’t envision myself pursuing higher education because I thought it wasn’t financially feasible. From a very young age, I had to take responsibility. My leadership skills were born out of a necessity to survive and change my circumstances. Read His Story —Azarius Williams ’20, Posse Scholar, Our Time Has Come Scholar, Ronald E. McNair Scholar, Remembrance Scholar Frequently Asked Questions Link Are financial aid awards taxable? Do I need to file for financial aid every year? If I receive my Student Aid Report (SAR) and it says I am selected for verification, what do I need to do? What if there is a change in my family situation or I have special circumstances? Should I send Syracuse University my income tax returns? What types of financial aid must be repaid and what types do not have to be repaid? More frequently asked questions Featured Stories Liam Kirst ’20, Say Yes to Education Scholar “For me, Say Yes offered a profound reason to stay in Syracuse. It was an opportunity to attend a shining university on the hill, tuition free, in a city that had already taught me so much.” Related Pages CARES Act Emergency Aid Syracuse University was recently awarded funding from the federal Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act to help mitigate financial impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic for our students. Here you will find some frequently asked questions as well as resources to complete a request for additional funding. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy