Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Health Information Management Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Health Information Management Major Apply Visit Request More Info Health Information Management Major Admissions Information Departmental Research Fieldwork & Internships Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Health Information Management The Bachelor of Science in Health Information Management at Temple’s College of Public Health is a rigorous, nationally recognized, interdisciplinary degree program. Students develop expertise in healthcare policy, healthcare system infrastructure and information technology. You will learn how to comply with legal requirements and healthcare policy; design, construct and query databases; generate data analytics; and navigate healthcare payments and financing systems. Students who complete the degree are eligible to earn the nationally recognized certification as a Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA) from the American Health Information Management Association. Health Information Management professionals design and manage health information systems while paying special attention to the quality and privacy of health information. They work in a wide range of settings, such as hospitals, insurance and pharmaceutical companies, managed and ambulatory care, technology firms and public health organizations. Graduates have the transferable skills to work as business and data analysts, coders, database managers and researchers. There is high demand for their skills, and job salaries are competitive for graduates who pass the RHIA certification examination. The admissions process for the Health Information Management Major will vary depending on if you are a current Temple student or if you are applying as a transfer student. Please be sure to carefully review the admissions information for this degree program. What sets apart our BS in Health Information Management? An essential role in the healthcare system: Professionals in the field play an essential role in advancing patient health. Health information systems are central to diagnosing and treating patients, optimizing healthcare delivery, and improving health outcomes among populations. A supportive academic environment: Through small class sizes, this academic degree program fosters a tight-knit community of students who support each other inside and outside the classroom through social and service projects, especially through the program’s active student association. Faculty expertise and mentorship: Health information management faculty have extensive experience in the field, giving you a real-time connection to industry trends and developments. They have strong connections across the Philadelphia region—helping you develop your professional network and secure internships and employment. Program Format and Licensure Options The BS in Health Information Management is a two-year program that students complete during their junior and senior years of undergraduate study. Students apply for the BS in Health Information Management in sophomore year. In order to apply, you will need to have completed specific courses that prepare you to be successful in this rigorous program. Once admitted, students complete 61 credits of professional Health Information Management (HIM) courses, including one internship. Freshman students are strongly encouraged to enter the Pre-HIM program in order to prepare to apply and to maximize their chances of admission. The Pre-HIM program includes focused academic advising and specific courses that teach students fundamentals of information technology, medical terminology and other foundational knowledge in preparation for the BS in Health Information Management curriculum. See a full list of program courses. The curriculum for this degree prepares you to take the RHIA certification exam, which will dramatically increase your prospects for employment after graduation. Our Academic Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising services to students in each department. Our advising staff will work with you to set goals and help you reach your academic potential. Meet our academic advisors. Related Graduate Programs MS in Health Informatics Health Informatics Graduate Certificate MPH in Health Policy and Management Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Study Away Become an informed, active global citizen and enrich your education by studying away. Explore Temple’s study abroad opportunities, including information about specific programs and visas, as well as resources on cultural adaptation, diversity matters, and health and safety. Learn more about studying away. Vision, Mission and Goals The vision of the Health Information Management Major program is to prepare valued collaborators and leaders in the health information management (HIM) and health informatics (HI) professions. Mission Educate undergraduate and graduate students in HIM and HI. Engage in HIM and HI best practices that advance the public’s health. Provide service to the healthcare professional community at the local, regional and national levels. Goals Educate students to become valued collaborators and leaders in the HIM and HI professions. Provide educational programs in HIM and HI. Provide leadership in education and professional service. Promote the use of health information to improve population health through curriculum innovations and advancement in practice. Support lifelong learning for faculty. Accreditation and Program Outcomes The Health Information Management accreditor of Temple University is the Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM). The college’s accreditation for the baccalaureate degree in Health Information Management has been reaffirmed through 2021. All inquiries about the program’s accreditation status should be directed to CAHIIM. 200 East Randolph Street, Suite 5100 Chicago, IL 60601 Phone: 312-235-3255 Email: info@cahiim.org Graduation rate for class of 2020: 100% Retention rate for class of 2020: 97% RHIA exam pass rate of first-time test takers for class of 2020: 100% Employment rate (within one year of graduation) for class of 2020: 81% College of Public Health Accreditation Temple’s College of Public Health is fully accredited by CEPH. The college is one of only two CEPH-accredited schools of public health in the Philadelphia region and one of three in the state of Pennsylvania. Learn more about the College of Public Health’s accreditations. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science in Health Information Management offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,184.00 per year Out-of-state: $35,016.00 per year HP-HIM-BSHIM Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Health Information Management Major Admissions Information Departmental Research Fieldwork & Internships Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info