COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News September 23, 2021Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and SciencesCOVID-19Growing Innovation and ResearchFaculty/StaffChemistrypandemic Wichita State chemist partners with area universities on $3.7M COVID-19 research By Strategic Communications A Wichita State University scientist is part of a team that has been awarded a five-year, $3.7 million grant from the National Institutes of Health to further research a treatment for COVID-19. Dr. Bill Groutas, medicinal chemist at Wichita State University, is working with Dr. Kyeong-Ok “KC” Chang, a virologist at Kansas State University's College of Veterinary Medicine; Dr. Yunjeong Kim, a veterinary virologist at Kansas State; Dr. Stanley Perlman, professor of microbiology and immunology from the University of Iowa; and Dr. Scott Lovell, a structural biologist at the University of Kansas. Chang is the principal investigator. On Aug. 30, the NIH announced the award for the project, which aims to complete development of a drug for preclinical studies, which will ultimately lead to a COVID-specific antiviral therapeutic treatment. It is led by principal investigator, Kyeong-Ok “KC” Chang, a virologist at Kansas State’s College of Veterinary Medicine. “We have identified a series of compounds that are effective in an animal model of SARS-COV-2 infection, working in collaboration with research groups at KSU, KU and the University of Iowa,” Groutas said. “A drug candidate is being advanced along the development pipeline by CoCrystal Pharma as a COVID-19 parenteral therapeutic.” The group has been working on antiviral drug development against both human and animal coronaviruses for more than a decade, focusing on protease inhibitors. Earlier this year, they published new findings on SARS-CoV-2 treatment options. Therapeutic treatments are different than vaccines in that they help people who have contracted the virus, whereas vaccines aim to prevent people from getting sick. “The new NIH grant will allow us to continue our work on the discovery and development of new drugs that can be deployed against SARS-CoV-2 infection, including drugs that are effective when administered orally,” Groutas said. Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry The Wichita State Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry strives to provide an inclusive, quality educational experience for students across all disciplines at WSU. This mission includes applied learning experiences relevant to regional and national needs. Learn more about the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry Read more stories like this Related Stories computer science Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters Talent Pipeline NIAR WERX announces MRO program expansion with Erickson Precision Ventures Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Alia Michaelis Aviation As passengers return, airline performance dips in Airline Quality Ratings 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©