Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Graduate School Menu Search TTU Graduate School Admissions New Student Information I've been admitted – now what? Now that you are a new graduate student at Texas Tech! The Graduate School at Texas Tech University is proud to welcome you into our select group of scholars! Listed below is information that will help you as you begin your journey with us. Requirement for Submitting Official Documents All documents that were submitted with a student's application are considered unofficial, even if the student uploaded a copy of an official transcript to their application portal. Once admitted, all students are required to submit the following by the twelfth (12th) class day of the term to which they were admitted: Official transcripts from all degree-granting universities or institutions, as well as any institution(s) where post-bachelor credit was received Official test scores (GRE, GMAT, TOEFL, IELTS, Duolingo, etc.) sent directly from the testing agency If the student received a degree or degrees from a foreign university or institution, they are required to submit their official diplomas or degree certificates in addition to their official transcripts How to Submit Official Documents Official documents can be provided in the following ways: Mailed using the below address based on the method of shipment you use. This can be from you or the institution. Electronically directly from the institution if available-see below for options Brought in to our office directly by you. Mailing Official Documents Please use the addresses listed below for whatever method of shipment you chose to send your materials: Physical Mailing Address (Express Mail Only) Texas Tech University Office of Graduate Admissions 2625 Memorial Circle Administration 328 Lubbock, TX 79409-1030 Postal Mailing Address (US Postal Service regular airmail) Texas Tech University Office of Graduate Admissions Box 41030 Lubbock, TX 79409-1030 Sending Electronic Transcripts For institutions using a secure electronic transcript delivery service (such as the National Student Clearinghouse, e-Scrip Safe, or Parchment), please make sure that those are sent to graduate.admissions@ttu.edu rather than your prospective department. Several US institutions offer electronic delivery of official transcripts. If your institution offers such a service, we encourage you to use it, as electronic transcripts typically arrive much sooner than those sent via regular airmail. For schools that use ANSI/ASC X12-formatted electronic transcripts, you should only have to indicate that you wish to send your transcripts to Texas Tech University; these types of transcripts are delivered directly to the TTU Registrar's office and uploaded into your file in our secure digital filing system. Submitting Official Documents in Person If you come in-person to the Graduate School Office to provide your official documents to remove a hold, there will be a sign instructing you to complete a form, clip your original documents to the form, and place both inside a provided envelope. We will notify you within 2 weeks when you can come to pick up your documents. Online Students - Submitting Official Documents If you are a distance student, you may not be able to provide these official documents in person or have official copies sent to our office. If not, you have two options: 1. Send your original transcripts/diplomas (and translations, if needed) to us via EXPRESS MAIL. Express mail delivery is recommended because it allows you to track your package. If you opt to mail your official documents to us and want us to return them to you, you must provide a PRE-PAID return label bought at your expense. You may only ship your official documents to the Graduate School through FedEx, UPS, USPS Priority, or DHL. In addition to the return label and your official documents, you must also include a letter in the packet which states that these are the original documents and ask us to make an exact copy for our files and return the originals to you when we are done. Texas Tech Graduate School WILL NOT be responsible for paying for shipping official documents to and from the student. OR (Second option for International credentials ONLY) 2. Many, but not all, EducationUSA advising centers offer credential verification services. The advising center must provide a Standard or a Comprehensive level of service. If a center close to you offers such a service, you are welcome to use it. You would need to have the original language/translation stamped for the transcript and diploma and have a letter or memo attached to it from EducationUSA to meet our "Official" requirement. Obtaining Official Translations If your transcripts and degree certificates or diplomas are not in English, you are required to submit an official English translation in addition to your documents in the original language. Notary-signed copies are not considered official translations. If you need to obtain official translations, here are some options: RushTranslate Certified Translation Services -- Certified Translations Only ImmiTranslate USCIS Certified Translations -- USCIS Certified Translations Only DayTranslations -- USCIS Certified Translations Only Tomedes Translations -- USCIS Translations Only If you wish to use your own translator, they must be a member of the American Translators Association. Immunization Requirements Every student must meet the university's immunization requirements before they will be able to enroll in classes. For more information on the immunization requirements, please visit the Immunization Requirements for New Students page on the Student Health Service website. The following ways you can submit your immunization records to Student Health Services. Submit your records online By Fax | 806.743.2122 By Mail | Student Wellness Center 1003 Flint Ave. Lubbock, TX 79409 In Person at the Student Wellness Center 1003 Flint Ave. Lubbock, TX 79409 PLEASE NOTE: WRITE YOUR NAME, TEXAS TECH "R" NUMBER, DATE OF BIRTH AND THE SEMESTER YOU ARE ENTERING TEXAS TECH (eg FALL 2020) ON YOUR SHOT RECORD BEFORE SUBMITTING IT. Registration Visit with your advisor to determine what courses to take; for your advisor contact information click here. Course schedules are available in the Raiderlink portal: http://portal.texastech.edu on the "MyTech" tab. Tuition & Fee Payment Responsibility Your tuition bill will be available in Raiderlink after you register for classes and your bill has been generated by Student Business Services. The preferred method of payment is eBill, and you can pay with an electronic bank transfer, credit card, or debit card through eBill. International students can also make payments through peerTransfer. Visit the Student Business Services website for more information. FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR ALL STUDENTS All students should be prepared financially to cover any billed expenses. Please note that tuition, fees, living expenses, and insurance costs change from year to year. If you have received an assistantship or a GPTI, the monthly payment will NOT happen right away. You will need to communicate with your department regarding the timing of your monthly income. You will be responsible for payment of your tuition and fees after you register for your classes. We encourage ALL STUDENTS to sign up for the Emergency Payment Plan through Student Business Services once they have registered for classes. This allows you to pay your billed expenses in specified increments, which helps especially if you are waiting for any awarded funding to be applied. Payment of the required amount MUST BE PAID, or you will be dropped from your classes. Visit the Student Business Services website for Payment Plan and Paying Your Bill options. We also recommend you visit the Tuition Estimator on the Student Business Services website prior to each semester before you register for classes so you will be prepared for the possible costs. Please visit the Graduate School Funding Your Education web page for additional financial support options. Withdrawing from the University If you have already registered for classes and are not able to attend, you will need to officially withdraw from the university by completing the withdrawal form via the Registrar's Office. Information can be found by going to the Registrar's website and clicking on "Withdrawal Information" under the "Current Student" heading in the "Students" tab: http://www.depts.ttu.edu/registrar/. Depending on when you withdraw from the university, you may be responsible for a portion or all of your tuition & fee charges. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS RECEIVING I-20s Your I-20 reflects the estimated expenses for your first year ONLY and is based on 18 credit hours (9 hours for each long term). The actual amount of your expenses may be higher or lower than the amount on your I-20. The amount will depend on the specific courses you take and the number of credit hours you register for each term. If you have received an assistantship or a GPTI, the monthly payment will NOT happen right away. You will need to communicate with your department regarding the timing of your monthly income. You will be responsible for payment of your tuition and fees after you register for your classes. It is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED you bring enough money with you to cover this cost. If you have received enough funding to cover all of your expenses on the I-20, even though you did not need to provide proof of financial support, the monthly payment from your assistantship or other employment will NOT happen right away. Student Identification Card Once you are registered for classes, you can get your student identification card at the University ID Office, located in the Student Union Building in Room 103. Housing University Student Housing has The West Village, apartment-style residence hall offering one-bedroom, two-bedroom, and four-bedroom units. Students over 21 years of age may live in West Village B (West Village Graduate), and students of sophomore or higher classification may live in West Village A (West Village Upperclass). Amenities include washers and dryers in the one-bedroom and two-bedroom apartments, and limitless laundry lounges with free WiFi for the four-bedroom apartments.<!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Other off-campus housing information may be found at http://www.lubbockhospitality.net/apartments or at http://www.lubbockapartments.com. Financial Aid/Scholarships Domestic graduate students in degree-seeking programs may be eligible for federal/state financial aid. Please contact the Student Financial Aid office, located in West Hall Room 310, for more information. They may be reached by telephone at (806) 742-3681, and their website is located here: www.financialaid.ttu.edu. The Graduate School awards several scholarships and fellowships. Applications are available online here. Additionally, we encourage you to contact your academic department for information about teaching/research assistantships and scholarships if you have not already done so. Parking & Transportation If you plan to park on campus, you will need to purchase a parking permit from University Parking Services, located in the Administrative Support Center in Room 145. They may be reached by telephone at (806) 742-3811, and their website is located here: www.parking.ttu.edu. On-campus bus service is provided by Citibus, Lubbock's public bus system. These buses stop at several locations on both the university campus and Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center's campus. Additionally, students with valid student ID cards are able to ride Citibus off-campus for free. For additional information on Citibus services and routes, please call (806) 742-2000 or visit their website here: www.citibus.com. Graduate Center The Graduate Center is a facility dedicated to Texas Tech Graduate Students and Postdoctoral Fellows. The Graduate Center is host to numerous academic support services and facilities that include a computer lab, meeting space, quiet study areas, and a dining facility. Access the Graduate Center with your Texas Tech ID or the Mobile ID app on your Android or iOS device. Graduate Writing Center The Graduate Writing Center (GWC) is dedicated to developing graduate students' and postdoctoral fellows' writing and research skills. The GWC brings together scholars with disparate backgrounds, interests, and talents in order to foster the effective communication skills and spirit of intellectual inquiry that are central to graduate study. International Student Life The Texas Tech International Student Life unit plans activities for international students and coordinates with other offices on campus to provide services to all international students. See their web page for more information on their services, student organizations, student events and programs, FAQs, and more. International Students - Transferring In If you have been studying at another institution in the United States in F-1 status and plan to enroll at Texas Tech University, you will need to complete an F-1 school transfer with the Graduate School Office. After receiving admission to Texas Tech, you will complete the Incoming F-1 Transfer Form with your previous school. The school you are currently attending must release your SEVIS record to Texas Tech. Only then can we issue a transfer I-20 to you. Upon arrival in Lubbock, students must report to the International Student and Scholar Services office at the International Cultural Center. For directions, check the TTU Campus Map. Visit the Make An Appointment page to schedule a check-in with your international counselor. Failure to report to the ISSS Office may result in the termination of your SEVIS record. Students who will travel outside the United States for a short period of time before reporting to Texas Tech should discuss their plans with an International Student Counselor before making arrangements to leave the United States. If you do leave the country, you must re-enter using your Texas Tech I-20. Students who have completed a degree program at another school and have been authorized for Optional Practical Training (OPT) will need to provide a copy of their EAD card showing maintenance of continuous F-1 status. Keep in mind that your OPT employment authorization will end as of the SEVIS transfer release date. Questions about the transfer process should be directed to the following email: graduate.admissions.international@ttu.edu Questions about other matters related to student life (scholarships, housing, orientation, etc.) should be directed to the appropriate Texas Tech office. International Students - Transferring Out Transferring out from Texas Tech University to another university requires that we transfer your SEVIS record to your new institution. In order to do this, our office requires a formal letter of admission/acceptance letter from your new school as proof of your admission. You must also fill out the Graduate School SEVIS Release/Transfer Out Form and upload all the required documents and information. Currently Enrolled Graduate Student Information/Forms For important information and forms for currently enrolled graduate students, please visit the Graduate School's Enrollment Services website or select the Academic Progress tab on the TTU Grad School website. Helpful Contacts/Links Office of Graduate Admissions 328 Administration (806) 742-2787 | www.gradschool.ttu.edu | mailto:graduate.admissions@ttu.edu Student Business Services 163 Drane Hall | (806) 742-3272 | www.sbs.ttu.edu On-Campus Jobs Student Employment Job Search TTU Academic Calendar Academic Calendar TTU Campus Map/Virtual Tour www.ttu.edu/map www.youvisit.com/tour/ttu Lubbock City Map Lubbock Google Map Lubbock Chamber of Commerce 1500 Broadway, 6th Floor, Lubbock, TX 79401 | 806-747-5232 | www.lubbockchamber.com Lubbock City Guide www.lubbockhospitality.com Frequently Asked Questions for Admitted Students For answers to many frequently asked questions for new students, please visit the Graduate Admissions Help Center FAQ. We recommend utilizing the search bar with keywords to find the answers to your questions. Double TDouble T Apply HeartHeart Give Contact Contact UsContact Contact Us Contact Us Graduate School Like Graduate School on FacebookLike Graduate School on Facebook Follow Graduate School on twitterFollow Graduate School on twitter Subscribe to Graduate School on YouTubeSubscribe to Graduate School on YouTube Address Administration Building 328, Texas Tech University, 2625 Memorial Circle, Lubbock, TX 79409-1030 Phone 806.742.2787 Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University Graduate School About Graduate School About Back Office of the Dean Graduate School About Office of the Dean Back Leadership & Staff Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Dean's Advisory Council Graduate Council Graduate School About Back About Graduate Council Members Minutes Archive Initiatives/ Reports Graduate School About Back 18 Characteristics of Doctoral Programs Strategic Plan Year in Review Graduate Program Review Coalition of Next Generation Life Sciences Rankings Admissions Graduate School Admissions Back Prospective Students Graduate School Admissions Back How to Apply Apply Now Join Mailing List Admissions Information Graduate School Admissions Back Help Center & FAQ Residency Information Tuition & Fees Newly Admitted Students Graduate School Admissions Back Admitted Checklist New Graduate Student Orientation Admissions Team Graduate Programs Graduate School Graduate Programs Back All Graduate Programs Accelerated Bachelor to Master's Programs Graduate Certificates Interdisciplinary Degrees Graduate School Graduate Programs Back About Self-designed Programs Arid Land Studies Biotechnology Heritage and Museum Sciences, MA Interdisciplinary Master of Science - Energy Land-Use Planning, Management, and Design, Ph.D. Wind Science and Engineering, Ph.D. Professional Science Masters Graduate School Graduate Programs Back Program Overview Admission Requirements Application Process & Deadlines Contact Us Financial Support Graduate School Financial Support Back Funding Your Education Graduate School Financial Support Back About Financial Aid Assistantships Tuition & Fees Student Employment Office of Graduate & Postdoctoral Fellowships Graduate School Financial Support Back About Staff & Contact Information Graduate School Fellowships & Assistantships Graduate School Financial Support Back About Recruitment Opportunities General Fellowships Doctoral Fellowships Student Requirements External Fellowships & Grants Graduate School Financial Support Back About Resources Search For Opportunities Submit & Followup Student Support/Recognition Graduate School Financial Support Back Student Travel Graduate Student Research Support Awards Raider Relief Fund Academic Progress Graduate School Academic Progress Back About & Contact Current Students Graduate School Academic Progress Back Responsible Academic Conduct Training Doctoral Students Master's Thesis Students Master's Non-Thesis Students Non-Degree Students Current Student Links Thesis & Dissertation Graduate School Academic Progress Back What You Need To Know Format Defend & Submit Your Document Thesis & Dissertation Forms ETD Checklist Graduation Deadlines Graduate School Academic Progress Back Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Commencement Information Student Services Graduate School Academic Progress Back Forms & Resources Graduate Center Graduate Writing Center Career Services Professional Development Graduate School Professional Development Back Professional Development Graduate School Professional Development Back About Graduate Center Graduate Writing Center Groundwork Program TEACH Program Workshops & Training Career Services Distance Education Resources The Versatile Ph.D. Alumni & Friends Graduate School Back Alumni & Friends Graduate School Back Giving Priorities Career Services Stay Connected Contact Us Student Spotlight Graduate School Student Spotlight Back Student Appreciation Alumni Newsletter Graduate School Back Summer 2021 Alumni Survey Graduate School Back Spring 2021 Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index May 19, 2022