Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Creative Inquiry The Clemson University Beckman Scholars Program In 2019, Clemson University was selected by the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation as one of 13 institutions in the United States to receive a three-year Beckman Scholars Program Award. The program offers an intense and prolonged immersion in research to students in six departments under the guidance of one of fifteen faculty mentors in the College of Science and the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences. The program has supported six exceptional undergraduate researchers over the course of three years, 2019 to 2023. Each Scholar received funding from the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation for 15 months of laboratory research (two summers and the intervening academic year). Two Beckman Scholars were selected in 2019: Shaoni Dasgupta, working with Dr. Kerry Smith and Nathan Matzko, working with Dr. Michael Sehorn, both in the department of Genetics and Biochemistry. Shaoni and Nathan and their advisors are profiled in this video. Shaoni was named as a Goldwater Scholarship recipient in 2020. Three new Beckman Scholars were selected in 2020 : Luke Broughton, working with Dr. Julia Brumaghim in the department of Chemistry; Lauren Davis, working with Dr. Melinda Harman in the department of Bioengineering; and Hayden Tharpe, working with Dr. Mark Blenner. Lauren is profiled in these videos on YouTube and Instagram. Hayden is profiled in these videos on YouTube and Instagram One Beckman Scholar was selected in 2021: Arabella Hunter will begin research in May 2021 with Dr. O. Thompson Mefford in the department of Materials Science and Engineering. The Clemson Beckman Scholars is currently not accepting new applications. For more information, please contact: Clemson University Beckman Scholars Program: Director, Dr. Barbara Speziale, bjspz@clemson.edu Administrative Assistant, Lindsay Hobbs, lvhobbs@clemson.edu Home Students Faculty Grad Students Summer CI + UR Corporate CI Clemson COVID Challenge About CI Opportunities & Events Bradley Award Carr Family Endowment Mentor Forum FOCI Poster Forum Services Student Opportunity Center Clemson Student Research Forum Beckman Scholars Program CI + UR Seminar Series Related Links Current Projects Decipher Magazine Contact Us Watt Family Innovation Center Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram