Skip to content Cornell University Search Close Navigation Search Search Sustainability Stories AI enables strategic hydropower planning across Amazon basin Carbon-coated nickel enables fuel cell free of precious metals Heat stress for cattle may cost billions by century’s end Virtual reality farm tour expands access to urban agriculture Cornell is a global leader in sustainability and climate change research, teaching and engagement. Our campuses are living laboratories for developing, testing and implementing solutions that address these most challenging issues. Cornell earns third platinum sustainability rating For three years in a row, Cornell has earned a platinum sustainability rating—the top status—from the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE), the international group that tracks environmental stewardship for more than 1,000 college campuses. Commitment to Sustainability 97% of departments are engaged in sustainability-focused research 4,500 tons of campus food waste are composted each year 28 Green Buildings on Campus 83% of students use sustainable transportation to commute to and across campus 40+ Student-founded sustainability clubs 87 majors, minors, and concentrations focused on sustainability #1 Ivy League institution in sustainability ratings 35% More than 35% reduction in carbon emissions from the 2008 baseline Research and engagement Cornell’s UN climate author warns of ‘rapidly closing window’ In a global cautionary tale, the UN’s IPCC has a new climate change report written by Cornell’s Rachel Bezner Kerr and 270 others, to pull our planet from dire environmental ruin. AI tool could help plan NYS’s transition to clean electrical power Cornell engineers have developed a new tool by combining machine learning and optimization modeling to provide hour-by-hour analysis of New York’s energy needs. New 3D body-mapping tech helps consumers, the environment The technology, developed in the Department of Human Centered Design, aims to improve the fit and design of clothing and increase the sustainability of online shopping. Engineers propose greener recycling for medical PPE waste Forget incineration or landfills. To resolve the increasing, never-ending waste stream of medical PPE as a result of the pandemic, Cornell engineers suggest recycling via pyrolysis. Skip experts Thought Leaders in Sustainability RENEWABLE ENERGY Jefferson Tester studies sustainable energy systems, with a focus on geothermal and biomass energy research. Learn more CONSERVATION OUTREACH Amanda Rodewald works to generate, apply and communicate science that advances ecological understanding. Learn more SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS John Tobin is an expert on environmental and energy economics and corporate sustainability. Learn more CITY & REGIONAL PLANNING Mildred Warner is an expert on how to promote environmental sustainability at the local level. Learn more SYSTEMS ENGINEERING Fengqi You focuses on developing models and tools for smart manufacturing, digital agriculture, energy systems and sustainability. Learn more MARINE ECOLOGY Drew Harvell studies the sustainability of marine ecosystems and the impacts of climate and ocean change. Learn more ENERGY AND THE ENVIRONMENT Max Zhang studies sustainable energy systems and the effects of nanoparticle pollution on air quality and climate change. Learn more WILDLIFE HEALTH AND POLICY Steven Osofsky directs the Wildlife Health Cornell Center of Excellence, which takes an interdisciplinary approach to wildlife health. Learn more Earth and Atmospheric Science Natalie Mahowald examines feedbacks in the earth system that impact climate change, such as desert dust and the carbon cycle. Learn more For more thought leaders in sustainability, contact: Office of Media Relations Our campuses are living laboratories for sustainability and climate change research. Centers and Institutes Center for Sustainable Global Enterprise Community and Rural Development Institute Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability Cornell Center for Social Sciences Cornell Cooperative Extension Cornell Energy Systems Institute Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies New York Climate Change Science Clearinghouse Northeast Regional Climate Center Become Engaged Building Energy Dashboard Green Your Event Green Your Office or Lab Green Teams Staff Sustainability Champions Student Green Guide Sustainability Clubs Sustainability Courses Sustainability Events Sustainable Campus Website Sustainable Cornell Council Continue Exploring Attend events View sustainability events on campus Read stories Explore sustainability on the Chronicle Watch videos View videos on CornellCast If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, Contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.