Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU People Funding Events Get Help Site Search About Metrics Roadmaps News Become an Affiliate Connect with Us Job Opportunities Contact Programs & Products Incubation Scientific Programs Product Development Research Resources Research Computing Data Science Services Training & Workshops IQSS Computer Labs Client Support Services Sponsored Research Services Extraordinary Claims, Extraordinary Evidence Peer Pre-Review Undergraduate Research Scholars Our Impact Search Solving society’s greatest challenges through bold and collaborative social science Learn how we do it Registration Open for the 8th Annual Dataverse Community Meeting The Dataverse Team at the Institute for Quantitative Social Science is excited to announce the 2022 Dataverse Community Meeting, taking place virtually from June 14-16. The Dataverse community is invested in following ethical data principles. We feel it is an opportune time to progress Indigenous Data Sovereignty within the community and focus on the emergence of the CARE principles for Indigenous Data Governance. Read more about the Dataverse Community Meeting Harvard Climate Justice Design Fellowship Announces Inaugural Fellows Cohort The Harvard Climate Justice Design Fellowship has selected its inaugural cohort of fellows, a remarkable group of seven leaders in environmental justice advocacy, organizing, and law from throughout the United States. Harvard’s Climate Justice Design Fellows will each pursue a project that generates data-oriented tools to support their own environmental justice advocacy, research, service, or education work with their community. Climate Justice Design Fellowship program IQSS Welcomes Stefano Iacus, New Senior Research Scientist and Director of Data Science and Product Research Data scientist and statistician Dr. Stefano Iacus will join IQSS in the roles of Senior Research Scientist and Director of Data Science and Product Research. Iacus will serve as a key advisor and intellectual leader on our research agenda and the strategic direction for research software products and services. Read more about Stefano Research Resources Research Computing The Research Computing Evironment (RCE) offers you a centralized place in which to store your data and run your analysis on your own or in collaboration with other researchers. Learn more Research Computing Data Science Services Our team of PhD data science specialists provides research support to the Harvard community, offering both consultation and collaboration services for researchers. Learn more about Data Science Services Training & Workshops We offer specialized instruction to develop your software skills and broadening your knowledge on social science-related topics. Learn more about Training & Workshops IQSS Computer Labs The Labs offer access to workstations with a full array of statistical, GIS, and other commonly-used desktop applications. Learn more about IQSS Computer Labs Client Support Services We're here to help you with your software, hardware and all your technological needs including (but not limited to) computer, smartphone, tablet and printer issues . Learn more Sponsored Research Services We're dedicated to supporting social scientists' research by providing exceptional services throughout the lifecycle of a sponsored project. Learn more about Sponsored Research Services Our Impact Photo credit: Ken Banks, kiwanja.net Helping Treat Malaria in Sub-Saharan Africa Professor Caroline Buckee worked with the IQSS Data Science Services team to analyze cell phone data from 15 million individuals over the course of a year to track the spread of malaria. The data analysis detailed the movement of individuals through sub-Saharan Africa and beyond to track the spread of malaria and recognize the origin of malaria-carrying mosquitoes, which informs the individuals and organizations in Africa who can provide tools to prevent further spread of the disease. Read more about IQSS' impact Funding Opportunities For Faculty Undergraduate Research Scholars Program The IQSS Undergraduate Research Scholars program is an opportunity for Harvard College students to gain first-hand research experience working with faculty members all across the University. Read More about Undergraduate Research Scholars Program For Graduate Students Travel Grants Travel grants are available to IQSS graduate student affiliates and are meant to support travel to facilitate presentation at a professional conference relevant to their research. Read more about Travel Grants For Graduate Students Research Grants Harvard Graduate student affiliates may apply for funding to support ongoing or future research activities. Read more about graduate research grants View all funding opportunities Upcoming Events 2022 Jun 14 Dataverse Community Meeting Tue Jun 14 (All day) to Thu Jun 16 (All day) 2022 Jun 16 Politics and Computational Social Science (PaCSS) conference Thu Jun 16 (All day) to Sat Jun 18 (All day) Latest News Registration Open for the 8th Annual Dataverse Community Meeting May 27, 2022 The Dataverse Team at the Institute for Quantitative Social Science is excited to announce the 2022 Dataverse Community Meeting, taking place June 14–16, virtually. The Dataverse community is invested in following ethical data principles. We feel it is an opportune time to progress Indigenous Data Sovereignty within the community and focus on the emergence of the CARE principles for Indigenous Data Governance... Read more about Registration Open for the 8th Annual Dataverse Community Meeting Harvard Climate Justice Design Fellowship Announces Inaugural Fellows Cohort May 16, 2022 The Harvard Climate Justice Design Fellowship has selected its inaugural cohort of fellows, a remarkable group of seven leaders in environmental justice advocacy, organizing, and law from throughout the United States... Read more about Harvard Climate Justice Design Fellowship Announces Inaugural Fellows Cohort IQSS Welcomes Dr. Stefano Iacus as New Senior Research Scientist and Director of Data Science and Product Research May 9, 2022 Data scientist and statistician Dr. Stefano Iacus will join the Institute for Quantitative Social Science in the roles of Senior Research Scientist and Director of Data Science and Product Research. Iacus will serve as a key advisor and intellectual leader on the Institute’s research agenda... Read more about IQSS Welcomes Dr. Stefano Iacus as New Senior Research Scientist and Director of Data Science and Product Research All news Become an Affiliate IQSS welcomes requests from scholars to become affiliated with our institution. Affiliation allows graduate students and faculty to apply for funding or access IQSS-based services, such as Sponsored Research Services. Learn about how to become an affiliate Institute for Quantitative Social Science 1737 Cambridge Street CGIS Knafel Building, Room K350 Cambridge, MA 02138 Phone: 617-496-2450 Email: help@iq.harvard.edu About Metrics Roadmaps News Become an Affiliiate Connect with Us Job Opportunities Contact For Assistance Get Help Programs & Products Incubation Scientific Programs Product Development Learn More People Funding Events News Research Resources Research Computing Data Science Services Training & Workshops IQSS Computer Labs Client Support Services Sponsored Research Services Our Impact IQSS Supporters b80e00feb9581d080cf21481e3ae267d fd88e8821a7292374fa97567160ce79d 9213fe68871fba0e5a76964151c63a58 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement