Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts DAAP grad Lee Wilger lands job at Relativity Textiles in Chicago, after co-op there Cooperative education allows students to explore their options, can lead to employment By Angela Koenig Email AngelaEmail Angela 513-558-4625 May 26, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like Erin Minckley is a successful artist, author and business owner in her own right, but still finds time to extend herself and her business acumen to fine arts students through the University of Cincinnati’s co-op program. Erin Minckley, owner/operator of Relativity Textiles in Chicago. Photo/provided by Minckley. “I was once an art student too and wish I would have had a similar experience that offered insight into the real world,” says Minckley, owner of Relativity Textiles, a brick-and-mortar storefront and gallery in Chicago. At the company, which she founded in 2015, Minckley creates luxury wallpaper designs based on her drawings and hand-painted artworks. In addition to the store, she has an e-commerce business and is the author of “Artists Who Thrive,” a guidebook for budding artists that she wrote during the pandemic to help artists succeed. And she walks that talk, by offering UC fine arts students in UC’s College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning a four-month cooperative education experience at her Chicago store. “They get to see it all, the entire process…the boring stuff and the fun designing stuff,” Minckley says of having students do everything from setting up window displays to packing and shipping orders. In May 2022, Lee Wilger graduated with a bachelor's degree in fine arts from the UC College of Design, Architecture, Art and Planning. Photo/Provided/Wilger. “I didn’t expect myself to be interested in the business side of art, but it was really interesting and fun and gave me more of the structure that I wanted in a job,” says Lee Wilger, one of five UC co-op students Minckley has mentored since 2018. Wilger, who graduated in spring 2022 with a bachelor’s degree in fine arts and sculpture, enjoyed the experience so much that she landed a job at her co-op, Relativity Textiles, where she starts in July. This co-op, Wilger says, was her favorite of the three that she needed to complete her degree. The others were as an instructor in a ceramics studio and the creative director at a specialty bakery. “I wanted to have as many experiences as possible, and co-op gives you the leeway to see what opportunities are out there and where you can go,” says Wilger, who heard about the co-op from classmate Bailey Hess (DAAP ’22). Relativity Textiles was the third co-op experience for Hess, who first spent time co-oping at an artist’s studio in Hawaii and then at an art consultancy in Cincinnati. Hess describes Minckley as “a really inspiring mentor” who taught her that you don’t just automatically become successful: “You have to do the work.” And that work isn’t always on-site. Students accompany Minckley to client meetings, site visits and professional events. “It’s so valuable to have that real-world experience and make those connections in the business,” says Minckley, adding, “I just love [UC] and what they are doing with co-op. I hope that when the students leave here, they say: ‘That was pretty easy, I can do that.’” Beyond the classroom UC invented cooperative education more than 100 years ago, and we continue to innovate all aspects of experience-based learning, including internships, service learning, virtual co-ops, community projects and industry partnerships. Learn more. Tags Student Experience Alumni Association Next Lives Here Experience-based Learning College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Arts & Culture Related Stories Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Ohio recognizes UC's efforts to welcome veterans May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati this week was among the first universities to be recognized by Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine for its efforts to support students with military backgrounds. Who wants to go for a ride? May 27, 2022 When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top