Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityOffice of Research and Sponsored Programs Office of Research and Sponsored Programs Project Lifecycle Pre-Award Phase Project Idea Finding Funding Developing a Proposal Award Phase Setting up an Award Post Award Phase Managing an Award Award Closeout Agreements and Negotiations Resources Frequently Requested Information Kuali Grants Management System ORSP Reports Tools, Templates and Forms Training and Event Opportunities Policies and Guidance Export Controls Hiring Using Grant Funds Intellectual Property Policy Promoting Objectivity in Research/Financial Conflict of Interest Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Tuition Scholarship Credit Policy University Policies and Procedures About Us ORSP Staff ORSP Values and Services Partner Offices Welcome to the Office of Research and Sponsored Programs The Office of Research and Sponsored Programs is Marquette University's central point of coordination for sponsored projects and the legally authorized representative for grants, contracts and assurances. ORSP represents the sum of Marquette's experience with extramural sponsors and partners over time. ORSP helps faculty and staff build bridges between Marquette and extramural sponsors and other institutions to advance the university's mission, and it fosters excellence in sponsored projects by promoting best practices, policies and procedures that ensure consistency and efficiency in our transactions with sponsors and partners. UPDATES National Institutes of Health (NIH) New requirements for NIH Biosketch, Other Support, eRA Commons IDs Applications submitted for deadlines on or after January 25, 2022: ° Must follow the new Biosketch format. Failure to do so may cause NIH to withdraw your application from consideration. See the chart below for some highlights and NOT-OD-21-073 for further details. ° All Key Personnel need to to have an eRA Commons username. See NOT-OD-21-109 for full details. ° Also note that Forms G go into effect at the same time. The biosketch changes are as follows: Format Page Changes Biosketch Format Page The updated format pages and instructions for the Biosketch can be found here. Section B ‘Positions and Honors’ has been renamed ‘Positions, Scientific Appointments, and Honors’. For the Biosketch, Section D. has been removed. As applicable, all applicants may include details on ongoing and completed research projects from the past three years that they want to draw attention to within the personal statement, Section A. Other Support Format Page The updated format pages and instructions for Other Support can be found here. The format page has been re-organized to separate funded projects from in-kind contributions. Signature block added, for Program Director/Principal Investigator or Other Senior/Key Personnel to certify the accuracy of the information submitted. Each PD/PI or senior/key personnel must electronically sign their respective Other Support form as a PDF prior to submission. Click here for additional ORSP information on submitting a grant to NIH. National Science Foundation (NSF) Beginning June 1st, 2021 – all NSF proposals submitted on or after that date will use Research.gov, which is NSF’s new submission system to replace Fastlane. Click here for additional information on NSF COVID-19 Funding Opportunities - Funding Search (Pivot) - NIH Funding Opportunities - NSF Funding Information Important Links KUALI TRAINING AND EVENT OPPORTUNITIES Frequently Requested Information ORSP’s standard business hours are weekdays from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. All proposals need to be approved and submitted during these times. PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact sherrie.dorff@marquette.edu. Location Marquette University Holthusen Hall, 341 1324 West Wisconsin Avenue Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (414) 288-7200 Key Resources Campus contacts Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©