Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Faculty/Staff Resources Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Prospective Students Current Students Research About Partner News Faculty and Staff Resources Welcome, faculty and staff! As Clemson works toward becoming a top-20 public university through its Clemson Forward strategic plan, each member of the University plays an important role. Within the College of Science, our goal is to utilize this plan by employing individuals who aspire to enhance the academic, research and community environment. ScienceForward ScienceForward, aligned with ClemsonForward, will act as a roadmap to guide our strategic priorities and hold us accountable to our aspirations. We will focus on academic, faculty and inclusive excellence, seeking high impact and transformational experiences. The ScienceForward team was built to reflect the unique perspectives and experiences of the College of Science itself. They are charged with collecting insights and channeling our talents into a plan that will enhance our ability to understand the natural world. Opportunities will be made available for students, faculty, staff and alumni to share their thoughts and to stay engaged throughout the process. It is an exciting time to be at Clemson as we collectively advance ScienceForward! For Faculty and Staff Some faculty and staff resources are on the Science Faculty and Resources Internal Resources Page. A password is required to access this page and its contents. Contents here include: ScienceFORWARD document (PDF) for faculty and staff VIDEO: Watch the Dean’s 2021 Board of Trustees Presentation to Friends and Supporters ORGANIZATION CHARTS: Find org charts for the College and the business office support team Quick Resource Links Expand the accordions below to access quick links to commonly used resources. + Academic Resources ⇣ Academic Continuity and eLearning Academic Year at a Glance (PDF) Faculty Bylaws (PDF) Faculty Consulting Policy Faculty Consulting Submission Form — NOTE: To submit a consulting form, log in with your username and password. Select the “Conflict of Interest” tab on the left, followed by “create or update disclosure.” On the next page, select the option to “Edit/Submit Consulting.” Clemson University Faculty and Staff Website Faculty Senate Grant Submissions (OSP) Post-Award Services Promotion, Tenure and Faculty Evaluation Sabbatical Guidelines Sabbatical Form (PDF) Staff Senate University Committees + Alumni and Donor/Giving Resources ⇣ Circle of Gratitude Website Clemson Forever (Annual Giving) CUF Interactive Gift Report + Building Access ⇣ Access for Non-Research Purposes To request permission for non-research purposes, such as entering office spaces, please complete the Science Employee Building Access Request (non-research access) form. IMPORTANT: When logging in to the form, please enter your Clemson.edu credentials, not a phone number, personal Microsoft account, g.clemson or other username. Access to Conduct Research For access to buildings for research purposes, please request approval through your PI or chair/director, who will work with the associate dean of discovery to gain permission through Clemson University's vice president of research. + General Business Resources ⇣ Budget Documents and Forms Budget Office Business Systems BuyWays Portal CU Cash and Treasury Services Form 100 CU and CUF Purchasing Card (P-Card) Post-Award Services Procurement SCIENCE Revenue Distribution (PDF, login required) + Hazardous Weather Policies ⇣ Clemson Weather and Emergency policy is as follows: Plan A: Report to work as soon as it is safe to travel. (Everyone must take responsibility for determining the safety of his or her personal travel arrangements.) Any time missed must be satisfied with accrued annual or compensatory leave or leave without pay. Under Plan A, you may not make up the time later. Plan B: The governor has declared a weather emergency, and the University is closed. (However, all essential services will be maintained, and essential employees will report to work.) You may use accrued annual or compensatory leave, take leave without pay, or arrange with your supervisor to make up the time at a future date. For additional information, please visit the CU Safety site or view the Clemson Hazardous Weather Procedure webpage. You may also sign up for CU Safe text alerts. + Human Resources ⇣ Human Resources Website Access and Equity HR Job Aids for HR Processes HR Resource Library Kronos Timekeeping Information Kronos Training and Job Aids Kronos Timekeeping Login Payroll Information — Includes general information (new hires, direct deposit, W-4); information for HR and payroll professionals (forms and procedures); information for employees (timesheets, deductions, W-2). Policy and Procedure Manual Tiger Talent + Remote Work Resources ⇣ CCIT Working Remotely Remote Work Resources from CBSHS SCIENCE Resources for Working Remotely – Additional Guidance (PDF in Box, login required) + Research-Related Resources ⇣ Catalyst Awards (formerly SRR – Fund 19) Research Subject Incentive Information + Travel Resources ⇣ Clemson University Travel Policy and Resources Domestic Travel Form International Travel Form College Support Teams Expand the accordions below to access quick links to commonly used resources. + Accounts Payable and Receivable ⇣ How to Reach Us ➥ Our team If you have any questions, please contact your AP&R accountant: BioSci — Jade Jones: EJJ2@clemson.edu Genetics and Biochemistry — Elizabeth Brown: emb5@clemson.edu Chemistry — Janice Brucke: natnat@clemson.edu SMSS — Janice Brucke: natnat@clemson.edu P&A — Lori Rholetter: callie@clemson.edu Center for Human Genetics — Elizabeth Brown: emb5@clemson.edu Dean’s Office — Lori Rholetter: callie@clemson.edu Science Outreach Center — Lori Rholetter: callie@clemson.edu EPIC — Eukaryotic Pathogens Innovation Center — Elizabeth Brown: emb5@clemson.edu P-Card Documentation Detailed receipts/invoices are still required. Documentation should be submitted via email containing approval, purpose of the purchase, and account information. One of the following special p-card email accounts should be used by your department. Contact your p-card liaison/AP&R accountant if you have questions about submitting your p-card documentation: BioSci — pcard0314@clemson.edu Chemistry — pcard0973@clemson.edu G&B — pcard0318@clemson.edu P&A — pcard0978@clemson.edu SMSS — pcard0975@clemson.edu CHG — pcard0340@clemson.edu Dean’s Office — pcard0801@clemson.edu Documentation for Reimbursement This must be submitted electronically to your AP&R Accountant. Electronically approved forms, signed and scanned forms, and receipts should be submitted via email. If you do not have an electronic copy of your documentation and you don’t have access to a scanner, consider using Adobe Scan, which you can download on the Remote Work Resources page. This software will enable you to take a photograph and save it as a PDF. You can then submit the PDF via email. You also can take a photograph with your phone and send it via email. Documentation for reimbursement must include detailed receipts, which include: Line item descriptions. Subtotal. Taxes. Total. Tip, if for a meal (up to 20 percent). + Administration ⇣ How to Reach Us ➥ Our team The Dean’s Office is staffed remotely during normal business hours. Reach us via email or Webex Teams. General inquiries: 864-656-3015 or science@clemson.edu Dean Young: 864-656-3642 or sciencedean@clemson.edu + Communications and Marketing ⇣ How to Reach Us ➥ Our team Continue to use our project request form and include detailed information. Available Services Assist with communications to media, if applicable. Write and/or edit COVID19-related communications. Update and post on our website. Assist with listserv emails. Post on social media. Conduct phone interviews and write stories. Access file photographs. Design print products; also, we can order and coordinate printing via our vendors. Design and order promotional materials. + Financial Analysis and Planning ⇣ How to Reach Us ➥ Our team Contact us by email or Webex Teams: BioSci — Andrea Sloan Thornal: thornal@clemson.edu G&B — Joanne Marcou: jmarcou@clemson.edu Chemistry — Leslee Dosier: ldosier@clemson.edu SMSS — David Reynolds: reynd@clemson.edu P&A — David Reynolds: reynd@clemson.edu CHG — Joanne Marcou: jmarcou@clemson.edu Dean’s Office — Joanne Marcou: jmarcou@clemson.edu EPIC — Joanne Marcou: jmarcou@clemson.edu SOC — Andrea Sloan Thornal: thornal@clemson.edu Available Services Budget planning. Running payroll and expense reports. Reconciling the budget status report. Reviewing and clearing the error report. Entering IDOs and creating budget reports for advising and project cleanup. Conducting budget analysis and budget management support for department unit leaders. + IT & Operations Excellence ⇣ For Assistance ➥ Our team Please contact CCIT using any of the methods below. They will assist you or route your request to the appropriate team: https://ccit.clemson.edu/support/ ithelp@clemson.edu 864-656-3494 Please do not send direct emails and other communications to the Science IT Team about IT issues. This will slow down the process of getting you the help you need. Using the ticketing system will allow us to effectively support the entire college. Webex Teams Install Webex Teams on your laptop and smartphone. Sign in with your Clemson credentials. This will allow us to communicate with you directly in a manner that will most quickly and efficiently resolve your issue. Be prepared to use the VPN. Some troubleshooting methods only work with the VPN. Stay Alert Over the upcoming weeks, cybercrime will be at its peak. Do not click on any suspicious emails or links. Do not download unnecessary data from the internet to your machine (images, software, etc.). Stay vigilant to keep yourself safe and cut down on IT-related issues. Microsoft Outlook/Exchange users, use the Report Phishing button on suspicious emails. Be aware that the strain on cloud services will affect performance. Refer to these sites to check on service status and subscribe to automatic notifications on services most important to you: Clemson Univeristy system status Downdetector — real-time problem and outage monitoring for popular services Working Remotely These links have helpful information for working remotely: CCIT guidelines for working remotely: https://ccit.clemson.edu/working-remotely/ Remote Work Resources from CBSHS SCIENCE Resources for Working Remotely – Additional Guidance (PDF in Box) + OSP/Pre Award ⇣ How to Reach Us ➥ Our team Please visit our OSP: Submitting a Proposal/Pre Award webpage for more information regarding the pre-award office and process for submitting a proposal. For more information on how to contact us individually, please visit our team page; email is preferred. A number of helpful links can be found on our page as well. + Post Award ⇣ How to Reach Us ➥ Our team Email us directly (preferred) or call us (our office phones will forward to reach us remotely). Visit our college Post-Award page for reference, including our contact information. Other helpful links can be found in the RESOURCES section on our webpage, in the right sidebar. BuyWays Video Need information about using BuyWays? View the BuyWays Overview Video for Shoppers. Frequently Asked Questions Procurement Travel FAQ’s Research Resources FAQ’s Business Guidance: Package Deliveries, Shipping to Home, Internet Access and More LOCATION College of Science 118 Long Hall Clemson, SC 29634 ✉ science@clemson.edu  ☏ 864-656-3015 QUICK CONTACTS Liliana Gehring, Chief of Strategy and Operations Charles Allen, IT Services Lead Barbara Bass, Director of Business Operations Christal Douglas, OSP Support Manager Deborah Jensen, IT & Operations Excellence Manager Mikah Jones, Director of Finance Faculty/Staff Resources Administrative Team Branding Resources Committees Communications IT & Operations Excellence Room/Space Request Shared Financial Services Team Directory Departments Biological Sciences Chemistry Genetics and Biochemistry School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences Physics and Astronomy Centers and Institutes Clemson Center for Human Genetics Clemson Eukaryotic Pathogens Innovation Center Center for Excellence in Math and Science Education Clemson Nanomaterials Institute Life Sciences Outreach Center Statistics and Mathematics Consulting Center Give to the College Like Us on Facebook Copyright © 2019 Clemson University College of Science | 118 Long Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3015 | Email Us