Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Research People Connect News & Events Resources Research The School of Computing prides itself on groundbreaking research on developing new technologies and understanding how technology can better shape the world. World-class faculty, graduate, and undergraduate researchers collaborate with each other and across disciplines in the pursuit of discovery. Research News Freeman Receives NSF HCC Grant Published: Thursday August 19, 2021 Dr. Guo Freeman, Assistant Professor of Human-Centered Computing, receives a $399,785 HCC Small grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF). This three-year project investigates how people experience harassment in new and potentially disruptive ways in nuanced online social spaces to design novel and safer social technologies to protect them, promote trust among users, and mitigate emerging online risks. Professor Ge’s research lab won the Best Paper Overall Award at ICS’21 Published: Tuesday June 22, 2021 Professor Rong Ge and her Ph.D. students Thomas Randall and Tyler Allen have won the Best Paper Overall Award at the ACM premier International Conference on Supercomputing 2021. Professor Yang Storms SIGGRAPH 2021 Published: Monday June 14, 2021 Professor Yin Yang co-authors three SIGGRAPH papers that will appear in ACM's premier conference in graphics and interactive techniques, spanning topics of simulation contact, model reduction, and rendering. A fourth paper will also be presented, as an ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG) paper. Former Clemson Computing student Michael Payne promoted to Lead Data Engineer Published: Tuesday May 11, 2021 Michael Payne has been promoted to Lead Data Engineer on the Tickets Data Engineering team at Cirium. Michael will continue to be a contributor on the team but will take on additional responsibilities in people management and team organization. Michael holds a B.S. in Computer Science from the University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff, an M.S. in Computer Science from North Carolina A&T University. He was recruited into the Ph.D. program in Computer Science at Clemson in 2013, where he worked under the direction of Dr. Amy Apon. Playing this game helps to reduce bias in society Published: Friday April 02, 2021 Clemson Computing and Communication researchers aim to Reduce race and gender bias through diverse representation in videogames Clemson researchers have […] MORE NEWS SPOTLIGHT Sabarish Babu, Ph.D. Associate Professor ✉ sbabu@clemson.edu My research interests are broadly in the areas of Virtual Environments, 3D Human-Computer Interaction, Virtual Humans, and Embodied Agents. I co-direct the virtual environments group with research projects that include spatial perception in virtual environments and virtual reality-based training and education in the mechanical and medical domains. Research Areas of Research Labs & Groups Research Centers AIRISE Institute Data Lab CSAVI Copyright © Clemson University School of Computing | 100 McAdams Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 (864) 656-3444 | Email Us