Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Early Decision vs. Regular Decision HOME Admission Apply Early Decision vs. Regular Decision In This Section Admission Overview Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Early Decision I and II If Boston College is your unequivocal first choice, then we would urge you to consider applying through Early Decision. We expect that your academic credentials, extracurricular engagement, and personal qualities will fit the profile of currently enrolled Boston College students. Both Early Decision options are binding. If admitted through Early Decision to Boston College, you must immediately withdraw applications to other institutions and enroll at Boston College. You will be required to submit an Enrollment Confirmation Fee to Boston College within 10 days of receiving your admission offer. Early Decision I and II vary only in terms of the deadline to apply. For Early Decision I, you must apply by November 1 and will learn of our decision by December 15. For Early Decision II, you must apply by January 1 and will learn of our decision by February 15. Due to the binding nature of Early Decision, you are not permitted to apply to other binding Early Decision programs. You are permitted to apply to non-restrictive Early Action programs at other institutions. As an Early Decision applicant, in addition to submitting the Common Application and required credentials, you must complete and submit the Common Application Early Decision Agreement form. This will be signed by you, your parent/guardian, and your school counselor. Regular Decision If you do not have a first choice college at the time you submit your application and/or if you would like to make your college decision after considering multiple offers of admission and financial aid, we encourage you to apply through Regular Decision. Regular Decision is a non-binding admission process and the option used by most applicants to Boston College. If you apply through Regular Decision, you will learn of our decision by April 1. You will have until May 1 to make your decision and confirm your enrollment. Regular Decision applicants who wish to be considered for our full-tuition, merit-based scholarship through the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program must submit an application by the priority scholarship deadline of November 1. No separate application is required. Finalists will be notified of their status, along with an official offer of admission, by February 1. All other Regular Decision applicants will receive their admission decisions by April 1. If you submit your Regular Decision application early, but later decide that Boston College is your first-choice college, you may convert your application to Early Decision II. Please contact the admission office by January 4 to make this request. You will then need to submit the signed Common Application Early Decision Agreement form. Is there an advantage/benefit to applying Early Decision? Yes. Early Decision applicants are part of a much smaller pool of candidates. During the 2020-21 admission cycle, Boston College received 3,225 Early Decision applications (ED I and II combined). Thirty-nine percent of ED applicants were admitted, filling 48% of the Class of 2025. During Regular Decision, the remaining 52% of the class was filled from an applicant pool of nearly 37,000 applications. The admit rate for Regular Decision applicants was 17%. Because Early Decision attracts a small, but competitive pool of candidates, the acceptance rate is higher than at Regular Decision. Early Decision allows you to demonstrate your commitment to enroll at Boston College. It also enhances our ability to enroll students interested in the Jesuit, Catholic approach to education, personal growth, and service of others. What are the possible Early Decision outcomes? Should you elect to apply Early Decision to Boston College, you may expect one of three outcomes: Admit, Defer, or Deny. Highly competitive candidates not admitted through Early Decision will be deferred for additional consideration in our Regular Decision round. Candidates who would not be competitive in our Regular Decision process will be denied admission. This allows them to focus their time and effort on other options for college. What about financial aid? Boston College is need blind in the admission process and pledges to meet the full demonstrated need of every admitted student. We are committed to enrolling a student body with a wide range of socio-economic backgrounds. We take pride in making Boston College an affordable option for families, but urge you to use our net price calculators to determine your likelihood of qualifying for financial aid, and what kind of package you might expect to receive if admitted. If Boston College is unquestionably your first choice, and you have confidence in your family’s ability to meet the full cost of attendance with or without need-based financial aid, we urge you to use the Early Decision option. If you have used our net price calculators and have determined that Boston College is financially viable, it is likely that our financial aid award will meet your expectations. Students may only be released from their Early Decision commitment if, after a conversation with our financial aid office, financial factors preclude enrollment. Admitted Early Decision candidates will be fully considered for one of 18, full-tuition, merit-based scholarships through the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program. However, please be aware that competition is intense for these scholarships. Candidates whose families will depend on a merit-based scholarship to fund their college experience should not apply Early Decision. Committed to Affordability We’re dedicated to providing need-based financial assistance and helping students obtain a variety of aid to meet their full, demonstrated financial need. The Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program offers a four-year, full-tuition scholarship How do I apply for a Presidential Scholarship? Each year, Boston College awards 18 academically merit-based scholarships to incoming freshmen through the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program. Both Early Decision and Regular Decision candidates are eligible for Presidential Scholarship consideration as long as they meet the November 1 priority scholarship deadline. No additional application materials are required for this scholarship. The Presidential Scholarship is a four-year, full-tuition scholarship. If a student demonstrates need beyond tuition, as determined by Boston College's institutional analysis, this need would be met with additional scholarship funds. Finalists for the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program will be notified of their status in early January. These students will be invited to Boston College at our expense for interviews and evaluation in mid-February. They will be notified of final decisions shortly thereafter. Early Decision I Deadline: November 1 Early Decision I is a binding admission program for students who view Boston College as their top choice. Notification: By December 15 Early Decision applicants will be notified of their admission decision no later than December 15. Early Decision II Deadline: January 1 Early Decision II is a binding admission program for students who view Boston College as their top choice. Notification: By February 15 Early Decision applicants will be notified of their admission decision no later than February 15. Regular Decision Deadline: January 1 Regular Decision is a non-binding admission program and the majority of applicants apply through Regular Decision. Notification: By April 1 Regular Decision applicants will be notified of their admission decision no later than April 1. See yourself at BC? Plan your visit now. Visit Us Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College