Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Lyle Home Academics Academics Departments Advising Multidisciplinary Programs Distance Education Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Studies Research Research Research Opportunities Contact Us Centers & Institutes Centers & Institutes Hart Center Caruth Institute Hunt Institute Darwin Deason Institute Apply Now Apply Now Visit Lyle Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Resources FAQ's Connect with Us Alumni Alumni Lifelong Learning Alumni Program Support Lyle Industry Mentor Program Recruiting at Lyle Cox & Lyle Red Zone Tailgate on the Boulevard About Lyle About Lyle Our Namesake: Bobby B. Lyle Mission Statement Message from the Dean Dean's Office Faculty Directory 9 Things Every Lyle Student Should Know Job Opportunities Support Lyle Get in Touch ☰ Lyle Alumni Lyle Home Alumni Cox & Lyle Red Zone Tailgate on the Boulevard Cox & Lyle Red Zone Tailgate on the Boulevard Lyle alumni, students, parents and friends of the Lyle School of Engineering are welcome to join us this Fall at the Cox & Lyle Red Zone Tailgate on the Boulevard! The Cox & Lyle Red Zone is the premier pre-game tailgate option available on the famed SMU Boulevard. This high-end tailgate experience was built through a partnership with the Cox School of Business and the Lyle School of Engineering. The Cox & Lyle Red Zone Tailgate is held prior to every SMU home football game. Meet and talk with the Dean, faculty and other Lyle alumni. Complimentary food and beverages are available to those who register and beer and wine are available for purchase. Check back later this summer for more information and to register. The 2022 SMU Football schedule is below. Pony Up and see you this Fall on the Boulevard! 2022 SMU Football Schedule Alumni Lifelong Learning Alumni Program Support Lyle Industry Mentor Program Recruiting at Lyle Cox & Lyle Red Zone Tailgate on the Boulevard School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus