Request Information Apply Today Advanced Certificate in Bilingual/Bicultural Education Menu Announcements Why Teachers College? Overview and Courses Faculty Teachers College, Columbia University Request Information Apply Today Advanced Certificate in Bilingual/Bicultural Education Open Menu Announcements Why Teachers College? Overview and Courses Faculty Advanced Certificate in Bilingual/Bicultural Education Offered in-person and online Prepare to Educate The Bilingual/Bicultural Education Program is pleased to announce the Clinically Rich Intensive Teacher Institute in Bilingual Education Grant (CR-ITI-BE, 2019-2023) award from the New York State Education Department (NYSED) to support teacher candidates who already hold, or who are working toward getting an eligible base certification endorsed by NYSED to pursue the Bilingual Extension Certification in ALL languages in the newly launched Online Advanced Certificate in Bilingual/Bicultural Education Program (15 credits). This program will begin in Summer (mid-May) 2019. The grant will provide financial support for up to $4,500 (one-time tuition reimbursement) per applicant up to 20 applicants per year. Applicants are expected to register in the online courses in Summer (mid-May) 2019. Applicants who are awarded CR-ITI-BE grant must commit to teaching in the state of New York after completing the online program from Teachers College for at least two years. Aspiring French dual language and immersion teachers are encouraged to apply also for the FIT fellowship ($5000), which will help subsidize the cost of the Advanced Certificate program. Request Info Loading... Why an Advanced Certificate in Bilingual/Bicultural Education at TC? As the number of immigrant students and English Language Learners enrolled in schools nationwide continues to increase, the demand for teachers with bilingual extension certification is growing dramatically as well. Of the approximately 2.6 million public school students in New York State in 2016-2017, 8.8 percent were English Language or Multilingual Learners, with over 200 languages represented. (New York Basic Educational Data System) The Advanced Certificate in Bilingual/Bicultural Education from Teachers College, Columbia University trains educators to meet the diverse needs of these multilingual learners, with an emphasis on multiculturalism and the ways that students and educators bring their own unique backgrounds, experiences, and assets to the classroom. This 15-16 credit program is registered by New York State as a pathway toward the Bilingual Extension Certification. Upon completion of the Advanced Certificate, participants who pass the required New York Bilingual Education Assessment exam will be eligible for the Bilingual Extension. Taught by leaders in the field of bilingual and bicultural education, the program is offered on-campus at Teachers College, Columbia University in New York City and in a fully online format. The program is rigorous, but flexible to meet the needs of full-time teachers or students. Program Overview and Courses Overview The Advanced Certificate is designed for non-degree students who already have New York State teacher certification and wish to obtain the New York State Bilingual Extension, or currently enrolled students pursuing a master's degree in another Teachers College program (must already hold or be pursuing Initial Certification in that program). The program will: Review the historical and theoretical foundation framework that has shaped bilingual education policies, program models, and teaching and assessment practices. Examine the cultural influences of bilingual education settings, identifying salient theoretical issues related to culture and social organization as they pertain to the education of ethnolinguistic and minoritized children. Explore approaches to developing literacy in a second and native language in elementary and middle schools. Allow participants to take part in the real-world application of bilingual and bicultural classroom practices in all content areas, the teaching of an additional language (ESL or LOTE), and the development of bilingualism. Note: Interested educators with no eligible base certification endorsed by NYSED, or no Language Other Than English background are still encouraged to apply for the online Advanced Certificate program to complete one or more BBE courses (but will be ineligible to be partially funded by the CR-ITI-BE grant). Program Structure The Advanced Certificate in Bilingual/Bicultural Education is a non-degree program that is offered through a part-time course of study and may be completed in 13 months. The program is offered in in-person and online formats, and students may begin the program at any point in the year. Please review TC’s Academic Calendar for semester dates. Online Program Structure The online format enables students to participate in an interactive experience from their home base without having to travel to our campus in New York City. The 15-credit program includes five courses, including 50 hours of practicum in a bilingual setting. (Students who are full-time teachers may apply 50 hours of fieldwork in their classrooms to fulfill the practicum requirement.) Students will enroll in one course per term for five consecutive terms and may begin in any term. The program will be delivered entirely online through the College’s learning management system, Canvas. Students are not expected to have expertise in an online learning environment prior to enrollment. A student orientation will help students become familiar with the technology. For AY2019-2020, the five online required courses are: Summer A (Mid-May through the end of June) 2019: A&HB 4021 - Foundations of Bilingual/Bicultural Education (3 credits) Summer B (Early-July to Early August) 2019: A&HB 4075 - Cross-Cultural Communication & Classroom Ecology (3 credits) Fall (September-December) 2019: A&HB 4028 - Teaching Literacy in Bilingual Settings (3 credits) Spring (January-May) 2020: A&HB 4323 - Practicum in Bil/Bic Settings (3 credits) Summer A (Mid-May through the end of June) 2020: A&HB 4121 - Bil/Bic Curriculum Design Elementary/Middle School (3 credits) In-Person Program Structure Students enrolled in the in-person program take courses at the Teachers College, Columbia University campus in New York City. The 15/16-credit program includes four required courses and one required elective course as well as 50 hours of practicum in a bilingual setting. (Students who are full-time teachers may apply 50 hours of fieldwork in their classrooms to fulfill the practicum requirement.) Coursework and Schedule The online and in-person programs follow primarily the same curriculum, with the following exception: The in-person program requires an elective. The online format does not require an elective. For a complete list of Bilingual/Bicultural Education courses, consult the TC Academic Catalog. Required Online Courses (15 points) A&HB 4021 - Foundations of Bilingual/Bicultural Education (3 points) A&HB 4075 - Cross-Cultural Communication & Classroom Ecology (3 points) A&HB 4028 - Teaching Literacy in Bilingual Settings (3 points) A&HB 4323 - Practicum in Bil/Bic Settings (3 points) A&HB 4121 - Bil/Bic Curriculum Design Elementary/Middle School (3 points) Required In-Person Courses (15-16 points) A&HB 4021 - Foundations of Bilingual/Bicultural Education (3 points) A&HB 4028 - Teaching Literacy in Bilingual Settings (3 points) A&HB 4121 - Bilingual/Bicultural Curriculum Design Elem/Middle School (3 points) A&HB 4323 - Practicum in Bil/Bic Settings (3-4 points) In-Person Electives (one or more courses) A&HB 4024 - Linguistic Foundations of Bilingual/Bic Education (3 points) A&HB 4075 - Cross-Cultural Communication & Classroom Ecology (3 points) A&HB 4133 - Curriculum & Methods for Bilingual Ed: Science (1 - 3 points) A&HB 4134 - Curriculum & Methods for Bilingual Ed: Math (1- 3 points) Each of these courses will apply toward the Master of Arts in Bilingual/Bicultural Education at Teachers College. Successful participants in the Advanced Certificate in Bilingual/Bicultural Education who wish to obtain a full master’s degree must complete an application for admission to the M.A. in Bilingual/Bicultural program. Admissions Requirements To be eligible for New York State Bilingual Extension Certification/CR-ITI-BE Grant award, applicants must have a baccalaureate degree with a 3.0 undergraduate GPA, and hold or be pursuing a valid New York State base certification, and need to have a native-like fluency in a language other than English. Note: Interested educators with no eligible base certification endorsed by NYSED, or no Language Other Than English background are still encouraged to apply for the online Advanced Certificate program to complete one or more BBE courses (but will be ineligible to be partially funded by the CR-ITI-BE grant). Application materials include: Completed Application for Admission (choose “Advanced Certificate Bilingual/Bicultural Education - Online - SUMMER”) Official undergraduate transcript(s) indicating degree conferral Two letters of recommendation (Academic and/or Professional) 500-word Statement of Purpose Copy of teaching certification* Demonstration of fluency in a language other than English (only applicable to those who are pursuing NYSED Bilingual Extension Certification/CR-ITI-BE Grant award) *Students currently enrolled in a TC teacher certification program should indicate in which program they are enrolled. International students must submit (in addition to the above materials): A course-by-course transcript evaluation completed by WES or ECE Official documentation outlining a teaching credential recognized in their own countries Official TOEFL Score Report. Minimum score requirement: 100 internet-based (IBT) or 600 paper-based exam (PBT) For instructions on how to complete the Advanced Certificate Application for Admission, visit the about the process page. Tuition and Fees Application Fee The application fee is $65. The application fee must be submitted with the application and is not refundable under any circumstances. Tuition Tuition for the 2018/2019 Academic Year is $1635 per point (credit). Fees Students are billed a College Fee every term registered. The College Fee is set for $458 for the 2018/2018 Academic Year. Aspiring French dual language and immersion teachers are encouraged to apply for the FIT fellowship, which will help subsidize the cost of the Advanced Certificate program. Faculty Sharon Chang, Ph.D. Lecturer Estrella Olivares-Orellana, Ed.D Adjunct Assistant Professor Carmen Martinez-Roldan Associate Professor of Bilingual/Bicultural Education Patricia Martinez-Alvarez Assistant Professor of Bilingual Education Contact Ashley Hawkins E: bilingual-bicultural@tc.edu P: (212) 678-3758 Site Map Announcements Why Teachers College? Overview and Courses Faculty Connect TC on Facebook TC on Twitter TC on LinkedIn TC on YouTube Website Feedback Give to TC TC Employment Ethics Reporting Site Public Safety Non-Discrimination Revised University Policy: Gender-Based Misconduct Legal Notices GDPR Notice Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th St. * New York, NY 10027 * 212-678-3000 Close Share Toggle fullscreen Zoom in/out Previous Next