Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content APW Undergraduate Undergraduate UG Concentrations Minors Course Descriptions How to Apply UG Academic Records and Advising UG Concentrations UG Concentrations Applied Physiology and Health Management Undergraduate Specialization Sport Management Undergraduate Concentration Sport Performance Leadership Undergraduate Concentration Minors Minors Applied Physiology Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership Master's Degrees Master's Degrees M.S. in Health Promotion Management M.S. in Sport Management Ph.D. in Education Ph.D. in Education Research Wellness Wellness Wellness PRW1 and PRW 2 Wellness Course Descriptions Wellness Class Schedules Faculty Frequently Asked Questions Wellness Facebook Page ☰ Sport Management Applied Physiology and Sport Management Master's Degrees Master of Science in Sport Management Apply Here Info Sessions Request More Information Schedule a Meeting Master of Science in Sport Management SMU's Master of Science in Sport Management degree is a full-time, 12-month program designed for students who have a passion for the business of sport and who aspire to hold senior-management positions in the multi-billion dollar sports industry. The program is led by sport management professionals with decades of executive experience in a wide range of segments including professional leagues and teams, media and broadcasting, marketing and sponsorship, facilities and sports equipment and apparel. Students will learn important business skills from faculty at the SMU Cox School of Business, ranked nationally by leading business journals. Apply Now ! Interested in our undergraduate program instead? Learn about it here. Application Deadlines - Fall 2022 Entry December 1, 2021 Early decision deadline March 15, 2022 International student deadline June 1, 2022 Final deadline for scholarship consideration Rolling admission after June 1, 2022. Application Materials Completed application form Resume Essay (prompted on application) Transcripts from all colleges/universities attended Optional letters of recommendations (3 max) Note: Test scores are being waived due to the pandemic * If you are interested in scholarship consideration please be sure to check that box on the application as well as complete the section for financial aid (FASFA/SAR) Learn more about our application requirements Program Overview The mission of the Master of Science in Sport Management (MSSM) program is to provide students with industry-specific training focused on the outcomes that develop and foster the ability to design and conduct research, analytical and strategic thinking and effective business communication skills. Students will also develop strong business and financial foundation as it relates to sport organizations. The MSSM graduate will possess an educational foundation and experiential learning advantage in the sport industry. SMU’s Master of Science in Sport Management degree is a full-time, 12-month program designed for students who have a passion for the business of sport and who aspire to hold senior-management positions in the multi-billion dollar sports industry. The program is led by sport management professionals with decades of executive experience in a wide range of segments including professional leagues and teams, media and broadcasting, marketing and sponsorship, facilities and sports equipment and apparel. Students will learn important business skills from faculty at the SMU Cox School of Business, ranked nationally by leading business journals. An experiential learning approach will provide students with “real life” case studies and networking through symposiums, mentorships and internships with some of the most prominent sports leaders and organizations in the United States. FAQs Curriculum The program’s 17 sequenced courses are delivered over one year in four 7-week modules and one summer internship. In the schedule below, classes designated ACCT, BUSE, FINA, MAST, MNO, MNGT, STRA are taught through the Cox School of Business; classes designated SPRT are taught through the Simmons School of Education and Human Development. Modules follow the Cox School of Business calendar. Sixteen classes are two credit hours; one, one credit-hour class; and one four credit-hour internship. View curriculum plan Virtual Info Sessions: TBA for Spring 2022 Esports Business Management Certificate SMU works with some of the most accomplished names in the world of esports. From local entrepreneurs, to business owners around the country, you will learn from some of the best and brightest who are involved in just about every aspect of Esports: team building, the business of esports (management, finance, risks, and more), fan engagement, streaming strategies, sponsorship, tournament design, and much more. The certificate consists of six required 12 contact hour courses (72 contact hours total) which offer a mix of asynchronous material and weekly live online meetings with your instructor. You may complete the recorded asynchronous material at your own pace prior to each corresponding live session. The certificate can be completed in as few as 6 months. Program News Niche.com Gives SMU High rating and Highlights Sport Management Program September 15, 2020 Niche.com, a ranking site for schools and neighborhoods, places SMU high on its list as one of the top colleges in Texas. SMU comes in at fourth, and is cited for being one of the Best Colleges for Sports Management (No. 3 of 413). Other ratings include Best Christian Colleges in America (No. 6 of 362), and Best Colleges for Accounting and Finance (No. 10 of 789). To determine rankings, the site relies on U.S. Department of Education data coupled with reviews from current students, alumni, and parents to judge American colleges on 12 factors, including academics, campus, dorm life, and professors. Niche.com helps parents and students choose colleges and K-12 schools. Read more here. SMU's M.S. Sport Management Graduate Program Team Won the 2020 National Sports Forum Case Cup Competition! Southern Methodist University 2020 NSF Case Cup Champions ATLANTA, GEORGIA – Southern Methodist University’s (SMU) Masters of Science in Sports Management (MSSM) team won the 2020 National Sports Forum Case Cup Competition. SMU’s team edged out 11 other top tier programs, including previous winners Ohio University and University of Oregon. The case was presented to the students Saturday, February 8th, and teams were asked to execute a full sponsorship proposal in presentation form within a 24-hour timeframe. The case focused on improving an existing partnership between NASCAR and Coca-Cola. Brendan Berry, Parker Richey, Erik Severson, and El Yellin, now MSSM graduates from SMU, were selected earlier in the year to participate in the competition. Each student successfully utilized their individual skillset to create a successful team dynamic. Professor and MSSM Program Director Peter Carton successfully organized the team and developed opportunities for them to practice “mock cases” prior to the competition. HOW IT HAPPENED SMU’s sports management team successfully put together a unique plan focusing on using Coca-Cola’s diverse platform to help the NASCAR demographic. Each team was given a $5 million-dollar budget and the judges deemed the SMU team decisions in its use top tier. SMU’s idea of building a foundation for under privileged youth was also well received. Parker Richey, who was the Graduate Assistant for the program at the time said, "This was a once in a lifetime opportunity and experience for all of us. We have learned a lot in our program so far, but this competition was an opportunity for application. Our team worked hard to create unique activation plans between the two companies and wanted to create ideas that had a lasting impact.” Master of Science in Sport Management Application Information Information Sessions Curriculum Course Descriptions Student Job Opportunities Our Faculty Meet Our Graduate Assistants FAQ Professional Development & Career Resources Tweets by SMUSportMgmt Upcoming Events Request info Contact Sport Management Contact Us 214-768-2776 smusportmangement@smu.edu Request Information Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall 3101 University Blvd, Suite 306 Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter