Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > COVID-19 Vaccination Updates COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccination Updates December 18, 2020 Dear colleagues: We are writing to share several important updates regarding our COVID-19 vaccination efforts at CUIMC. As you know, our partner NewYork-Presbyterian, under the leadership of Drs. Steven Corwin and Laura Forese, began vaccinating frontline health care workers, including Columbia faculty and staff, on Wednesday, December 16. Full-time providers and staff in the emergency departments and intensive care units at Milstein, Allen, CHONY, and Lawrence were immediately inoculated with the first available doses of vaccine. In the first three days more than 3,500 employees across the NYP system have received the initial dose of the two-dose Pfizer/BioNTech mRNA vaccine. Amongst them are more than 600 CUIMC employees and CUIMC students who are serving in our EDs and ICUs. Yesterday the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee met and endorsed Moderna’s COVID-19 vaccine. The FDA is expected to authorize the vaccine for emergency use today, which would allow 5.9 million doses of the vaccine to be shipped to sites across the nation this weekend. We expect to begin administering the Moderna vaccine and continue the Pfizer vaccine at CUIMC next week. On Monday, December 14, I announced that we had convened a committee to ensure the equitable distribution of vaccines and to address other issues, including understanding the needs of the community, ensuring that health care disparities do not become barriers to vaccination, potential impact upon mental health, and other aspects. This week we added three members to the committee: Dustin T. Duncan, ScD, associate professor, Mailman School of Public Health; Stephen A. Ferrara, RN, DNP, FNP-BC, associate dean of clinical affairs, School of Nursing; and Biana Roykh, DDS, MPH, senior associate dean for clinical affairs, College of Dental Medicine. Today, we are launching a new CUIMC Vaccine Information Page. It includes information about the CUIMC Vaccine Committee and updated FAQs that have been informed by questions from health care workers and by our experience with the first stages of the vaccine roll-out. A prioritized roll-out of the vaccine will continue as we receive shipments of vaccine, beginning with health care providers and staff in patient-facing roles. In the weeks and months ahead, everyone at CUIMC – faculty, staff and trainees at all levels – will receive a COVID-19 vaccine free of charge. We ask for your continued patience and collaboration as we methodically make our way to every one of you as quickly as we can. We cannot thank you enough for all you have done and continue to do in support of our patients, our community, and each other. We again thank the NewYork-Presbyterian leadership and management for their partnership in this process. Sincerely yours, Anil K. Rustgi, MD Interim Executive Vice President and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine Linda P. Fried, MD, MPH Dean, Mailman School of Public Health Lorraine Frazier, RN, PhD Dean, School of Nursing Christian S. Stohler, DMD, DrMedDent Dean, College of Dental Medicine George A. “Jack” Cioffi, MD President, ColumbiaDoctors Donna Lynne, DrPH Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC CEO, ColumbiaDoctors University COVID Director Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top