Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close 245 Beacon Street opens New $150-million facility is the home of Boston College's Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society and a focal point of the University's $300 million initiative in the sciences Morrissey College of Arts & Sciences News from the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences 'Novel and exciting' More than 37 million Americans suffer from diabetes. New research findings linking gut microbes with pancreatic function could revolutionize their treatment. 2022 Finnegan Award Jenna Mu receives Boston College's highest Commencement honor. BC junior wins Truman Scholarship Emma Story's interest in politics and government has taken her beyond the classroom since her high school days. ACM recognizes BC computer science professor Associate Professor Jean-Baptiste Tristan is a co-recipient of the Association for Computing Machinery Software System Award. Fiddler on the Heights Meet sophomore Andrew Caden, one of the best young Irish fiddlers in the world. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers awards $6.2M grant to BC research team A four-year partnership will examine water quality in watersheds and along coastlines in three U.S. regions. More MCAS News Liberal Arts Advantage BC's approach to liberal arts education challenges students to learn across disciplines, prepares them for a range of rewarding careers, and helps them discern who they want to be—and why. More About the Advantage The Core Curriculum The centerpiece of Jesuit education has always been a common curriculum that emphasizes the rigorous study of the defining works of the humanities, natural sciences, and social sciences. Core Courses & Requirements Morrissey College at a Glance 37 Majors 48 Minors 22 Academic Departments 4 Special Programs Graduate Programs in Arts & Sciences 25+ Graduate Programs 600+ Doctoral Students 150+ Master's Students 100% Funding for Doctoral Students Come Discover Boston College Students reflect during a retreat at the Connors Center Bapst Library has been nationally recognized as one of the most beautiful libraries in higher education Students prepare for graduation on Linden Lane Fr. Kalscheur meeting with students in Gasson Hall. Professor Ethan Baxter in the lab with students. The PULSE program educates students about social injustice by putting them into direct contact with marginalized populations. Academic convocation is a Boston College tradition celebrating the start of the academic year. Students reflect during a retreat at the Connors Center Bapst Library has been nationally recognized as one of the most beautiful libraries in higher education Students prepare for graduation on Linden Lane Fr. Kalscheur meeting with students in Gasson Hall. Professor Ethan Baxter in the lab with students. The PULSE program educates students about social injustice by putting them into direct contact with marginalized populations. Academic convocation is a Boston College tradition celebrating the start of the academic year. Students reflect during a retreat at the Connors Center Bapst Library has been nationally recognized as one of the most beautiful libraries in higher education Students prepare for graduation on Linden Lane Fr. Kalscheur meeting with students in Gasson Hall. Professor Ethan Baxter in the lab with students. The PULSE program educates students about social injustice by putting them into direct contact with marginalized populations. Academic convocation is a Boston College tradition celebrating the start of the academic year. « » 245 Beacon Street: BC's New State-of-the-Art Science Facility 245 Beacon Street is a 150,000-sq. ft, state-of-the-art science facility in the heart of the Boston College campus, featuring the Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society, the departments of Engineering and Computer Science, and the Shea Center for Entrepreneurship. This centerpiece of BC's $300 million strategic investment in the sciences officially opened on January 18, 2022. Learn more about 245 Beacon Street Back To Top Back To Top Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College