Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × In Service of Humanity “Princeton University has a longstanding commitment to service, reflected in Princeton’s informal motto — Princeton in the nation’s service and the service of humanity — and exemplified by the extraordinary contributions that Princetonians make to society.” Christopher L. Eisgruber President of Princeton University, Class of 1983 Connecting Learning & Service The value of service is central to the mission of Princeton as a liberal arts university. It infuses the passions and pursuits of our students, faculty, staff and alumni, and is essential to how Princetonians serve the public good. The University has reinforced its commitment to helping students and alumni use their educations to not only benefit themselves but also society more broadly. We push students, faculty and alumni to think about how their research, education and lives will benefit the nation, the world and humanity, and give them the support and resources to make it happen. Leading Lives of Purpose Princetonians pursue service in many ways, such as through a profession, vocation or role. With innovation and purpose, our students work with each other to propose and pursue civic engagement projects throughout their time at Princeton. Ideas for engagement arise through classes and research, student organizations and campus activities, and many have a home in the Pace Center for Civic Engagement. Our alumni engage in service across the world, participating in civic society and leading meaningful lives connected to a larger purpose and impact. Every year, more than 15,000 alumni volunteer to serve Princeton and University-sponsored projects. Alumni can serve with their class, regional associations, affiliated groups, the Association of Princeton Graduate Alumni and more. Annually at Alumni Day, top honors go to an undergraduate alumnus and a graduate alumnus for their service to society. Building Community Connections Princeton-sponsored service programs offer positive ways for students, faculty and staff to engage with the larger community. Among many initiatives supported by the University community are opportunities to serve as firefighters; donate bikes, food and clothing for charities; promote sustainability and environmental stewardship; and host educational and commemorative events, such as for Martin Luther King Jr. Day. University Volunteer Firefighters . The Princeton University Volunteer Firefighter Program includes University employees who augment the municipality's fire department volunteer ranks during critical daytime hours. Learn More Community Celebration . Princeton University hosts a community breakfast to celebrate the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Learn More Emphasizing Commitment to Service In 2016, Princeton's informal motto was revised to "In the Nation's Service and the Service of Humanity," bridging phrases from Woodrow Wilson, Class of 1879, who served as president of Princeton before becoming president of the United States, and Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor, Class of 1976. A medallion with the informal motto is set in the crossroads of the walkways on the front lawn of Nassau Hall. Learn More Meet Princeton In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice