CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Inter-Campus Delivery Service Use of this service is restricted to Columbia University affiliates. Guidelines Please review the guidelines and instructions before continuing: Eligible Users The Inter-Campus Delivery Service is limited to current students, faculty, and staff at Columbia University, Barnard College, and Teachers College having a registered University Network ID ("UNI") and password. Eligible Materials Any circulating book in good condition. Non-Eligible Materials Journals; reserve material from any library; reference material from any library; items from the Butler Media Collection; any materials from the Rare Books & Manuscript Library or other special collections; any materials with the CLIO locations Avery or Fine Arts; any materials from Barnard College collections (temporarily); and materials housed in any of the Libraries' offsite shelving facilities. Pickup and Return Locations The delivery service is only available between libraries on the Morningside Heights campus, the Health Sciences Library at the Irving Medical Center, and the Businesss Library at Manhattanville. Books should be returned to the library where you received them. Delivery and Hold Periods Requested items will be delivered within 3 - 4 business days. Materials will be held for 10 days for pickup. Circulation and Renewals Materials will circulate according to the owning library's policies. Books delivered via the Inter-Campus Delivery Service may be renewed, provided there are no other patrons waiting for the item. (To renew electronically, consult CLIO.) Fines The standard fines policies of the library that owns the material will apply. Please note that the Health Sciences Library charges fines to all patrons including faculty and officers. Request Limits The Libraries reserve the right to limit the number of requests per day that will be filled for a person, depending on the number of overall requests received and available staff. How to request book delivery service Click the "Continue" button below and authenticate to use the service. A CLIO record or citation can be pasted into the Web-based request form. After submitting the online request, a confirmation message will appear on the screen. If you do not see this message, please re-submit the request. Within 3 - 4 business days, you will receive e-mail notification that the item is available or an explanation if it is not available. You may check the status of the item in CLIO at any time. Questions or Comments Use the form below to send questions or comments regarding Inter-Campus Delivery Service. Would you like a response? Yes No If so, please provide contact information below: Name E-mail Send To Health Sciences Library Avery Library Barnard College Library Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library East Asian Library (Starr) Engineering Library Geology Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Library (Supplier Only) Music & Arts Library Science & Engineering Library Ware Office / Department Sidebar Columbia University Libraries Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Map: Libraries Map » Access & Borrowing Links Library Information Office Accessing the Libraries Borrowing & Renewing Materials Library Services Links Request Items Services & Tools Visitors Course Reserves Study Spaces Disability Services Preservation & Digital Conversion Division Libraries Website Search CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.