Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Gift names new UC College of Law building atrium Alumnus Niehoff honors his longtime law firm By Julia Mace Email JuliaEmail Julia May 23, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like A University of Cincinnati alumnus has made a gift of $500,000 to the new University of Cincinnati College of Law building. H.C. Buck Niehoff, JD ’72, HON ’11, is honoring his former law firm, Peck, Shaffer & Williams LLP, by naming the two-story atrium. The grand opening of the College of Law’s new home is September 13, 2022. Niehoff said his gift celebrates the firm where he spent his 40-year law career and coincides with his 50-year class reunion. H.C. Buck Niehoff, JD ’72, HON ’11. Photo by Andrew Higley/UC Creative + Brand. “It is important that this significant contribution to the legal profession not be forgotten,” Niehoff said. “By memorializing this legacy, I hope to inspire future generations of lawyers by the leadership of Peck, Shaffer & Williams in helping to develop an important area of the law over a span of 125 years.” Peck, Shaffer & Williams, which merged with Dinsmore & Shohl LLP in 2014, served as a leader in public finance law, specializing in the municipal bond industry. The revitalization of UC’s campus in the 1990s was one of many projects financed by bonds approved by the firm. Niehoff is a long-time supporter of the university, serving his alma mater with time and financial support. He is a former chair of the UC Board of Trustees and was a co-chair of the Proudly Cincinnati fundraising campaign. Naming the atrium for Peck, Shaffer & Williams is so fitting,” said Verna Williams, Dean and Nippert Professor of Law. “That firm was well known for serving municipalities and public institutions – for example, helping UC fund the architectural transformation that has made this university one of the world’s most beautiful campuses. Buck’s generosity means that legacy will live on to inspire tomorrow’s leaders.” Niehoff said Cincinnati has been fortunate to have UC Law as a resource since 1833. A state-of-the-art facility is as crucial as having outstanding professors, he added. The $45.6 million renovation of the former Lindner Hall building along Martin Luther King Jr. Ave., will transform the existing 84,443-square-foot facility in the heart of campus. Enhancements include upgraded classroom technology, expanded library facilities and centralized student services. Naming the atrium for Peck, Shaffer & Williams is so fitting. That firm was well known for serving municipalities and public institutions – for example, helping UC fund the architectural transformation that has made this university one of the world’s most beautiful campuses. Verna Williams Dean and Nippert Professor of Law “The new law school building creates a focal point to enhance the practice of law in Cincinnati and we need to support its successful completion as the construction moves to its final phases,” Niehoff said. Thinking back to his time in law school, Niehoff adds, “It seems like yesterday that we were attending graduation in Nippert Stadium. The professional skills I learned at UC formed the basis of the career that I enjoyed and that I became successful doing.” This donation supports the priorities of Next, Now: The Campaign for Cincinnati, the comprehensive fundraising effort for UC and UC Health. Featured image at top: Rendering of atrium at the new College of Law building. Next, Now With its focus on innovation and impact, Next, Now: The Campaign for Cincinnati is where ambition meets action. At the University of Cincinnati and UC Health, we’re driven by next; thinking bolder and dreaming bigger to create the tomorrow we envision, today. Learn more at nextnow.uc.edu. Tags Alumni Association UC Foundation College of Law Related Stories Meduza: Genocide in Ukraine May 31, 2022 Erin Farrell Rosenberg, a Visiting Scholar with the Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights at the University of Cincinnati College of Law, was one of four panelists discussing genocide with the Latvian-based news publication Meduza. Who wants to go for a ride? May 27, 2022 When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. DAAP grad Lee Wilger lands job at Relativity Textiles in... May 26, 2022 Relativity Textiles offers co-op experiences for DAAP students, and Lee Wilger is returning there as an employee. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top