Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Our Organization About Columbia Health About Columbia Health About Columbia Health Welcome to Columbia Health Transcript Hello and welcome to Columbia Health. We’re here to help you stay healthy, so you can focus on your studies, and all that Columbia and New York City have to offer. Columbia Health offers a broad range of on campus services including routine and urgent medical visits, short-term mental-health counseling, sexual violence prevention and advocacy services, disability services, along with educational and skill-based health and wellness programs. These services are available to students, as part of the Columbia Health fee. (diagram of Columbia Health units) All offices are located on the Morningside campus (map of Morningside locations, with footnote about SVR and DS CUMC locations). Medical Services is a comprehensive, primary care practice that can meet the majority of your medical needs while you’re at Columbia. In addition to preventive and primary care Medical Services offers nutrition counseling, gynecological and IUD placement, sports medicine, travel medicine, allergy shots, immunizations and even acupuncture. For most students, appointments can easily be made on the Columbia Health website health.columbia.edu Counseling and Psychological Services offers short-term therapy, medication management, and support groups on different topics including trauma, eating disorders, mindfulness, and managing academics. CPS clinicians are highly trained, represent a broad variety of cultural backgrounds and professional experience, and offer treatment in more than a dozen languages. (illustration of representing different languages). Sexual Violence Response is a confidential support resource for students. Professional staff and volunteers provide crisis counseling, intervention and advocacy. SVR operates a 24 hour, 7 days a week helpline where you can seek confidential support (show Helpline number: 212-854-HELP(4357)). SVR also provides prevention education and outreach, through innovative workshops, trainings and co-sponsored events. Disability Services facilitates access for students with disabilities by coordinating accommodations and services. Disability Services works with students with all types of disabilities including physical, psychiatric, sensory, and learning disabilities, and students with chronic medical conditions. Visit the Columbia Health website for information on how to register. Alice! Health Promotion focuses on building and supporting a campus environment where healthier choices are the norm. Alice! offers health and wellness programs to promote good sleep habits, cope with stress, understand responsible alcohol use, support healthy sexual activity, and much more. Visit Go Ask Alice!, our online health Q&A resource, to find answers to your most personal health questions. goaskalice.columbia.edu For more information about Columbia Health or to make an appointment, please visit us online. health.columbia.edu, facebook.com/columbiahealth, @columbiahealth on Instagram Take advantage of these campus resources – after all—your health is up to you! Be well, Columbia Health This video is captioned in six languages. Click on each language below to view the video in that language: Simplified Chinese • Korean • Japanese • Italian • Spanish • French Want to work with Columbia Health? View our open positions Mission Columbia Health advances the well-being of the Columbia University community and the personal and academic development of students. Vision Columbia Health envisions delivering integrated, accessible, quality services and community programs to cultivate the best possible and enduring outcomes while living, working, and learning. Values Respect, Compassion, and Inclusiveness Integrity, Accountability, and Trust Teamwork, Collaboration, and Integration Quality, Assessment, and Excellence About Columbia Health provides services to the Morningside schools (including affiliates) with select services also provided on the Medical Center campus. Our team has more than 150 individuals, including medical providers, therapists, psychiatrists, disability specialists, health promotion specialists, nutritionists, peer counselors, support staff, and administrative professionals. Led by Senior Vice President Melanie Bernitz, MD, MPH, Columbia Health senior staff oversee the following areas: Administration, led by Michael McNeil, EdD Alice! Health Promotion, led by Raphael Florestal-Kevelier, PhD, MPH Counseling and Psychological Services, led by Richard Eichler, PhD Disability Services, led by Colleen Lewis, MS Medical Services, led by Brenda Aiken, MD Sexual Violence Response, led by La’Shawn Rivera, MA Columbia Health is fully accredited by the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC). All Columbia Health providers are credentialed in accordance with state and federal mandates, as well as AAAHC requirements. Columbia Health is recognized by the AAAHC as a Patient-Centered Medical Home. The services provided by a Medical Home are patient-centered, comprehensive, accessible, and organized to meet the needs of the individual patients served. Within the patient-centered Medical Home, patients are empowered to be responsible for their own health care. Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close