Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Benjamin Lawson Hooks Papers About Topics Essays Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Benjamin L. Hooks and President Ronald Reagan at the White House Benjamin Hooks on the Federal Communications Commission Benjamin and Frances Dancy Hooks Read more about Frances Dancy Hooks Benjamin L. Hooks Speaks at the University of Memphis. Nov. 4, 2019 Dr. Benjamin Hooks with Vice President George H. W. Bush Read "Benjamin Hooks and Partisan Politics" PreviousNext Take Action University Libraries Special Collections University Libraries Digital Commons Ask-a-Librarian Home Benjamin Lawson Hooks Papers The Benjamin Hooks Papers Digitization Project: The Benjamin Lawson Hooks Papers collection is housed in the Preservation & Special Collections Department of the University Libraries, University of Memphis.This digitization project is a cooperative project of the Libraries and the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change at the University of Memphis. The Libraries' responsibility extends to archival processing, preservation, and publication through the University Libraries Digital Commons. Technical guidance and direction are provided by the libraries' staff and faculty while the Institute provides the necessary financial support. This project was made possible by the generous support of DuPont (Wilmington DE), Federal Express, and the Hyde Family Foundation. The papers of Benjamin Lawson Hooks span close to 400 boxes, containing correspondence, speeches, printed materials, administrative files, photographs, and audio and video recordings that pertain to his life, especially his role as executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People from 1977-1992. This website is dedicated to the promotion and analysis of the Benjamin Lawson Hooks papers through digitization and historical essays. Our aim is to exhibit to the scholarly community and general public the richness and value of the Hooks papers through digital representations of its material and short essays based primarily on the manuscript collection itself. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/21/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.