Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Our Work Resources News & Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate Resources Degree Requirements and Course Descriptions Declare Anthropology Major Honors in Anthropology Accelerated BA/MA Program University Calendars UofM Catalog Undergraduate Alumni Take Action Undergraduates Join the Graduate Program Support the Department Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Majors Honors in Anthropology Graduating with Honors in Anthropology In this Section: Basic Information Choosing an Advisor Research Topic Culminating Experience How to Apply Basic Information Eligibility: Determining if you're eligible for the honors program is easy. If you answer "yes" to all the questions below, then you're eligible. Are you an anthropology major? Have you taken or plan to take ANTH 4010: Ethnographic Methods? Do you have a minimum 3.25 GPA in the anthropology major? Do you have a minimum 3.0 GPA in general coursework at the UM? Requirements*: Inclusive grade point average of at least 3.00 Cumulative grade point average of at least 3.25 in the major Completion of ANTH 4010: Ethnographic Methods 4 honors courses in anthropology Completion of independent research (traditional or engaged scholarship) culminating in an original research thesis or creative work. * These requirements apply to students who join the UofM under the 2019-2020 Undergraduate Curriculum Catalog. Students who joined the university prior to this date have the option of completing the honors requirements detailed under earlier catalogs. Consult with Professor Latta to determine the best strategy for your individual circumstances. Benefits: Small classes with highly motivated students Individualized attention from professors Opportunities to conduct anthropological research Opportunities to compete for scholarly awards Greater preparation for graduate or professional school “Honors in Anthropology” emblem attached to your diploma. Choosing an Advisor: Choosing an advisor is a critical step in the decision to join the honors program. Here are some questions to think about before choosing an advisor. What faculty do you know in the department and how do you know them? Does their research or coursework line up with your research interests? Do you have a good relationship with your prospective advisor? Have you talked to your advisor about working with them? Is your prospective advisor available in the coming year to work with you? Research Topic: Deciding on a research topic can feel like an overwhelming task. Here are some questions/suggestions to think about when choosing a topic. What course themes or issues got your attention most? Students often choose their research topics from of a course theme or issue that grabbed their attention. Think about what inspired you in your courses and consider what a project of your own might look like. Is this project important to you? Why? Some students choose projects that relate to their own lives in some direct way. Others pursue research in areas that interested them in some other way. Think about what topic interests you the most and brainstorm some possible research ideas. Then discuss them with friends or a faculty member to get feedback. Will you have time to devote to your research project in the coming year? Some students work on their research for 1-2 months. Others may conduct several months of research built into a study abroad. Writing the thesis can take one to two semesters. How much time your project demands depends on your own goals but there's no single standard. Think about how much time you'll have to devote to this project. Time is an important piece of the research! If you have any questions about the honors program, please contact Professor Latta at kslatta@memphis.edu. Culminating Experience: Students can enroll in: (Preferred) ANTH 4899 Thesis Course: Work under the direction of a faculty member to write a thesis based on primary and/or secondary sources. Students who pursue the thesis course (ANTH 4899) will follow the guidelines outlined in the Honors College thesis manual. ANTH 4985: Directed Individual Research: Work under the supervision of a faculty member to conduct research (traditional or engaged scholarship), analyze and present findings in the form of an original research paper or creative work. Students who pursue this option will develop a directed research learning contract with their supervisor that specifies a theoretical and methodological orientation, timeline for research/engagement, and resulting products. Questions? Contact Prof. Kenny Latta at kslatta@memphis.edu. How to Apply: Complete the application form available here Submit a 500-800 word statement of interest that describes (1) your research topic and questions (what is your topic and what questions will guide your investigation of this topic); (2) your reason for wanting to pursue this project (why have you selected this topic and why/how does it fit into your interests: academic, personal, etc.; (3) and details of what experiences, coursework, or background have prepared you to be successful in achieving your goals in the honors program. Identify a potential thesis advisor and second reader (Optional) Curriculum vitae or resume Materials should be emailed to Professor Latta at kslatta@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.