Skip to content Columbia Neurology Make an Appointment Ways to Give Search About Us About Us Message from the Chair The Neurological Institute of New York Timeline Our Divisions Our Faculty Professorships in Neurology Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility (DEIA) Program News Events Ways to Give Contact Us Our Divisions Aging and Dementia Child Neurology Cognitive Neuroscience Critical Care and Hospitalist Neurology Epilepsy and Sleep General Neurology Movement Disorders Neuroimmunology Neurology Clinical Outcomes Research and Population Science (NeuroCORPS) Neuromuscular Medicine Neuro-Oncology Stroke and Cerebrovascular Disease Diversity and Inclusion Program The Department of Neurology has a long and dynamic legacy of promoting diversity and inclusion in the workplace and health care setting. Learn More About the Program Patient Care Patient Care Providers Specialties Resources Telehealth Patient Safety Make an Appointment Our Locations Specialties Aging and Dementia ALS and Other Motor Neuron Disorders Child Neurology Critical Care and Hospitalist Neurology Epilepsy General Neurology Headache and Facial Pain Movement Disorders Multiple Sclerosis Neurogenetics Neuromuscular Medicine Neuro-Oncology (Brain and Spinal Tumors) Neuropsychology Peripheral Neuropathies Sleep Disorders Stroke and Cerebrovascular Disease Make an Appointment Contact our scheduling team to make an in-person or Virtual Visit appointment Make an Appointment Education Education About Education in the Department Residency Programs Fellowship Programs Additional Educational Programs Fellowship Programs Behavioral Neurology and Neuropsychiatry Clinical Neurophysiology and Epilepsy Clinical Neuropsychology General Neurology and Neuro-epidemiology Movement Disorders Multiple Sclerosis and Clinical Neuroimmunology Neurocritical Care Neuroinfectious Disease Neuro-Oncology Fellowship Training Program Neuropsychology of Epilepsy NIH T32 Neuro-Epidemiology Training Program Peripheral Nerve Disorders Vascular Neurology Residency Programs Learn about our Adult Neurology and Child Neurology Residency Programs. Get More Information Research Research About Our Research Annual Events Clinical Trials Our Researchers Research by Division Research Labs Research Programs and Partners Research Programs and Partners Alzheimer's Disease Research Center (ADRC) Center for Interdisciplinary Research on Alzheimer’s Disease Disparities (CIRAD) Community and Global Neurology Columbia Translational Neuroscience Initiative (CTNI) CurePSP Center of Care Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center Initiative for Columbia Ataxia and Tremor (ICAT) Lewy Body Dementia Association Research Center of Excellence National Institute on Aging Alzheimer’s Disease Family Based Study (NIA-AD FBS) NeuroNEXT: Network for Excellence in Neuroscience Clinical Trials at Columbia Thompson Family Foundation Initiative at Columbia University (TFFI) Center for Statistical Genetics Clinical Trials Clinical trials are a key component of the research mission of the Department of Neurology at CUIMC Explore Current Clinical Trials Richard P. Mayeux, MD, MSc Specialties: NeurologyMore specialties Accepting New Patients Virtual Visits/Telehealth Profile Navigation Overview Schedule an Appointment Location(s) Insurance Accepted Credentials & Experience Research Overview alzheimers_disease_what_you_need_to_know Dr. Richard Mayeux is the Gertrude H. Sergievsky Professor of Neurology, Psychiatry and Epidemiology, chair of the Department of Neurology at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, and Neurologist-in-Chief at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia University Medical Center. Dr. Mayeux is also director of the Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, a center devoted to the epidemiologic investigation of neurological diseases, and co-director of the Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain at Columbia University Medical Center. Dr. Mayeux graduated with distinction from the University of Oklahoma School of Health Sciences and trained in Internal Medicine at the Boston City Hospital and in Neurology at the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in New York. He completed a fellowship in the study of disorders of behavior, language, and cognition with the late D.Frank Benson in Boston. Dr. Mayeux completed graduate work in epidemiology at the Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. Dr. Mayeux has led a multidisciplinary, population-based investigation of Alzheimer's disease and related disorders known as the Washington Heights-Inwood Community Aging Project (WHICAP) since 1989. Utilizing this WHICAP population, he and his colleagues were among the first to integrate genetic risk factors and epidemiological principles in an attempt to identify biological markers of susceptibility to degenerative diseases of the aging nervous system. He has been the author of over 350 papers, chapters, and books dealing with various aspects of Alzheimer's disease and other degenerative diseases of the aging brain. Dr. Mayeux has been the Robert Aird Visiting Professor at the University of California at San Francisco, the Emanuel Goldberg Visiting Professor at the University of Rochester, and the J.L. Silversides Visiting Professor at the University of Toronto. He was the recipient of the Columbia University Dean's Distinguished Clinical Scientist Award, and received the Rita Hayworth Award from the Alzheimer's Association. Dr. Mayeux is a fellow of the American Academy of Neurology and the New York Academy of Science, a member of the American Neurological Association and the Association of American Physicians. He is also a member of the Association for Research in Nervous and Mental Disease, the Society for Epidemiologic Research, and the Society for Neuroscience. He has served as a member of the Aging Review and the Epidemiology of Chronic Disorders Committees for the National Institutes of Health and the Medical and Scientific Advisory Board for the Alzheimer's Association. In 2001, he was elected to the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies. He has received the 2007 Potamkin Prize from the American Academy of Neurology, the 2008 John Stearns Award for Lifetime Achievement in Medicine from the New York Academy of Medicine, and the 2009 Henry Wisniewski Lifetime Achievement Award in Alzheimer's Disease Research from the Alzheimer's Association. Areas of Expertise / Conditions Treated Aging Alzheimer's Disease Dementia Epidemiology Genetic Disorders Academic Appointments Gertrude H. Sergievsky Professor of Neurology, Psychiatry and Epidemiology (in the Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center and in the Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain) Administrative Titles Chair, Department of Neurology Director, Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center Co-Director, Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain Director, Human Genetic Resources Core Hospital Affiliations NewYork-Presbyterian / Columbia University Irving Medical Center Gender Male Schedule an Appointment Virtual Visits/Telehealth Virtual Visits allow you to connect with your provider from the comfort, convenience, and safety of your own home. Schedule Virtual Visit Phone Appointments New and Existing Patients: 646-426-3876 Connect Patient Portal For existing patients, login to make an appointment, view documentation or contact your care provider. Connect Sign In Location(s) CUIMC/Neurological Institute of New York 710 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 Primary Open location in Google Maps Insurance Accepted Aetna Aetna Signature Administrators EPO HMO Medicare Managed Care NYP Employee Plan NY Signature POS PPO Student Health Affinity Health Plan Essential Plan Medicaid Managed Care AgeWell Medicare Managed Care Special Needs Amida Care Special Needs Cigna EPO Great West (National) HMO POS PPO Emblem/GHI Medicare Managed Care PPO Emblem/HIP ConnectiCare EPO Essential Plan HMO Medicaid Managed Care Medicare Managed Care POS PPO Select Care (Exchange) Vytra Empire Blue Cross/Blue Shield EPO HMO Medicare Managed Care PPO Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield HealthPlus Child/Family Health Plus Essential Plan Medicaid Managed Care Fidelis Care Child/Family Health Plus Essential Plan Medicaid Managed Care Medicare Managed Care Healthfirst Child/Family Health Plus Leaf (Exchange) Medicaid Managed Care Medicare Managed Care Local 1199 Local 1199 MagnaCare (National) MagnaCare Medicare Railroad Traditional Medicare Multiplan Multiplan MVP Health Care Child/Family Health Plus Essential Plan HMO Medicaid Managed Care Oxford Health Plans Freedom Liberty RiverSpring Special Needs UnitedHealthcare Empire Plan HMO Medicaid (Community Plan) Medicare Managed Care POS PPO VNSNY CHOICE Medicare Managed Care SelectHealth Special Needs WellCare Medicaid Managed Care Medicare Managed Care *Please contact the provider’s office directly to verify that your particular insurance is accepted. Credentials & Experience Education & Training University of Oklahoma College of Medicine MD, University of Oklahoma College of Medicine Internship: Boston City Hospital Residency: Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, NY Fellowship: Boston VA Hospital Board Certifications Neurology Honors & Awards 1992 - Leadership and Excellence in Alzheimer’s Disease Award (LEAD), National Institute of Aging 1998 - Dean’s Award, Columbia University, Distinguished Clinical Scientis 1999 - Association of American Physicians & American Epidemiological Society 2001 - Institute of Medicine, National Academies of Science 2004 - Fellow, New York Academy of Science 2007 - Potamkin Prize for Research in Pick’s, Alzheimer’s, and Related Diseases American Academy of Neurology 2008 - John Stearns Award for Lifetime Achievement in Medicine, New York Academy of Medicine 2009 - The Henry Wisniewski Lifetime Achievement Award in Alzheimer’s Disease Research from the Alzheimer’s Association 2013 - Fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science America's Top Doctor Research Dr. Mayeux has led an epidemiological investigation of Alzheimer's disease and related conditions known as the Washington Heights-Inwood Community Aging Project over a period of 18 years. He studies the rates and risk factors for Alzheimer' disease among elderly of mainly African-American and Caribbean Hispanic descent. Dr. Mayeux also directs a genetic study of Alzheimer's disease in Caribbean Hispanic families. He has completed two full genome-wide scans in these families and is working to fine map regions of interest. He recently identified genetic variants in the sortilin-related receptor, SORL1, related to Alzheimer's disease. Dr. Mayeux is the coordinating investigator for the National Institute on Aging Late Onset Alzheimer's Disease Family Study. This study began in 2002 with the goal of identifying 1,000 families multiply affected by Alzheimer's disease. Most recently, he is the lead investigator in a collaborative study of families that display exceptional survival and longevity. Research Interests Aging and Dementia Alzheimer's disease Biomarkers of Risk and Progression in Alzheimer's disease Early Onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD) Genetic Epidemiology of Alzheimer's disease Late Onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) Neurology Grants To learn more about this researcher's funding, please visit CUSP.org For a complete list of publications, please visit PubMed.gov Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Patient Care Education Research Contact Us Make an Appointment Columbia University Irving Medical Center The Neurological Institute of New York 710 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top