Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy College of Health Professions and Sciences News Survivor Link National Training Program Launches at UCF The program will support nine social work students, developing their ability to respond to domestic violence. UCF Opens New Huntington’s Disease Multispecialty Clinic Located in Research Park, the new clinic offers multidisciplinary care from the College of Medicine, School of Social Work, and College of Health Professions and Sciences. UCF Class Spotlight: Introduction to American Sign Language In honor of National American Sign Language Day, April 15, here’s a look at a course — plus an instructional video — that teaches students about ASL signs, phrases and Deaf culture. UCF Students Team up to Provide Care at Apopka Farmworkers Clinic For the first time since the pandemic, the clinic has returned to in-person services at full capacity. UCF Recognized by Exercise is Medicine for Efforts to Create Culture of Wellness on Campus Earning a Silver designation, UCF is among 156 campuses honored worldwide for efforts to create a culture of wellness. 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. Student Research Week: Inspired by ‘The Bachelor,’ UCF Student Studying Aphasia Communication sciences and disorders student Allison Conrad was inspired to study the field after learning about it from a contestant on the show. Student Research Week Kicks off With Seed Funding Program Presentations For the first two days of Student Research Week, which starts Monday, March 28, students will present on 37 active research projects. 26 Exemplary Students Awarded 2022 Order of Pegasus Awarded each spring, the Order of Pegasus is UCF’s most prestigious student honor. Student Research Week Kicks off March 28 with a Whole New Look and Feel After decades of following the same format, Research Week has been reimagined to enhance the student experience. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida