Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Hoping, Healing, Inspiring – A Collective Art Installation Events Past Event Hoping, Healing, Inspiring – A Collective Art Installation Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 28, 2022 10:00 AM - 3:30 PM America/New_York Lerner Hall, 2920 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 555 Show Map Thursday, April 28, 2022, 10 AM - 3:30 PM ET Performance by LA BRUJA 12:30 PM - 2 PM ET Join SVR as we display the collective art installation that we have created as a community over the course of the entire month of April in honor of Sexual Assault Awareness Month (SAAM). As part of this year’s theme of ‘Hope, Heal, Inspire,’ we invite you to take the time at any point during your day to stop by the installation to bear witness, honor, and reflect on the themes represented around survivorship, solidarity, compassion, defiance, and resilience as it connects to experiences and the overall issue of sexual violence. As part of the installation, we will be joined by NYC-based spoken word legend, LA BRUJA, who will perform her original work and read community members’ notes and messages to survivors. Share a message for a survivor SVR is accepting submissions for letters to survivors that will be shared anonymously at the event. Share yours by Monday, April 25. Light snacks and refreshments will be served. LA BRUJA will be accompanied by an ASL Interpreter. This event is hosted in partnership with Disability Services, The School of General Studies, the InterGreek Council, and Columbia Business School. About Caridad De La Luz aka LA BRUJA: Caridad De La Luz is a multifaceted performer known as LA BRUJA. She raps, acts, sings, hosts, recites, dances, does stand-up comedy, writes plays/poems/songs/scripts, and teaches others how to do the same. Winner of the Jerome Hill Artist Fellowship 2020-2021 and The David Prize finalist 2021, she has been one of America's leading spoken word poets for over 15 years and has received the Puerto Rican Women Legacy Award, The Edgar Allan Poe Award from The Bronx Historical Society and was honored as A Bronx Living Legend by The Bronx Music Heritage Center. She was presented with a Citation of Merit from The Bronx Borough President and named “Top 20 Puerto Rican Women Everyone Should Know”. As of January 2022, she is the Interim Executive Director of the Nuyorican Poets Cafe and has created amazing new programs and continues to offer the mainstay shows that made the cafe famous. Visit nuyorican.org and caridaddelaluz.com Follow @LaBrujaNYC IG/Twitter/TikTok Check out on youtube.com/user/caridaddelaluz Columbia University makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. Please notify us in advance if you require closed captioning, sign-language interpretation, or any other disability accommodations. Alternatively, Disability Services can be reached at 212-854-2388 and [email protected]. Contact Information Sexual Violence Response [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close