Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu All News Breadcrumb Home News from Brown News Search News Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 All Previous Years Subscribe to our weekly newsletter 2033 Results based on your selections. Science and Technology How boas save themselves from suffocation when constricting and digesting dinner April 1, 2022 Researchers from Brown University show how boa constrictors breathe with different sections of their rib cage, an adaptation that likely helped them evolve into successful predators. Read Article Open details for How boas save themselves from suffocation when constricting and digesting dinner News and Events Brown admits 2,546 students to the undergraduate Class of 2026 March 31, 2022 The University offered admission on Thursday, March 31, to prospective members of next year’s incoming class, who were selected from Brown’s largest applicant pool to date. Read Article Open details for Brown admits 2,546 students to the undergraduate Class of 2026 Health and Medicine Brown med school students elevate health care for Rhode Island’s underserved and underinsured March 30, 2022 At Providence’s Clínica Esperanza and the Rhode Island Free Clinic, student volunteers from the Warren Alpert Medical School work tirelessly to improve not only health care but the health care system. Read Article Open details for Brown med school students elevate health care for Rhode Island’s underserved and underinsured Social Sciences Brown social scientist wins prestigious Bradley Prize March 25, 2022 The Bradley Foundation’s $250,000 award to Glenn Loury, a professor at Brown, recognizes the scholar’s influential role in promoting viewpoint diversity in academia. Read Article Open details for Brown social scientist wins prestigious Bradley Prize Health and Medicine Ronald Aubert to serve as interim dean of Brown’s School of Public Health March 25, 2022 An epidemiologist with unique and varied public health experience, Aubert will serve as interim dean while Dr. Ashish Jha is on short-term leave for an assignment leading the nation’s COVID-19 response. Read Article Open details for Ronald Aubert to serve as interim dean of Brown’s School of Public Health News and Events Next-generation data storage start-up takes first-place Venture Prize March 24, 2022 Seven student teams vied for $50,000 in prize money at the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship’s Venture Prize pitch night, the fifth annual event but the first held in-person since 2019. Read Article Open details for Next-generation data storage start-up takes first-place Venture Prize News and Events Federal court dismisses claims seeking additional fee refunds in class action complaint March 23, 2022 The court ruled that Brown continued to offer services for which it charged fees, even as they took on a different form than could have been anticipated before COVID-19 forced a transition to remote learning in March 2020. Read Article Open details for Federal court dismisses claims seeking additional fee refunds in class action complaint News and Events Academic innovation leader Shankar K. Prasad to lead Brown’s School of Professional Studies as dean March 22, 2022 As the next dean of the School of Professional Studies, Prasad will oversee a portfolio of master’s degree programs for executives and a suite of flexible and innovative non-degree programs for individuals and organizations. Read Article Open details for Academic innovation leader Shankar K. Prasad to lead Brown’s School of Professional Studies as dean Science and Technology Seen and ‘herd’: Collective motion in crowds is largely determined by participants’ field of vision March 21, 2022 Researchers at Brown University developed a new model to predict human flocking behavior based on optics and other sensory data. Read Article Open details for Seen and ‘herd’: Collective motion in crowds is largely determined by participants’ field of vision Social Sciences Uncovering an epidemic: Student journalists and data scientists chronicle Rhode Island’s opioid crisis March 21, 2022 A team of Brown journalism and computer science students produced a series of stories, some published and broadcast by prominent outlets, providing new insights into the Ocean State’s opioid epidemic and its human toll. Read Article Open details for Uncovering an epidemic: Student journalists and data scientists chronicle Rhode Island’s opioid crisis Health and Medicine Celebrating in-person with family and friends, 144 physicians-to-be match to medical residencies March 18, 2022 At Match Day, members of the Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2022 were placed in medical residency programs across the country and right in Providence. Read Article Open details for Celebrating in-person with family and friends, 144 physicians-to-be match to medical residencies News and Events Academic leader and scholar Leah VanWey appointed Brown’s next dean of the faculty March 18, 2022 An accomplished administrator, researcher and teacher, VanWey will lead recruitment, retention and development of Brown faculty across the humanities, social sciences and a portfolio of physical and life sciences departments. Read Article Open details for Academic leader and scholar Leah VanWey appointed Brown’s next dean of the faculty Health and Medicine President Biden appoints Dr. Ashish K. Jha to White House role to lead nation’s COVID-19 response March 17, 2022 The dean of Brown’s School of Public Health, a globally recognized expert on pandemic preparedness and response, will take leave for a temporary assignment to serve in the critical federal government role. Read Article Open details for President Biden appoints Dr. Ashish K. Jha to White House role to lead nation’s COVID-19 response News and Events U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo at Brown: ‘We better get to work innovating’ March 15, 2022 In an Ogden lecture at Brown, the commerce secretary and former Rhode Island governor shared insights on her efforts to grow the American economy, strategically sanction Russian leadership and ease U.S. supply-chain woes. Read Article Open details for U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo at Brown: ‘We better get to work innovating’ Social Sciences Through research collaboration, Brown scholars aim to improve experiences of refugees March 15, 2022 Researchers at Brown’s Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Studies are working with the Refugee Dream Center in Providence to assess Afghan refugees’ needs and improve military-civilian partnerships across the globe. Read Article Open details for Through research collaboration, Brown scholars aim to improve experiences of refugees Health and Medicine University to celebrate impact, history of ‘50 Years of Medicine at Brown’ March 15, 2022 A kickoff event on Friday, April 29, will begin a 15-month celebration of the Warren Alpert Medical School’s evolution and its plans for the future. Read Article Open details for University to celebrate impact, history of ‘50 Years of Medicine at Brown’ News and Events Andrew Campbell to step down as Graduate School dean, return to Brown faculty March 11, 2022 After he finishes a six-year term in June, the accomplished leader who expanded enrollment, funding and student support at Brown’s Graduate School will return to teaching and research as a professor of medical science. Read Article Open details for Andrew Campbell to step down as Graduate School dean, return to Brown faculty Health and Medicine Brown researcher to lead $16M grant to explore potential cause, treatment for Alzheimer’s disease March 10, 2022 Led by principal investigator John Sedivy, a multi-university effort will build on recent discoveries about mechanisms of aging to understand causes and potential treatments for neurodegenerative diseases. Read Article Open details for Brown researcher to lead $16M grant to explore potential cause, treatment for Alzheimer’s disease News and Events Class of 2009 graduate Zack Langway to lead alumni relations at Brown March 8, 2022 With professional accomplishments in community building and more than a decade of volunteer leadership with Brown, Langway will return to College Hill to lead efforts to cultivate and sustain strong alumni relationships. Read Article Open details for Class of 2009 graduate Zack Langway to lead alumni relations at Brown Health and Medicine Powered by students, focused on patients — assisting Rhode Islanders through Connect for Health March 7, 2022 As volunteers with Lifespan’s Connect for Health program, dozens of Brown students each year link patients in need with available resources, with the ultimate goal of improving physical health and well-being. Read Article Open details for Powered by students, focused on patients — assisting Rhode Islanders through Connect for Health Science and Technology From the Lab: Kavita Ramanan puts randomness to work March 3, 2022 A professor of applied mathematics at Brown, Ramanan uses randomness as a tool to make precise predictions about complex systems ranging from statistical physics to communication networks. Read Article Open details for From the Lab: Kavita Ramanan puts randomness to work News and Events Amid crisis in Ukraine, Brown community unites to provide support, host discussions March 3, 2022 Scholars and others at Brown are joining together to provide support for Ukrainian scholars and people directly affected in the country, and to convene scholarly discussions about the unfolding war with Russia. Read Article Open details for Amid crisis in Ukraine, Brown community unites to provide support, host discussions News and Events Nobel Prize-winning Class of 1991 Ph.D. alumnus returns to Brown to discuss research in causal relationships March 2, 2022 As part of the Lemley lecture series, Brown Ph.D. graduate and Nobel Laureate Guido Imbens explained how natural experiments can be used to determine cause and effect. Read Article Open details for Nobel Prize-winning Class of 1991 Ph.D. alumnus returns to Brown to discuss research in causal relationships Health and Medicine COVID-19 has taken heavy toll on health workers and systems, Brown physician-scientist tells Congress March 2, 2022 Dr. Megan Ranney, a practicing emergency physician and academic dean of Brown’s School of Public Health, told a U.S. House committee that the nation can learn from the past to build stronger, more viable health care systems. Read Article Open details for COVID-19 has taken heavy toll on health workers and systems, Brown physician-scientist tells Congress News and Events Brown sets new $4 billion goal, extends BrownTogether fundraising campaign through 2024 March 1, 2022 Priorities for the campaign’s extension include raising funds for research and teaching in medicine, public health, engineering and the arts, as well as student financial aid, career services and Brown Athletics. Read Article Open details for Brown sets new $4 billion goal, extends BrownTogether fundraising campaign through 2024 News and Events Brown is nation’s top Fulbright-producing university, U.S. State Department data shows February 28, 2022 With 29 grants offered to students and recent alumni for the 2021-22 academic year, Brown earned the No. 1 spot as the country’s top producer of Fulbright winners, marking the fourth time the University earned the distinction. Read Article Open details for Brown is nation’s top Fulbright-producing university, U.S. State Department data shows News and Events U.S. Commerce Secretary, former R.I. governor Gina Raimondo to visit Brown on March 15 February 28, 2022 In the Ogden Memorial Lecture, Raimondo will share ideas on how the United States can continue to compete globally by creating an economy that works for all Americans. Read Article Open details for U.S. Commerce Secretary, former R.I. governor Gina Raimondo to visit Brown on March 15 Health and Medicine Suspending syringe services programs will result in an increase of HIV infections, study finds February 28, 2022 Using a simulation modeling approach, Brown researchers estimate that closing syringe services programs, even for one year, will cause cases of HIV to rise. Read Article Open details for Suspending syringe services programs will result in an increase of HIV infections, study finds University Initiatives Brown launches online-only master’s degree in public health February 23, 2022 An innovative new version of Brown’s MPH program, delivered exclusively online, will expand access to a top public health education for learners nationally and around the world. Read Article Open details for Brown launches online-only master’s degree in public health News and Events $10 million gift to expand Brown scholarship on South Asia February 23, 2022 With support from Parag and Usha Saxena, the renamed Saxena Center for Contemporary South Asia at Brown’s Watson Institute will grow its research, teaching, public policy and programming. Read Article Open details for $10 million gift to expand Brown scholarship on South Asia Science and Technology Brown convenes scholars to envision the future of home-based health tech February 22, 2022 With a massive shift under way toward more home-based health care delivery, more than 90 medical professionals and technologists gathered virtually to explore the challenges and opportunities that change presents. Read Article Open details for Brown convenes scholars to envision the future of home-based health tech News and Events $10 million gift from Reed Hastings, Patty Quillin to bolster 58-year-old Brown-Tougaloo Partnership February 21, 2022 The generous gift from Netflix CEO Reed Hastings and producer Patty Quillin will provide much-needed financial support to students from Tougaloo College, an HBCU in Mississippi, including many who come to Brown. Read Article Open details for $10 million gift from Reed Hastings, Patty Quillin to bolster 58-year-old Brown-Tougaloo Partnership Social Sciences Brown sociologist weighs in on tensions at the Russia-Ukraine border February 16, 2022 Professor of Sociology Michael D. Kennedy provided historical background on Russia’s relationship with Ukraine and explained how the current crisis could unleash major conflicts across the globe. Read Article Open details for Brown sociologist weighs in on tensions at the Russia-Ukraine border Science and Technology Brown physics faculty member earns 2022 Sloan Fellowship February 15, 2022 Andrey Gromov, an assistant professor of physics, has been awarded a prestigious Sloan Fellowship for his research into exotic quantum states of matter that could enable quantum computing technology. Read Article Open details for Brown physics faculty member earns 2022 Sloan Fellowship Science and Technology Psyche, the iron giant of asteroids, may be less iron than researchers thought February 14, 2022 Scientists have thought that the asteroid Psyche could be a big ball of pure iron, but new research suggests it’s likely harboring a hidden rocky component. Read Article Open details for Psyche, the iron giant of asteroids, may be less iron than researchers thought News and Events Brown Corporation approves lowest tuition increase, highest employee salary pool in last decade February 14, 2022 Brown’s governing body approved a 2.85% increase in tuition and fees for 2022-23, a 4.25% salary increase pool for faculty and staff, and bonuses for 4,600 employees; the Corporation also elected its next vice chancellor. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves lowest tuition increase, highest employee salary pool in last decade Health and Medicine At community health clinic in Providence, improving access and care for LGBTQ+ patients February 11, 2022 Founded by Brown faculty members Dr. Amy Nunn and Dr. Philip Chan, Open Door Health is lowering barriers to health care by providing culturally congruent LGBTQ+-focused care. Read Article Open details for At community health clinic in Providence, improving access and care for LGBTQ+ patients Arts and Humanities Immersive exhibition at Brown’s Bell Gallery reimagines Indigenous response to James Cook’s voyages February 9, 2022 Created by Maōri artist Lisa Reihana, the video installation “In Pursuit of Venus [infected]” adds nuance and Indigenous perspective to the first encounters between South Pacific islanders and European seafarers. Read Article Open details for Immersive exhibition at Brown’s Bell Gallery reimagines Indigenous response to James Cook’s voyages News and Events Senior history, public policy concentrator to represent Brown on ‘Jeopardy!’ college championship February 8, 2022 A nightly viewer of the iconic trivia show since childhood, Brown senior Max Niles will try his hand starting Friday, Feb. 11, competing against 35 students from across the nation. Read Article Open details for Senior history, public policy concentrator to represent Brown on ‘Jeopardy!’ college championship Brown professor wins CERF Medical Engineering Prize for ‘Braingate+SoftRobotics’ project February 8, 2022 Dr. Leigh Hochberg is part of an award-winning team that is combining soft robotic devices with brain-computer interface technology to help people with ALS. Read Article Open details for Brown professor wins CERF Medical Engineering Prize for ‘Braingate+SoftRobotics’ project Health and Medicine In Medicaid managed care plans, minority group members report lesser care than white enrollees February 8, 2022 A study led by Brown University researchers found significant racial and ethnic disparities in patient care experience among enrollees of Medicaid managed care plans. Read Article Open details for In Medicaid managed care plans, minority group members report lesser care than white enrollees Science and Technology For physics Ph.D. student, exploring the unknown universe and mentoring the next generation February 7, 2022 An active voice for women in physics, Brown graduate student Farrah Simpson will conduct research related to the Large Hadron Collider, the world’s most powerful particle accelerator, as a 2022 Graduate Scholar at Fermilab. Read Article Open details for For physics Ph.D. student, exploring the unknown universe and mentoring the next generation Science and Technology Researchers use tiny magnetic swirls to generate true random numbers February 7, 2022 Skyrmions, tiny magnetic anomalies that arise in two-dimensional materials, can be used to generate true random numbers useful in cryptography and probabilistic computing. Read Article Open details for Researchers use tiny magnetic swirls to generate true random numbers Health and Medicine Brown researchers develop new model to investigate fibrosis treatments without use of animals February 1, 2022 A new 3D connective tissue model gives researchers a sophisticated tool to understand the underlying mechanisms of connective tissue disorders and test potential treatments. Read Article Open details for Brown researchers develop new model to investigate fibrosis treatments without use of animals News and Events Forced to flee Kabul last August, 15 young Afghan women find an academic home at Brown January 27, 2022 Brown is hosting a cohort of students from the Asian University for Women and Ghalib University, all of whom left Afghanistan abruptly in the wake of the Taliban’s return to power less than six months ago. Read Article Open details for Forced to flee Kabul last August, 15 young Afghan women find an academic home at Brown News and Events Faculty at Brown earn prestigious awards, distinctions January 27, 2022 From late 2020 to early 2022, many of Brown’s faculty received prominent awards, fellowships and other recognition for their path-breaking scholarship and bold ideas. Read Article Open details for Faculty at Brown earn prestigious awards, distinctions News and Events Brown extends test-optional policy for 2022-23 undergraduate admission cycle January 26, 2022 In recognition of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on prospective students and their families, the University has extended for the second time its policy making the submission of standardized test scores optional. Read Article Open details for Brown extends test-optional policy for 2022-23 undergraduate admission cycle News and Events Five Brown faculty elected AAAS fellows January 26, 2022 Faculty members from mathematics, neuroscience, medical science and chemistry were honored for significant and lasting contributions to their fields. Read Article Open details for Five Brown faculty elected AAAS fellows Science and Technology To research addiction, Brown senior Eve Glenn is combining empathy with cutting-edge brain science January 25, 2022 After witnessing challenges faced by childhood friends, Glenn is researching the neurobiological underpinnings of alcohol and substance abuse disorders with the goal of enabling more effective treatments. Read Article Open details for To research addiction, Brown senior Eve Glenn is combining empathy with cutting-edge brain science Health and Medicine A faith-based approach to ensuring Alzheimer’s research applies to all Rhode Islanders January 20, 2022 Brown University researchers are partnering with faith-based leaders in Providence to increase participation of Black community members in Alzheimer’s prevention studies. Read Article Open details for A faith-based approach to ensuring Alzheimer’s research applies to all Rhode Islanders Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … Next Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search All News Open details for All News Bookmark this Page