Admissions - Where to Begin your Graduate Application - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Graduate School Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Graduate School COVID-19 Updates Prospective/Admitted Students Current Students Admissions Where to Begin How to Apply Programs and Colleges Online Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Dual Degree Programs Accelerated Pathway Program Admission Contacts and Deadlines International Students International Applicants English Language Proficiency Transcript Information International Admitted Students I-20 and Financial Backing Information GRE/GMAT Waiver Check Application Status Admitted Students Academics Graduate Programs Masters Programs Doctoral Programs Online Programs Graduate Certificates Dual-Degree Programs Accelerated Pathway Programs Doctoral Characteristics Graduate Program Review Academic Advising Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Student Handbook Thesis & Dissertation Outstanding Thesis Award Outstanding Dissertation Award Dissertation Accelerator CIRTL Co-curricular PD Registration International Students Where to Begin How to Apply International Applicants English Language Proficiency Transcript Information International Admitted Students I-20 and Financial Backing Information Graduate Funding How to Fund Graduate School Tuition & Fees Forms & Procedures Events Graduate Appreciation Week Calendar Graduate Orientation Graduate School Fair 3MT Ombuds About Graduate School Team Graduate & Professional Studies Committee (GPSC) Graduate & Professional Students Association (GPSA) Contact Us Contact Us FAQ's UH Home UH Graduate School Admissions Admissions Page contents: Programs & Degrees Graduate Application International Applicants Funding Graduate School Where to Begin From academic growth to professional development, The University of Houston Graduate School is committed to providing you the resources required for success. Here, you can earn a degree, recognized both nationally and internationally, from an institution that has established itself as a leader in promoting academic advancement. Experienced faculty within each program will allow you to form meaningful connections, broaden your expertise, and discover your passion. Here, you begin your future. Request More Information Programs & Degrees Across 150+ graduate programs, ranging from Aerospace Engineering to World Cultures and Literature, you will find a degree that will pave the path for the career you’ve envisioned. Joining UH means becoming an integral part of a vibrant and diverse community of exceptional scholars and extraordinary individuals. To learn more about the programs, certificates, and degrees you can earn at The University of Houston, visit the links below. Architecture & Design Arts Business Education Engineering Hotel & Restaurant Management Law Liberal Arts & Social Sciences Natural Sciences & Mathematics Nursing Optometry Pharmacy Public Affairs Social Work Technology Graduate Application Once you’ve chosen your program, the next step toward joining UH is to submit your graduate application. While completing your application, you should begin to assemble official transcripts, tests scores, and any additional documents requested by the program for which you are applying. Necessary documents and deadlines vary based on your program. To find your step by step instructions for applying, click the link below. How to Apply International Students The University of Houston is proud of its commitment to diversity and welcomes applicants from across the globe. Last year, UH graduate programs received applications from students representing more than 100 different countries. In addition to completing an application, international students should expect to submit additional test scores, such as the TOEFL or IELTS. Minimum test scores accepted may vary by program, and scores should be submitted by the testing agency. For more information on international admissions requirements, visit the link below. International Students Funding Graduate School While attending Graduate School at The University of Houston, you will enjoy an affordable tuition and a low cost of attendance. Additionally, Houston boasts one of the lowest costs of living of any urban area in the United States. Funding through scholarships, grants, and fellowships are available to assist you in paying for your academic and living expenses. Explore the links below for more information on funding your graduate experience. Graduate Funding Tuition & Fees Room & Board 4302 University Dr, Rm 102 Houston, TX 77204-2012 (713) 743-5284 A - Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Maps Careers at UH Directory Emergency Information Get Help Health Center Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies