Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Horticulture (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Green isn't just the color of chlorophyll anymore. Today it's an adjective for economics. Green now colors the way many industries demonstrate sustainability and eco-awareness. And plants are at the root of the green movement, making our world both healthy and beautiful. From greenhouses to gardens and laboratories to landscapes, a horticulture degree at Clemson blends science, business, artistry and communications to produce graduates who are highly marketable. As a horticulture major, you might find yourself getting a little dirty in our expansive greenhouse complex as you learn about root physiology. You might choose to cultivate your knowledge of sustainable crop production at our student-run organic farm. Some of our students even branch out and discover the opportunities available in arboriculture through the extensive variety of tree species here on campus and in the S.C. Botanical Garden. FAST FACTS State-of-the-art greenhouses provide students with ample space for learning skills such as propagation or plant production. Clemson's campus is home to an award-winning arboriculture team that serves as a model for landscape installation and maintenance. Beautiful and diverse, the South Carolina Botanical Garden is just off the main campus. Clemson's Musser Fruit Farm is home to cutting-edge genetic research finding ideal varieties of fruit trees for various growing regions. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Whether you are interested in growing your own business or developing drought-resistant plant cultivars, the courses you take as a horticulture major will prepare you well for a green future. The degree curriculum is extremely flexible and allows you to select courses that fit your goals and interests. This flexibility is what separates Clemson's horticulture major from the competition. Freshman year, you'll be exposed to foundational science course work in biology and chemistry. These courses - along with math and English - build the foundation for upper-level classes in plant biology, landscape plants, plant propagation and soil science. The beauty of freshman year is that it isn't just general education. The Intro to Horticulture class is a favorite among the students. With the flexible curriculum, you'll be able to choose from a long list of related course work that includes classes such as field botany, ecology, landscape design, turfgrass physiology, urban tree care, vegetable crops, genetics, insect diversity and plant disease. Curriculum Horticulture, B.S. Popular Minors Agricultural Business Management Agricultural Mechanization and Business Business Administration Entomology Environmental Science and Policy Plant and Environmental Sciences Urban Forestry Similar Majors Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Landscape Architecture (B.L.A.) Plant and Environmental Sciences (B.S.) Turfgrass (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM In a major like horticulture, students must leave the confines of the classroom. The landscapes of Clemson's campus offer plant diversity, and professors utilize campus resources as well as the nearby South Carolina Botanical Garden, 17,500-acre Clemson Experimental Forest, Walker Golf Course and the arboretum. Compete Each year, horticulture students travel to the PLANET Annual Student Career Days competition, which brings together U.S. college students to compete in events pertaining to the landscape industry. Plant Sale Each spring, students in the Horticulture Club open up the greenhouses to sell unique and distinctive varieties of flowers, succulents, vegetable crops and hanging baskets. Proceeds support student travel expenses. Botanical Garden Clemson is home to the diverse 295-acre S.C. Botanical Garden, which blends natural landscapes, display gardens and miles of streams and nature trails. The gardens include an American Hosta Society Display Garden and a 70-acre arboretum.Learn More » Internships Each student is required to complete an internship to learn on-the-job skills that support the classroom experience. Placement support is available through the college's Student Services Center. Sustainability An on-campus garden was designed and implemented to demonstrate sustainable garden practices using native plantings, innovative installation and maintenances practices. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Horticulture Club AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Landscape Supervisor Yellowstone Landscape Horticulture Assistant Coastal Bloomers Sustainability Coordinator Sierra Nevada Brewery Horticulturalist Augusta National Golf Club Extension Associate University of Maryland Cooperative Extension RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.Arch. Landscape Architecture University of Georgia M.S. Plant and Environmental Sciences Clemson University M.S. Entomology Clemson University COMMON CAREER AREAS Landscape Design, Construction and Maintenance Residential Design Landscape Construction Landscape Maintenance Specialty Installation (Irrigation Systems, Ponds, Rockscapes, Lighting) Sales and Contracting Arboriculture Turfgrass Science and Management Golf Course Management Sport Turf Management Sod Production Residential Lawn Installation and Management Irrigation Systems Research Public Horticulture Adult and Youth Education Urban Horticulture Plant Collections Urban Forestry Horticulture Therapy Communications Management Plant Sciences, Horticulture and Biotechnology Greenhouse and Nursery Management Vegetable and Fruit Production Plant Biotechnology Plant Breeding and Genetics Agronomy Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Madison Cutts Coordinator of Student Recruitment mcutts@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Horticulture (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Landscape Architecture (B.L.A.) Plant and Environmental Sciences (B.S.) Turfgrass (B.S.)