Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Make a Gift CBE Directory CBE Department About Iowa State Chemical and Biological Engineering Mission and Vision Accreditation Diversity and Inclusion Faculty/Staff Graduate Seminar Series Advisory Council CBE Hall of Fame CBE Department Documents Prospective Students What is Chemical and Biological Engineering? Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Core Concepts in Chemical Engineering Current Students Advising Undergraduate FAQs Registration Information CH E Electives Guides and Handbooks Student Forms Student Organizations Career and Study Opportunities Internships and Co-ops Learning Communities, Centers and Help Rooms International Study Undergraduate Research/Independent Study Bachelor’s/Master’s Concurrent Degree Programs Graduation University Honors Program CBE Feedback Research Faculty Research Pages Research Funding Awards Recent Faculty Publications Research Areas Advanced and Nanostructured Materials Biorenewables Catalysis and Reaction Engineering Computational Fluid Dynamics Health Care Technology and Biomedical Engineering Renewable Energy Research Brochure Facilities Collaborative Research Centers The Ames Laboratory Bioeconomy Institute at ISU ISU Plant Sciences Institute National Animal Disease Center NSF Engineering Research Center for Biorenewable Chemicals BioMaP REU Undergraduate Research Program Alumni Alumni News Alumni Awards Make A Gift Safety Biological Materials and Processes Research Experience for Undergraduates (BioMaP REU) The 2022 BioMAP REU program will be held May 31-August 5 About BioMaP REU The Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering at Iowa State University hosts the Biological Materials and Processes Experience for Undergraduates (BioMaP REU) summer research experience for undergraduate students. This opportunity is open to U.S. citizens and permanent residents. The program creates novel research experiences for undergrad students from around the country in the areas of biological materials and processes. Students are active members of interdisciplinary groups and interact with faculty, post-doctoral researchers, graduate students and industry. Students may also participate in cohort experiences such as joint seminars and meetings. To complement the research experience and have students get to know each other, several social and recreational events are organized. Students take advantage of life in Ames, Iowa, which was named Best College Town in America by 24-7wallst.com in 2019. In addition to baccalaureate-track students, Iowa State welcomes community college students from any state to apply to this program. In addition to this web site, more information about the Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering can be found on the department’s Facebook and Twitter (@ISU_CBE) pages. Contact Information BioMaP REU Chemical and Biological Engineering Iowa State University 618 Bissell Road Ames, IA 50011-1098 515 294-6533 biomap@iastate.edu Quick Links BioMaP Home Application Research Projects Program Flyer Facilities Mentors Past BioMaP REUs Other Resources Iowa State CBE Iowa State College of Engineering Iowa State Campus Map Apply Now CoE A-Z Index Safety Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering 2114 Sweeney Hall 618 Bissell Road Ames, Iowa 50011-1098 cbe@iastate.edu (515) 294-7642 phone Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...