Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Special Education MEd You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Special Education MEd Apply Visit Request More Info Special Education MEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Online Program Option Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Education in Special Education The Master of Education (MEd) in Special Education program in the College of Education and Human Development focuses on evidence-based, instructional practices and their implementation in the classroom; recognizing and improving the impact of sociocultural factors on the education of children with disabilities; preventative approaches that de-emphasize labels and traditional diagnostic categories to support improved teaching and learning; and inclusive practices in schools and society. This graduate program offers students the option of concentrating on autism spectrum disorders, mild disabilities and severe disabilities—educational areas of great need, particularly in urban centers like Philadelphia. Applicants to the Special Education MEd who are interested in earning certification through a full-time, urban-focused STEM teacher residency may also explore Temple’s Teacher Residency program. Who Might be Interested? Temple’s Special Education MEd program is designed for students interested in earning their initial Pennsylvania teaching certification as well as students who have already earned teacher certification and want to pursue additional certification and a master's in special education (PreK through grade 12). Classes & Curriculum The Special Education MEd degree program consists of 37 credits, or 10 courses, plus a capstone and a supervised teaching experience. See a full list of required and elective courses. Delivery Method Students can complete the Special Education MEd on Temple University's Main Campus in Philadelphia or, beginning Fall 2021, choose a fully online program option. In-person classes are scheduled to accommodate working professionals. The online program consists of a combination of asynchronous online learning and onsite fieldwork. Both delivery methods can be pursued full- or part-time, and students have up to 5 years to complete the program. Related Graduate Degrees Applied Behavior Analysis MSEd Early Childhood Education and Special Education MEd Education PhD with a concentration in Special Education Related Graduate Certificates Disability Studies Applied Behavior Analysis Autism Endorsement Student Clubs & Organizations Find peer support and leadership opportunities while tackling the challenges of your program by joining organizations such as the ones below. The Graduate Student Organization of the College of Education and Human Development runs community-based events like school supply drives as well as professional development workshops and activities. The organization upholds a strong commitment to social justice, regularly organizing political events and engaging in projects with community partners. The Temple University Graduate Students Association, a student employee union, maintains positive working lives and conditions for graduate student assistants. Program Contact Jason Travers, associate professor in the Teaching and Learning Department, is the faculty program coordinator for the Special Education MEd. Email: jason.travers@temple.edu Our Advisors Individual faculty advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate academic advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to ensure your smooth passage through the program. Program Accreditation The Special Education MEd program is approved as a teacher certification program by the Pennsylvania Department of Education. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-SPED-MED Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Special Education MEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Online Program Option Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info