Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Computational Data Science MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Computational Data Science MS Apply Request More Info Computational Data Science MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Computational Data Science Extract knowledge from big data with the Master of Science in Computational Data Science in Temple’s College of Science and Technology. You can enroll in the 30-credit-hour degree program as a part- or full-time student. Once you graduate, you’ll be prepared to fill the growing demand for data scientists in a range of industries from education to government. The program will also ready you for further graduate studies, research positions or teaching careers. As a student, you’ll dig deep into computational analytics and explore techniques and theories steeped in computer science, mathematics and statistics. Throughout the program, you’ll learn how to analyze large quantities of data and discover the knowledge necessary to fuel cutting-edge developments. Data science is used to make complex decisions in a wide range of data-rich domains, such as biomedical science, defense and security, education, engineering, geoscience, physical science, and social science. You’ll gain a strong foundation in algorithmic, computational and statistical thinking as well as the inner-workings of computer systems. Toward the end of the program, you will have the opportunity to pursue topics related to your academic and professional interests with the three-credit Master’s Project or the more advanced six-credit Master’s Thesis. Classes & Curriculum The Computational Data Science MS program is a 30-credit degree culminating in the Master’s Project. Required courses you will take during your studies include Design and Analysis of Algorithms, Machine Learning, Operating Systems, and Principles of Data Management. Learn more about Computational Data Science MS courses. Related Graduate Degrees Bioinformatics PSM Bioinnovation PSM Biotechnology PSM Computer and Information Science PhD Computer Science MS Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM Information Science and Technology MS Related Graduate Certificates Computer Science Certificate Scientific Writing Certificate Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and research opportunities. The graduate advisor for Computational Data Science MS is Tony Hughes, associate professor in the Department of Computer and Information Sciences. Phone: 215-204-7910 Email: anthony.hughes@temple.edu Program Contact Contact the following faculty for more information about the Computational Data Science MS. Chiu Chiang Tan is an assistant professor and graduate chair of the Department of Computer and Information Sciences. Phone: 215-204-6847 Email: chiu.tan@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Computer and Information Sciences degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. the Association for Computing Machinery, which promotes the academic, professional and social development of students interested in computer technology. Association for Computing Machinery for Women, an organization that provides support and advocacy for women pursuing careers in technology. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. TU Dev, a community of students with a mutual interest in software design that fosters discussions on emerging trends and technologies in the field. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-CDS-MS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Computational Data Science MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info