Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Registrar Transcripts *Accordion and tab elements may not be compatible with all versions of Internet Explorer web browsers. If you experience difficulty, please upgrade to the latest version of Chrome or Firefox. An Official Transcript is the official record of a student's work, showing courses taken and grades achieved. It is a complete copy of the student's academic record at the time it is issued, including undergraduate and/or graduate coursework while enrolled at Clemson University. Partial transcripts are not provided. Transcripts contain confidential information and will not be released without the student's signature. Request a Transcript General Information Delivery Options Notary Services Request a Transcript Transcript requests are made via Parchment 〉 Available to all current and former students 〉 Flat fee of $15.48 per transcript Mail-In requests are made via the Transcript Request Form (PDF) 〉 $12.00 per transcript, check/money order payable to Clemson University 〉 Major credit/debit cards are only accepted with in-office payment 〉 Mail transcript request to: Transcript Office 104 Sikes Hall Clemson, SC 29634-5125 〉 Third Parties must use the mail-in option Additional transcript details are included in the FAQ. If you have questions, please call our office 864-656-2185. General Information Official Transcripts bear the University seal and Registrar's signature and are enclosed in an envelope sealed with a University Official's signature. However, an official transcript becomes unofficial if opened and/or forwarded from a PDF to another recipient. 〉 An Unofficial Transcript is only available to current students via iROAR. 〉 Requests cannot be made by phone or email. Transcripts will not be faxed. 〉 Requests for official transcripts are not processed for students with outstanding financial obligations. 〉 No transcripts are processed, available for pickup, or mailed on days the University is closed—see Holiday Calendar. Clemson Transcripts 104 Sikes Hall Clemson, SC 29634-5125 8:00 — 4:30 (M-F) Email Transcripts 864-656-2185 Additional transcript details are included in the FAQ. Transcript Delivery Options Electronic Exchange/Electronic PDF for Faster Service Offered only through Parchment Select destination from search field or enter your own email/destination Normally delivered in 1-2 business days Please Note: Transcripts become unofficial if forwarded from your personal email. Check with the recipient on how they will accept transcripts Mailed via USPS Please allow processing time of 2-4 business days prior to mailing. Mailing Fees Delivery Charge Standard Mail No extra fee Express (1-2 days) U.S. Only $26.95 Priority (2-3 days) U.S. Only $7.95 International Express Canada/Mexico $56.45 All Other Countries $70.95 Pick Up in Office Pick up in 104 Sikes Hall. Please allow processing time of 2 business days prior to pick-up. Transcripts are only issued in the student's name and only released to that student unless written permission is given for another individual to pick up the transcript on their behalf. A photo ID is required for pick-ups. No notification is sent to indicate when transcripts are mailed or ready for pick-up. Additional transcript details are included in the FAQ. Notary Services Notary Services may be requested for Clemson University Transcripts but must be requested in person or by mail. Transcripts requested through Parchment will not be notarized. A notary fee of $10.00 per copy, in addition to the $12.00 per copy transcript fee, must accompany the Transcript Request Form (PDF) . Requests will be completed within 3 - 5 business days upon receipt of payment. Request a Transcript Request a Transcript Transcript requests are made via Parchment 〉 Available to all current and former students 〉 Flat fee of $15.48 per transcript Mail-In requests are made via the Transcript Request Form (PDF) 〉 $12.00 per transcript, check/money order payable to Clemson University 〉 Major credit/debit cards are only accepted with in-office payment 〉 Mail transcript request to: Transcript Office 104 Sikes Hall Clemson, SC 29634-5125 〉 Third Parties must use the mail-in option Additional transcript details are included in the FAQ. If you have questions, please call our office 864-656-2185. General Information General Information Official Transcripts bear the University seal and Registrar's signature and are enclosed in an envelope sealed with a University Official's signature. However, an official transcript becomes unofficial if opened and/or forwarded from a PDF to another recipient. 〉 An Unofficial Transcript is only available to current students via iROAR. 〉 Requests cannot be made by phone or email. Transcripts will not be faxed. 〉 Requests for official transcripts are not processed for students with outstanding financial obligations. 〉 No transcripts are processed, available for pickup, or mailed on days the University is closed—see Holiday Calendar. Clemson Transcripts 104 Sikes Hall Clemson, SC 29634-5125 8:00 — 4:30 (M-F) Email Transcripts 864-656-2185 Additional transcript details are included in the FAQ. Delivery Options Delivery Options Electronic Exchange/Electronic PDF for Faster Service Offered only through Parchment Select destination from search field or enter your own email/destination Normally delivered in 1-2 business days Please Note: Transcripts become unofficial if forwarded from your personal email. Check with the recipient on how they will accept transcripts Mailed via USPS Please allow processing time of 2-4 business days prior to mailing. Mailing Fees Delivery Charge Standard Mail No extra fee Express (1-2 days) U.S. Only $26.95 Priority (2-3 days) U.S. Only $7.95 International Express Canada/Mexico $56.45 All Other Countries $70.95 Pick Up in Office Pick up in 104 Sikes Hall. Please allow processing time of 2 business days prior to pick-up. Transcripts are only issued in the student's name and only released to that student unless written permission is given for another individual to pick up the transcript on their behalf. A photo ID is required for pick-ups. No notification is sent to indicate when transcripts are mailed or ready for pick-up. Additional transcript details are included in the FAQ. Notary Services Notary Services Notary Services may be requested for Clemson University Transcripts but must be requested in person or by mail. Transcripts requested through Parchment will not be notarized. A notary fee of $10.00 per copy, in addition to the $12.00 per copy transcript fee, must accompany the Transcript Request Form (PDF) . Requests will be completed within 3 - 5 business days upon receipt of payment. Opens in a new window Home Academic Calendars Academic Catalogs Graduation VA Educational Benefits Students Registration Student Records Transcripts Name Changes Academic Forgiveness Verifications Course Substitution Academic Program Change Transferring Credits Admittance Examinations Degree Works Training Materials Faculty and Staff Reg Coordinators Forms FAQ Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram