Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Research SSI Subsea Systems Institute Stewarding Ecosystems. Sustaining Industry. The Subsea Systems Institute (SSI) is a collaborative research center between the University of Houston, Rice University and the Johnson Space Center (NASA) dedicated to the study and development of technology for safe and sustainable offsore energy exploration and production. Continue to SSI Objectives Positively impact offshore safety and bring the best available technology and risk mitigation practices to the Gulf of Mexico. Provide unbiased third-party validation and establishment of best practices to build public trust in the sustainable and safe offshore drilling and production operations in the Gulf of Mexico region and beyond. Attract and retain talent for jobs and investments in the local, state and national economy and to reinforce Houston and the state of Texas's reputation as the Energy Capital of the World. Responding to Tragedy The Deepwater Horizon explosion in 2010 left 11 of its crew members dead and spilled more than 3 million barrels of oil into the Gulf of Mexico. The catastrophic event spurred the launch of the Subsea Systems Institute and continues to guide its mission to improve the safety and sustainability of offshore oil and gas exploration and development. Read More Featured Stories SSI Director discusses new initiative with Houston Chronicle Ramanan Krishnamoorti, UH's chief energy officer and director of the Subsea Systems Institute, discusses the new research, funded by a $1.2M grant, to detect oil and gas explosions. Researchers Study Deepwater Gas Formation to Prevent Accidents A team of researchers from the University of Houston is working with the oil industry to develop new ways to predict when an offshore drilling rig is at risk for a potentially catastrophic accident. The project grew out of discussions between the International Association of Drilling Contractors and the Subsea Systems Institute, SSI Launches Digital Upstream Project The Subsea Systems Institute announces that, in partnership with Endeavor Management and World Oil, it will sponsor an industry-based initiative focused on adapting the broad area of digitalization to the upstream oil and gas industry. UH Selected to Lead Offshore Energy Research Center The Subsea Systems Institute, announced by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, will be funded by the RESTORE Act (Resources and Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities and Revived Economies of the Gulf Coast States), resulting from the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies