Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search Ways to give Cox School of Business Fueling the future Fueling the future Building business leaders SMU is blazing a trail into the next era of business education. We have undertaken a two-year, $140 million renovation and expansion project to provide the facilities needed to train students for an ever-more collaborative and technologically integrated world. Enter our virtual experience to experience the new classrooms and collaborative spaces in our future facilities. Launch virtual experience Fueling the future Thanks to a community of donors who gave more than $100 million during the first phase of the project, we celebrated the groundbreaking of the Cox School renovation and expansion project on May 6, 2022. Check out this video to learn how our facilities contribute to our overarching vision to foster educational distinction, industry research and business leadership on the Hilltop. A foundation for excellence Through the renovation and expansion of its facilities, the Cox School will inspire students, welcome visitors and promote new ways of approaching the Cox School’s unique opportunities and thought-provoking challenges during its second 100 years. We invite you to join our illustrious group of supporters in taking SMU’s enterprising spirit out into the world to benefit current and future generations. Give now We thank the donors who make it possible Many donors have already invested in the future of business education on the Hilltop. Their contributions to the Cox School of Business renovation and expansion project will ignite excellence in our students and inspire innovation on the Hilltop for generations to come. View current donors List below as of April 28, 2022 × Browse or use the search box to find donors by name or the last two digits of their class year. Name Group Last_Name Group_Number Close yDsvZUYDNrs Video Explore the future facilities Click an image to enlarge. DAVID B. MILLER BUSINESS QUADRANGLE The principal name for the Cox School’s renovated and expanded facilities, increasing the school’s footprint by 32% and encompassing the existing Fincher, Crow and Maguire buildings; the new Bolin-Bridwell, Shaddock, Sheffield and Southeast halls; and Fincher’s new Heppner Family Commons, as well as the renovated outdoor Plaza and the Katy and Kyle Miller Courtyard. Sheffield Hall Located in the southwest corner of the Cox School quad, Sheffield Hall will house the Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) program, the Brierley Institute for Customer Engagement and the JCPenney Center for Retail Excellence, offering modern classrooms designed for collaboration and data-focused problem-solving. Bolin-Bridwell Hall Located in the school’s northwest corner, Bolin-Bridwell Hall will offer a learning environment that mirrors the evolving workplace, using leading-edge technology to build students’ data fluency and act as the home for the Bridwell Institute for Economic Freedom and the Folsom Institute for Real Estate. Heppner Family Commons The central hub of the Cox School will provide students and faculty with dynamic, open spaces to spark discussion, promote collaboration and encourage a “9 a.m. to 9 p.m.” environment where new ideas can be shared. Shaddock Hall Shaddock Hall, in the school’s northeast corner, will foster educational excellence through dedicated spaces for learning, research and collaboration, including the Reading Commons, Academic Affairs and the Clyde/Murphy USA Boardroom. Southeast Hall The new building in the school’s southeast corner will provide students, faculty, staff and visitors with spaces for collaboration and community, featuring the Cox School’s new Bistro, the Business Leadership Center and the South Overlook Lobby, as well as a 32-person seminar room and office spaces. Crum Family Auditorium This expansive space will serve as home to guest lectures, academic presentations and visiting corporate partners with seating for an audience of up to 400, making it one of the largest auditoriums on SMU’s campus. Duda Family Business Library A specialized library located on the lower level near the Behavioral Science Lab will offer career preparedness programs and cutting-edge technology along with resources for in-depth research in real estate, marketing, risk management and operations management, among other topics. Katy and Kyle Miller Courtyard A sprawling, revamped outdoor space in the heart of the SMU campus and Cox School promises collaborative discourse, thought-provoking instruction and engaging events in an airy, open environment centrally connecting the school’s numerous facilities. Bistro A crucial space for productivity and collaboration, the Bistro will support a “9 a.m. to 9 p.m.” environment in the neighboring Commons, offering faculty and students quality food options and expanded hours to fuel academic activity. Career Management Center An expansive, centrally located, 6,600-square-foot center dedicated to the development and career advancement of Cox School students will include a kitchen; multiple changing rooms for job interviews; and 12 dedicated meeting rooms for interviews with corporate partners, company information sessions, career coaching, resume-building assistance, career workshops and cultivated networking events. GRADUATE ADMISSIONS SUITE An expansive 3,620-square-foot suite on the third floor will be centrally located overlooking the Katy and Kyle Miller Courtyard and adjacent to the Cooper Terrace. The suite will be home to the admissions offices for the Cox School’s growing graduate programs. PLAZA An expansive outdoor gathering space between Bolin-Bridwell Hall and Sheffield Hall will have room for expanded foot traffic, sitting areas for student collaboration and direct access to the sprawling Katy and Kyle Miller Courtyard. COOPER TERRACE The Cooper Terrace is a rooftop event space that will be designed to take advantage of the North Texas seasons for outdoor events, receptions and academic gatherings. The Cooper Terrace will overlook the Turner Centennial Quadrangle and Crain Family Centennial Promenade and offer striking views of SMU’s campus. Dean’s Suite At the epicenter of Cox School of Business operations, the suite will house the dean’s office and his administrative team as well as the JPMorgan Chase Parlor. The inviting and functional space will support collaborations with industry partners and Dallas leadership representatives, while still being available to the school’s faculty, staff and students. CLYDE/MURPHY USA BOARDROOM A premier second-floor space, the school's only conference room will offer an expansive view of the new hub of Cox School, the Heppner Family Commons. The Clyde/Murphy USA Boardroom will facilitate seating for up to 20, allowing for deliberation and collaboration among colleagues and valued University partners. Center/Institute Suites Dedicated spaces for each of the Cox School’s 10 institutes and centers – including the Brierley Institute for Customer Engagement, the Bridwell Institute for Economic Freedom, the Caruth Institute for Entrepreneurship, the EnCap Investments and LCM Group Alternative Asset Management Center/Don Jackson Center for Financial Studies, the Robert and Courtyard Margaret Folsom Institute for Real Estate, the Maguire Energy Institute and the Albert W. Niemi Center for Economic Growth and Leadership Development, among others – will provide unique, dynamic facilities to support the students of Cox School and SMU, including administrative offices, meeting rooms and spaces to host workshops and presentations. MCGUIRE FAMILY SUITE FOR BBA ADMISSIONS, ACADEMIC ADVISING AND RECORDS A hub for BBA student advancement and recruitment will include offices for undergraduate administration and records. The suite will also include spaces for academic advising and assistance. COMMONS OVERLOOK This open, inviting expanse between the Commons and the EY Gallery will provide sweeping views of the Commons and Katy and Kyle Miller Courtyard, easy access via a striking, central stairway and additional study spaces and collaboration areas. DISTANCE LEARNING LAB A 2,000-square-foot suite featuring state-of-the-art spaces for various forms of online instruction will house synchronous studio-style classrooms with advanced recording equipment and video walls capable of displaying up to 35 remote students for more immersive instruction, as well as studios for filming on-demand lectures, with real-time editing capabilities. BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE LAB A 1,700-square-foot lab prominently located near the Crum Family Auditorium will offer a broad range of market research opportunities in controlled environments with 35 technology-driven workstations, including various forms of monitoring and control of thermal, visual and auditory cues for individual study. FACULTY LOUNGE A dedicated space at the heart of the faculty floor on the second level, adjacent to the EnCap Investments and LCM Group Alternative Asset Management Center/Don Jackson Center for Financial Studies and the Albert W. Niemi Center for Economic Growth and Leadership, will encourage Cox School faculty to share expertise, celebrate individual and departmental accomplishments and collaborate in groundbreaking research and innovation. CLASSROOMS Dynamic, upgraded academic spaces will include traditional lecture halls, cluster-style classrooms and hybrid model classrooms that enhance the educational experience through revolutionary technology, project-based learning, modern pedagogy and collaborative research. Tour classroom naming opportunities in our virtual experience. Pictured: example of a cluster-style classroom. Spaces to spark new ideas Lower level 1st level 2nd level 3rd level Reserved spaces 1 Heppner Family Commons 2 Beth and Barry Kitt Suite for the Kitt Investment and Trading Center 3 Crum Family Auditorium 4 Duda Family Business Library 5 Crow Gallery Naming opportunities 6 Maguire Energy Institute Suite 7 Career Management Center Suite 8 Behavioral Science Lab 9 Distance Learning Lab 10 Bistro 11 Reading Commons 12 Lower Level Wing 13 Mezzanine Wing Other opportunities include the Student Success Center (Testing Center) and several classrooms. Reserved spaces 1 EY Gallery 2 Gina and Tucker Bridwell Suite for the Bridwell Institute for Economic Freedom 3 Katy and Kyle Miller Courtyard 4 McGuire Family Suite for BBA Admissions, Academic Advising and Records 5 Morris Foundation Suite for Graduate Student Services 6 Griege Family Lobby – Maguire Building 7 Benners Family Lobby – Crow Building 8 Rimer Family Suite for Alumni Relations and External Affairs Naming opportunities 9 Commons Overlook 10 Dean’s Suite 11 Plaza 12 North Wing 13 South Wing Other opportunities include the Graduate Student Lounge, Overlook Lobbies, suite housing the Business Leadership Center, and several classrooms. Reserved spaces 1 Clyde/Murphy USA Boardroom Naming opportunities Center/Institute Suites 2 Brierley Institute for Customer Engagement 3 Caruth Institute for Entrepreneurship 4 Folsom Institute for Real Estate 5 Albert W. Niemi Center for Economic Growth and Leadership Development 6 EnCap Investments and LCM Group Alternative Asset Management Center/Don Jackson Center for Financial Studies 7 Faculty Lounge 8 Faculty Wing – North 9 Faculty Wing – South Other opportunities include the Engaged [Global] Learning Suite, Seminar Room, and Faculty Wing Lobbies, as well as suites housing the Caruth Institute for Entrepreneurship and Niemi Center for Economic Growth and Leadership Development. Reserved spaces 1 Cooper Terrace 2 Georgas Terrace Lobby Naming opportunities 3 Graduate Admissions Suite 4 East Wing Fund the future For information about giving opportunities in support of the renovation and expansion of Cox School of Business facilities, please contact Ashley Pitts, Director of Development, at 214-768-4988 or apitts@smu.edu. To see how our community members are igniting the future of the Cox School, view the list of current donors to the Cox renovation and expansion project. A foundation for excellence Through the renovation and expansion of its facilities, the Cox School will inspire students, welcome visitors and promote new ways of approaching the Cox School’s unique opportunities and thought-provoking challenges during its second 100 years. We invite you to join our illustrious group of supporters in taking SMU’s enterprising spirit out into the world to benefit current and future generations. Give now Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search