COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News File photo Chonnor Ludolph is an exercise science major and a member of the Wichita State track and field team. He finished third in the decathlon in the 2021 American Athletic Conference Championship. April 29, 2022graduationexercise sciencestudentsAthleticsGraduate ProfilesTalent PipelineCollege of Applied Studies Meet a Shocker: Chonnor Ludolph By Paul Suellentrop Chonnor Ludolph was named Mr. Shocker at the athletic department’s Gold Carpet Awards in April, given to a senior who displays excellence in athletics, academics, character, service, and personal development. Ludolph finished third in the American Athletic Conference decathlon in 2021. Chonnor is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about his time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Hometown Leroy, Kansas Degree I will graduate this May with an exercise science major. What made you want to attend Wichita State? I heard a lot of good things about the university. The biggest factor for me was the Department of Physical Therapy program, as well as the track and field program. How are you feeling leading up to graduation? I feel my time in undergrad went very quick. I'm very excited to graduate and move to the next phase of my career. What was been your biggest challenge as a student, and how did you overcome it? My biggest challenge as a student was finding balance between school, being an athlete on the track and field team, and having fun. I tried to plan my week to have that time for studying, as well as time to take the load off and relax. As long as you can stay organized, you can find the time to do the things you want and need to do. What has been your most helpful learning experience at Wichita State? The most helpful learning experience for me was getting involved with the Human Performance Lab. I have learned so much from my experience, not only as a lab assistant, but also as an undergrad research assistant. What are your plans after graduation? I plan to start the DPT program this summer and finish it in three years, graduating as a DPT. I also plan to marry my fiancé in that time frame as well. How did the COVID-19 pandemic affected your time at Wichita State? COVID-19 was a challenge for many. It made it hard to find opportunities to do shadowing for physical therapy school. The learning environment online is not the same as it is person. I felt like I gained more from in-person instruction. What advice would you give other Wichita State students? Get involved. There are so many opportunities to get involved here at WSU whether it’s research, a club, intramural sports, or even the many events that the university hosts throughout the year. Find something you are passionate about and get involved - it’s a great way to meet new people. Exercise Science at Wichita State University The exercise science program at Wichita State University combines quality curriculum, high-tech research facilities and hands-on training in real-world environments. As a graduate, you’ll be well prepared to pursue an advanced degree—and for high-demand careers in a wide range of settings such as health care, the fitness industry and community-based programs. Learn more Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio Talent Pipeline NIAR WERX announces MRO program expansion with Erickson Precision Ventures Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats WSU Foundation Woolseys give $1.3 million to fulfill vision for Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©