Search Search Content: Search Close Giving Methods of Giving Planned Giving Gift Matching President's Associates Thousands Strong Faculty, Staff & Retiree Giving Memorial and Honorary Giving Establish or Support a Fund Creating an Endowment OU Foundation Endowment Opportunities OU Norman Christopher C. Gibbs College of Architecture Dodge Family College of Arts and Sciences College of Atmospheric and Geographic Sciences Michael F. Price College of Business Mewbourne College of Earth and Energy Jeannine Rainbolt College of Education Gallogly College of Engineering Weitzenhoffer Family College of Fine Arts Honors College David L. Boren College of International Studies Gaylord College of Journalism and Mass Communication OU College of Law College of Professional and Continuing Studies OU Health Sciences Center College of Allied Health College of Dentistry College of Medicine Fran and Earl Ziegler College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Hudson College of Public Health OU-Tulsa Bedlam Clinics School of Community Medicine Centers of Excellence Harold Hamm Diabetes Center Stephenson Cancer Center Oklahoma Children's Hospital Athletics Communities & Traditions Pride of Oklahoma Fred Jones Jr. Museum of Art ROTC University Libraries Sooner Parents Student Support Impact Stories of Impact Student Stories Faculty Stories Donor Stories Impact Newsletter Sooner Magazine Giving Societies President's Associates OU Quarter Century Club Seed Sower Society George Lynn Cross Heritage Society Foundation Forum Connect OU Alumni Membership Community Student Alumni Association Engage Clubs and Societies Travel About the OU Alumni Association About Us Staff FAQs Accountability Contact Us Governance Careers Our Team Our Campuses Our Communities OU Norman Careers OU Health Sciences Center Careers OU-Tulsa Careers Staff Accountability Events For OU Staff & Faculty Donor Portal Menu Give OU Alumni AssociationLive On, University! Welcome to the OU Alumni Association The OU Alumni Association offers a range of programs, including reunions, travel opportunities, academic enrichment experiences, student and alumni mentoring, as well as events surrounding our Sooner Athletics programs, like our pregame Boomer Bash. We also strive to bring OU to you. That’s why we are dedicated to the success of our more than 100 alumni clubs around the world. We keep students at the heart of all we do through the Student Alumni Association, alumni club scholarships and programs that encourage a lifelong connection with OU. What Can We Help You Find? Membership Join the OU Alumni Association or renew your membership. Community Update your information and access the OU alumni community. Clubs and Societies Find an alumni club in your area! Engage Attend our next event or find ways to get plugged in! Travel Whether you are traveling to a bowl game or around the world - we have you covered. Student Alumni Access the Student Alumni Board and Student Alumni Association. OU Alumni Store Shop the latest crimson and cream gear! About Us Questions? We are happy to help you. News OU Alum Raising Funds for Ukrainian Relief Efforts Casey Ritter recounts her experience as a Peace Corps Volunteer in Ukraine and shares information about Babusya's Kitchen, a cookbook filled with traditional Ukrainian recipes that is currently being republished to raise funds for Ukrainian relief efforts. Foundation Feature: Jenny Dinh Jenny Dinh, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center student and Oklahoma City native, is graduating with a Doctor of Dental Surgery degree. She shares how she became interested in dentistry, her journey to get to her D.D.S and what fuels her passion for the field today. Senior Story: Grayson Wise Grayson Wise, art history and French senior hailing from Poteau, Oklahoma, is making her mark by advocating for art accessibility within her community. All News Calendar of Events Jun 10 June 10, 2022: 2023 Sightseeing Sooner Travel Showcase & Reunion Aug 16 August 16, 2022 to August 18, 2022: 2022 Women's Welcome sponsored by Halliburton See Event Calendar 100% Of gift principal goes to your designated purpose 78 Years of inspiring philanthropy at OU 207% Scholarship endowment growth in past 10 years $2.6B in all-time donations University of Oklahoma Foundation 100 W. Timberdell Road Norman, OK 73019 Phone: (405) 321-1174 Email: oufoundation@ou.edu Support Careers About Privacy Policy Contact Us OU Alumni Association FAQs For OU Staff & Faculty Trustee Login Login Give Today Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Privacy Policy Information We are committed to protecting your personal information and your right to privacy. Our Privacy Policy details the information we collect, how we use and share it, and the choices you have about how your information is used and shared. We’ve summarized the policy here for your convenience. We collect personal information you provide to us and information about the devices you use to interact with us. We use the information for a number of reasons, including notifying you of your gift giving history, providing you with relevant information about the Foundation and the services it provides, and to enhance your overall experience while using our website. We share information with service providers and others to support our business and mission of serving the University of Oklahoma. We do not sell any of your information. You have choices with respect to the use of your information and may ask us to stop using some or all of your information. We have a variety of safeguards in place to help protect your information against unauthorized access, use or disclosure. The Privacy Policy may be changed from time to time, and those changes become effective when the revised policy is posted to our website. The complete policy, which we encourage you to read, may be found here: Privacy Policy. About Your Gifts Gifts to the University of Oklahoma are processed by the OU Foundation, a nonprofit 501(c)(3) organization that is the preferred channel for all private contributions that benefit students and faculty at OU campuses: OU Norman, OU Health Sciences Center and OU-Tulsa. Learn more about the OU Foundation » Mobile Menu Close Search Content: Giving Methods of Giving Planned Giving Gift Matching President's Associates Thousands Strong Faculty, Staff & Retiree Giving Memorial and Honorary Giving Establish or Support a Fund Creating an Endowment OU Foundation Endowment Opportunities OU Norman Christopher C. Gibbs College of Architecture Dodge Family College of Arts and Sciences College of Atmospheric and Geographic Sciences Michael F. Price College of Business Mewbourne College of Earth and Energy Jeannine Rainbolt College of Education Gallogly College of Engineering Weitzenhoffer Family College of Fine Arts Honors College David L. Boren College of International Studies Gaylord College of Journalism and Mass Communication OU College of Law College of Professional and Continuing Studies OU Health Sciences Center College of Allied Health College of Dentistry College of Medicine Fran and Earl Ziegler College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Hudson College of Public Health OU-Tulsa Bedlam Clinics School of Community Medicine Centers of Excellence Harold Hamm Diabetes Center Stephenson Cancer Center Oklahoma Children's Hospital Athletics Communities & Traditions Pride of Oklahoma Fred Jones Jr. Museum of Art ROTC University Libraries Sooner Parents Student Support Impact Stories of Impact Student Stories Faculty Stories Donor Stories Impact Newsletter Sooner Magazine Giving Societies President's Associates OU Quarter Century Club Seed Sower Society George Lynn Cross Heritage Society Foundation Forum Connect OU Alumni Membership Community Student Alumni Association Engage Clubs and Societies Travel About the OU Alumni Association About Us Staff FAQs Accountability Contact Us Governance Careers Our Team Our Campuses Our Communities OU Norman Careers OU Health Sciences Center Careers OU-Tulsa Careers Staff Accountability Events For OU Staff & Faculty Donor Portal Give