Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Student Life Menu About A Message from the Vice President Office of the Vice President Leadership Kevin P. Jackson, Ph.D. Sharra Hynes Jim Marsh Elizabeth D. Palacios Burt Burleson Office of the VP Staff Zach Mills Sandra Northern Janet Green Tom Barnard Strategic Plan 2020-21 Student Life Annual Report Student Life Spotlight Student Engagement Student Activities Campus Living (Housing) New Student Programs Student Conduct Administration Ombuds to Students Student Foundation Fraternity and Sorority Life Spiritual Life Worship Baptist Student Ministries Missions Pastoral Care Community & Culture Multicultural Affairs Diversity at Baylor Student Health & Wellness Campus Recreation Counseling Services Health Services Wellness Care Team 24/7 Care (Tele-Health) Resources Follow Us on Social Media Student Life YouTube What's New BU What's New BU Submission What's New BU Archive WNBU Submission Guidelines Off Campus Housing HESA Program Ombuds to Students Statement on Hazing GameDay for Students We're Hiring Make a Gift Baylor>Student Life>About>Leadership>Elizabeth D. Palacios Elizabeth D. Palacios Dr. Elizabeth (Liz) D. Palacios currently serves as the Special Assistant to the Vice President of Student Life for Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging at Baylor University. She is a native of San Antonio, Texas, and has over 37 years of experience in higher education. Dr. Palacios received both her bachelor’s degree in business administration and master’s degree in student services and professional counseling at Baylor University. Since 1981, she has served in various areas at Baylor including graduate minority recruitment in the Graduate School and community service in the Department of Student Activities. In 2002, she earned her Ph.D. from the University of Texas at Austin in School Psychology and joined the faculty in School of Education. Dr. Palacios taught undergraduate courses in secondary education and graduate courses in school psychology and educational administration. In 2006, she was named Dean for Student Development in the Division of Student Life overseeing Multicultural Affairs, Community Engagement and Service, and the Academy for Leadership Development. She currently teaches in the Higher Education and Student Affairs graduate program at Baylor. In 2015, she was charged with leading the Division of Student Life in both student leadership education and development as well as cultural competency, diversity, and inclusion. In 2016, she was named the first Special Assistant to the President on Diversity at Baylor University. In 2018, she was elected President for the Texas Association of Chicanos in Higher Education, a statewide organization focused on the promotion of Latina/os in higher education as scholars and leaders. Dr. Palacios has authored numerous publications, presentations, a book chapter in the National Association of School Psychologists primer on training and research on multiculturalism in the schools, and in 2018, a book chapter in the NASPA book on Latino/a/x Student Affairs leaders in higher education. She served as an inaugural faculty member for the NASPA Escaleras Leadership Institute for Hispanic Student Affairs professionals. She serves on various national, regional, and local boards on higher education, retention, diversity, and leadership development About A Message from the Vice President Office of the Vice President Leadership Kevin P. Jackson, Ph.D. Sharra Hynes Jim Marsh Elizabeth D. Palacios Burt Burleson Office of the VP Staff Zach Mills Sandra Northern Janet Green Tom Barnard Strategic Plan 2020-21 Student Life Annual Report Student Life Spotlight Division of Student Life McLane Student Life Center One Bear Place #97016 Waco, TX 76798-7016 (254) 710-1314 StudentLife@baylor.edu EventsGiveNewsletter General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About A Message from the Vice President Office of the Vice President Leadership Kevin P. Jackson, Ph.D. Sharra Hynes Jim Marsh Elizabeth D. Palacios Burt Burleson Office of the VP Staff Zach Mills Sandra Northern Janet Green Tom Barnard Strategic Plan 2020-21 Student Life Annual Report Student Life Spotlight Student Engagement Student Activities Campus Living (Housing) New Student Programs Student Conduct Administration Ombuds to Students Student Foundation Fraternity and Sorority Life Spiritual Life Worship Baptist Student Ministries Missions Pastoral Care Community & Culture Multicultural Affairs Diversity at Baylor Student Health & Wellness Campus Recreation Counseling Services Health Services Wellness Care Team 24/7 Care (Tele-Health) Resources Follow Us on Social Media Student Life YouTube What's New BU What's New BU Submission What's New BU Archive WNBU Submission Guidelines Off Campus Housing HESA Program Ombuds to Students Statement on Hazing GameDay for Students We're Hiring Make a Gift