Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Strategic Initiatives Community Life Strategic Initiatives More in this Section Explore Strategic Initiatives: Artist-in-Residence Program Beyond the Casebook Series Lawyers, Community, and Impact Discover how Columbia Law School is building upon its distinguished legacy while also embracing an ambitious vision to shape a more just, well-governed, and prosperous future. Access and Career Choice Through unprecedented investments in student financial aid, we seek to make a legal education possible for all qualified students with the drive to succeed. The Public Interest/Public Service Fellows Program and generous Loan Repayment Assistance Program provide support for students pursuing public sector careers. Diversity and Inclusion At Columbia Law, we seek to create community across communities. With a highly diverse faculty and student body, we challenge students to learn from perspectives and experiences different from their own. Opportunities abound for students to join an affinity group, participate in a service trip, or attend an event or a conference. Curricular Innovation Our curriculum is designed to prepare students to lead across sectors, industries, and phases of their careers. Clinics and externships allow students to work with real clients on live issues affecting their lives and communities. Innovative opportunities, like the Davis Polk Leadership Initiative and the In-House Counsel Program, equip graduates to be versatile, practice-ready professionals. Student Life The student experience is all-encompassing. From a wide array of student organizations to high-quality facilities, we are committed to ensuring that the experience of being a law student at Columbia is one that empowers students while supporting their personal and professional growth. Co-curricular initiatives, such as Lawyers, Community, and Impact and the Dean’s Distinguished Speaker Series, help students dissect, apply, and contextualize what they learn in the classroom. The Campaign for Columbia Law Columbia Law alumni are a force in the world. The Campaign for Columbia Law, launched in 2017, aims to raise $300 million to support student access and financial aid, faculty research and recruitment, experiential education offerings, and a full-scale renovation of the Law Library. Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.