Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Registrar VA Educational Benefits *Accordion and tab elements may not be compatible with all versions of Internet Explorer web browsers. If you experience difficulty, please upgrade to the latest version of Chrome or Firefox. Thank you for choosing to use your VA educational benefit at Clemson University! You’ll want to be sure you select an academic program at Clemson that has been approved to use your VA educational benefit. You can find all approved programs online via the VA’s WEAMS Report. Once you’ve been admitted to Clemson University, you will begin working with our VA Benefits Office. How does Clemson University process your benefit? Your first step is to apply for benefits through the VA. Once you’ve been approved for an educational benefit through the VA, you will receive a document of confirmation. This is usually called a Certificate of Eligibility (or Notice of Basic Eligibility or VR&E Authorization form). For students who are NEW to using benefits at Clemson, the first steps with our office are: * Email a copy of your Certificate of Eligibility to VABenefits Complete Clemson’s Benefits Request Form online Register for courses for the term *You may complete these steps in any order that works best for you! The Benefits Request Form is the only official indicator to our office that you’d like for us to process your term enrollment to the VA. You must submit this form prior to EACH term in which you plan to enroll. Enrollment will be certified by semester based on programs approved by South Carolina's Commission on Higher Education State Approving Agency to offer veteran education and training (GI Bill®). You may access these approved programs at Clemson using the VA's online WEAMS Report. All the information and forms below are required to process your benefits. Failure to complete these forms may result in processing delays. Please only send documents to us electronically via email to VA Benefits. Be sure to review the FAQ for our most frequently asked questions! Certification Our Certification Process Our office uses the confirmation of benefits you receive from the VA (your COE), Clemson’s Benefits Request Form, and your term course registration to evaluate which credits we can submit to the VA for payment(s). The data we upload to the VA’s online system is called your term certification. Our office is allowed to submit to the VA only the credit hours that are meeting a specific degree requirement. If you are taking courses outside of any declared degree requirement, then we very likely will not be able to submit those hours in your certification to the VA. We carefully and manually review each course for each student to ensure accuracy. We will confirm with students via their Clemson email when we have submitted the term’s certification to the VA. The confirmation email we send is very descriptive and informative, so be sure to read over that information carefully. Once we upload your data into the VA’s online system, the VA will then process and pay accordingly. Please know that this is not an instant process, and it does take time to process on our end and then time to process on the VA’s end. Forms Required Forms New Students (first time using benefits at Clemson University) Certificate of Eligibility The Certificate of Eligibility (COE) is proof that the student is eligible for benefits. If you don't already have a COE, please review your specific chapter of benefit below for instructions. Benefits Request Form Students must complete the Benefits Request Form to receive benefits each term. This form is required for paperwork to be sent to the VA for processing and payment. Utilizing your VA Benefits (video instructions) Continuing Students (have previously used benefits at Clemson University) Benefits Request Form Each term students must complete the Benefits Request Form in order to receive benefits. This form is required for paperwork to be sent to the VA for processing and payment. Utilizing your VA Benefits (video instructions) Benefits Education Assistance Programs Chapter 30 Montgomery GI Bill® The MGIB program provides up to 36 months of education benefits. Recipients are paid a monthly stipend while enrolled in education classes. Generally, benefits are payable for 10 years following your release from active duty. Certificate of Eligibility A COE is proof that the student is eligible for Chapter 30. Follow the steps below to receive a COE: Applying for benefits for the first time: VA FORM 22-1990 Proof of submission is required (i.e., submission confirmation number) Used benefits previously at another school: VA FORM 22-1995 (Change of Program or Place of Training Form) Proof of submission is required (i.e., submission confirmation number) Verify Enrollment If you are in a degree program at a college or university, you will not receive payment until you have verified your attendance. Your enrollment can be verified starting on the last calendar day of the month by using our Automated Verification of Enrollment (WAVE) or by calling our toll free Interactive Voice Response (IVR) telephone line at 1-877-823-2378. Chapter 31 Vocational Rehabilitation Chapter 31, the VR&E program assists Veterans with service-connected disabilities and an employment handicap and Service members who are in the process of transitioning from military to civilian employment prepare for, find, and keep suitable jobs. Certificate of Eligibility A COE is proof that the student is eligible for Chapter 31. Follow the steps below to receive a COE: If you have used CH 33 Post 9/11 previously: VA FORM 28-1900 Or, if you have never used Ch 33 Post 9/11 or Ch 31 previously: VA FORM 28-1900 VA FORM 28-1905 is your COE This form is sent to the School Certifying Official from your VR&E case manager. Chapter 33 Post-9/11 GI Bill® The Post-9/11 GI Bill® is for individuals with at least 90 days of aggregate service on or after September 11, 2001 or individuals discharged with a service-connected disability after 30 days. This benefit provides up to 36 months of education benefits. Generally, benefits are payable for 15 years following your release from active duty. The portion or percentage of the program maximum amounts to be received is determined by the length of the aggregate service and/or disability status. This program will pay eligible students: Tuition and fees paid directly to the school not to exceed the maximum in-state tuition and mandatory fees for Clemson University. (Refer to Chapter 33 Payment information for details) Monthly housing allowance (MHA can be determined by using the GI Bill® Comparison Tool) The MHA is paid on a monthly basis by direct deposit around the first of each month. The first check may be received approximately six to eight weeks after the first day of class. Annual books and supplies stipend of up to $1,000 paid at $41.67 per credit hour Certificate of Eligibility A COE is proof that the student is eligible for Chapter 33. Follow the steps below to receive a COE: Certificate of Eligibility for Chapter 33 Veteran Dependent Applying for benefits for the first time: VA FORM 22-1990 Save the confirmation number for proof of submission Applying for benefits for the first time: VA FORM 22-1990e Save the confirmation number for proof of submission Used benefits previously at another school: VA FORM 22-1995 (Change of Program Form) Save the confirmation number for proof of submission Used benefits previously at another school: VA FORM 22-5495 (Change of Program Form) Save the confirmation number for proof of submission Yellow Ribbon Program The Yellow Ribbon Program is directly connected to the Post 9/11 GI Bill® and is an agreement between the degree-granting institution and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). This program is available each year to 50 out-of-state undergraduate students that are entitled to receive 100% of Chapter 33 benefits, as determined by the VA. This matching program grants a total of $3500 per semester (fall and spring only). To apply for this program, an eligible student must: Complete the school's admission process AND register for authorized classes in a VA approved major at Clemson University Provide a copy of the Certificate of Eligibility (COE) indicating that the student is eligible at the 100% rate for the Post 9/11 GI Bill® Be a non-resident of South Carolina undergraduate student at Clemson University Maintain good academic standing at Clemson University Complete the Yellow Ribbon Application Please note: There are only 50 spots available. The spots are filled on a first come, first served basis. Students will retain his/her YRP spot until he or she: Exhaust Post 9/11 entitlement Graduate from Clemson University No longer maintain good academic standing at Clemson University (suspension) Chapter 35 Dependents Assistance This program provides education and training opportunities to eligible dependents of veterans who are permanently and totally disabled due to a service-related condition, or who died while on active duty or as a result of a service-related condition. Recipients in this program receive a monthly stipend. Monthly stipends can be determined by using the GI Bill® Comparison Tool. Certificate of Eligibility A COE is proof that the student is eligible for Chapter 35. Follow the steps below to receive a COE: Applying for benefits for the first time: VA FORM 22-5490 Proof of submission is required (i.e., submission confirmation number) Used benefits previously at another school : VA FORM 22-5495 (Change of Program Form) Proof of submission is required (i.e., submission confirmation number) Additional Information Along with the FEDERAL portion of the Chapter 35 Dependents Assistance benefit, it’s possible a student may qualify for a state benefit that is separate from the federal benefit. Clemson cannot and does not determine eligibility for the state benefit. Students can apply for and find information on the state benefit on the SC Department of Veterans Affairs website. If approved for this state benefit, a letter will be mailed to the student and to Clemson as verification. For all inquiries related to the state portion of this benefit, please visit the SC Department of Veterans Affairs website. Chapter 1606 Select Reserve The MGIB-SR program may be available to you if you are a member of the Selected Reserve. The Selected Reserve includes the Army Reserve, Navy Reserve, Air Force Reserve, Marine Corps Reserve and Coast Guard Reserves, and the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard. Eligible recipients in this program receive a monthly stipend. Monthly stipends can be determined by using the GI Bill® Comparison Tool. Notice of Basic Eligibility (NOBE) If you are currently drilling National Guard or Reservist Service Member, you will have a NOBE instead of a Certificate of Eligibility (COE). This form is provided to you by your respective unit. Verify Enrollment If you are in a degree program at a college or university, you will not receive payment until you have verified your attendance. Your enrollment can be verified starting on the last calendar day of the month by using our Automated Verification of Enrollment (WAVE) or by calling our toll free Interactive Voice Response (IVR) telephone line at 1-877-823-2378. Federal Tuition Assistance Federal Tuition Assistance can be used in conjunction with all other federal VA educational benefits. ONLY students who are currently serving or have served are eligible; dependents of veterans are NOT eligible for Federal Tuition Assistance. Please complete this form for EACH term you’d like for Clemson University to process your Federal Tuition Assistance request to your specific branch of the military. Once you submit the form, our office will email you next steps. If you are also using another federal benefit (example: Ch. 33 Post-9/11 or Ch. 1606 MGIB-SR), please ALSO complete the Benefits Request Form. Submit the Federal Tuition Assistance Request Form. Important Information Prepare for Orientation The new student orientation program at Clemson University is the first step in ensuring that new undergraduate students have a successful transition and integration into college life. New Student Orientation occurs during the summer, before the fall semester. While attending orientation students will connect with faculty and staff, meet with an academic advisor, register for classes, etc. The VA Benefits Team will be present at all the VA Education Benefits sessions to discuss benefits, student responsibilities, what to expect on your bill or payment, and answer questions. To ensure that your time at orientation is best utilized, we highly recommend that you start the process to receive your Certificate of Eligibility (COE) as soon as possible. For instructions on how to get a COE, please refer to your specific chapter of benefit above. Please bring a copy of your COE to the orientation session or email a copy to vabenefits@clemson.edu. Section 702 Veterans Choice Act Veterans, active duty military, and their dependents may be eligible to pay in-state tuition if they are using Chapter 30, 31 or 33 benefits. No application is necessary. Our Military Residency Office (in Financial Aid) will automatically award a waiver to any student using Chapters 30, 31, or 33 who are residing in SC, including living in the residence halls on campus. Please note that students who receive a waiver under this provision will lose eligibility for nonresident scholarships, waivers and grants. Registration and Course Information Withdrawals, Excessive Electives and Repeating a Course The VA prohibits payment for any course that is not required for graduation. This includes repeats of a grade 'D' or better (unless a higher grade is required), withdrawals, CO-OP program, and excessive electives. If a student fails a course or if you receive a “D” in a course that requires a grade of “C” or better, the VA will cover the cost of retaking the course. If you are unsure if a class can be certified, please contact our office at 864-656-7855. If you are planning to or need to drop a course, be sure to reference Student Financial Services “Adjustment of Academic Fees” website to determine the percentage of fees you may (or may not) owe based on the course(s) you are dropping. When using the charts on this page, be sure you are referencing the correct part of term: www.clemson.edu/finance/student-financials/adjustments/. Rounding Out In a student’s graduating semester, if the student takes one class that is required for the student to graduate and receive his/her degree, the student can register for other classes to ensure they remain full time. These “extra” courses MUST fall under the student’s academic discipline. This is known as “rounding out” and the VA made this change to the Roundout Rule in Fall 2021. The VA only allows this once and only in a student’s graduating term. See additional information about rounding out. Course Load/Full-Time Status To ensure that you meet the minimum credit hours to receive your full benefit, please use the Credit Hours Chart (PDF) for all terms. Change in Enrollment or Student Status All students using education benefits from the VA are required by law to keep the University Certifying Official informed of all the following: Periods of enrollment Audits and withdrawals Change of major Curriculum year changes Course Substitutions Address change Students called to Active Duty Dropping or Withdrawing from Classes Dropping your enrollment below the minimum credit load—see Credit Hours Chart (PDF) —or withdrawing from the University may result in a retroactive reduction in benefits and a debt to the VA and Clemson University. Any forgiveness of VA debts granted by the VA does not constitute forgiveness of any debt that may be owed to Clemson University. A statement of mitigating circumstances and supportive documentation may need to be submitted to the Veterans Administration. Chapter 33 Payments Tuition and mandatory fees are certified to the VA after the 100% refund period to ensure we have a static number to report to the VA. Once a student has completed the required forms, Student Financial Services will place an anticipated credit (for tuition and mandatory fees only) on the students account, based on the percentage/benefit level listed on the students Certificate of Eligibility. Students are required to pay room, board, and any other fees not covered by the Post 9/11 GI Bill® by the published payment deadline. Students who do not have a Certificate of Eligibility or have an outstanding balance due for fees not covered by Ch 33 benefits, will be advised to sign up for the Chapter 33 VA Payment Plan. The Chapter 33 VA Payment Plan allows eligible students to satisfy the remaining balance on their account in two equal installments. Should a student elect to no longer utilize their benefit or exhaust their benefit, they will be ineligible for the Ch 33 VA Payment Plan. This payment plan is only offered during the Fall and Spring terms. For questions, email GIBILL33@clemson.edu. Eligibility Student must be eligible to receive Post 9/11 GI Bill® benefits for the registered term Student must initiate request to utilize Post 9/11 GI Bill® benefits online each term through the certifying official’s office Benefits of Enrollment No enrollment fee Protect student activity privileges Avoid beginning-of-term late payment fees Avoid course cancellation (enrollees with no prior term balance) Avoid general email correspondence regarding outstanding balance How to Enroll Log into your iROAR account and choose the “Student Billing” option Select "My Bill" Select "Enroll in Payment Plan" Choose the "Chapter 33 Payment Plan" NOTE: The option to register in the Chapter 33 payment plan will not be visible until your Benefits Request Form has been submitted for the appropriate term and bills have been released by Clemson University. Terms and Conditions Two payments per term Minimum account balance for enrollment: $200 Payment due dates: Oct 1, Nov 1 (Fall) and March 1, April 1 (Spring) Late payment fee: $150 per late payment No requirement to set up bank account auto-draft Student can schedule and/or submit payments online, in person or by mail Payment must be received by scheduled due date Restrictions Past-term balance can restrict student from future registration A late payment triggers Fike and athletic ticket privilege hold Default payments may result in restriction from enrollment in future payment plans STEM Scholarship Post 9/11 GI Bill® STEM students who have exhausted or are about to exhaust their entitlement may be eligible for nine months of additional Post 9/11 GI Bill Benefits (or a maximum of $30,000) through the Edith Nourse Rogers STEM Scholarship. Priority will be given to individuals who are entitled to 100% of Post 9/11 Gi Bill benefits and to those who require the most credit hours. Yellow Ribbon may not be used with this extension. These additional benefits cannot be transferred to dependents. For additional information including how to apply, please visit the Rogers STEM Scholarship website. Resources Veteran Contact Information Department Contact VA Certifying Officials 864-656-7855 vabenefits@clemson.edu Student Financial Services 864-656-5592 GIBILL33@clemson.edu Student Financial Aid 864-656-2280 finaid@clemson.edu Military Residency (Choice Act) 864-656-2280 Veteran's Affairs 888-442-4551 Pickens Co. Veteran's Affairs 864-898-5926 Student Veteran's Center 864-656-2982 Opens in a new window Home Academic Calendars Academic Catalogs Graduation VA Educational Benefits Request Benefits Yellow Ribbon Form Veteran Contacts Call to Active Duty Prospective Students VA Benefits FAQ Students Faculty and Staff Reg Coordinators Forms FAQ Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram