Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Natural Sciences Molecular Biology Access Course Offerings MOL 101 / STC 101 From DNA to Human Complexity Professor/InstructorBonnie Lynn Bassler, Eric Francis Wieschaus, Ricardo Mallarino This lecture and laboratory course will acquaint non-biology majors with the theory and practice of modern molecular biology, focusing on topics of current interest to society. The course will cover basic molecular biology topics such as information storage and readout by DNA, RNA, and proteins. The course will address how recent scientific advances influence issues relevant to humanity including stem cells and CRISPR; the human microbiome and bacterial pathogens; and how the human genome can be used to understand the evolution of modern humans. Two 90-minute lectures, one three-hour laboratory. NEU 101 / MOL 110 / STC 102 Neuroscience and Everyday Life Professor/InstructorSamuel Sheng-Hung Wang, Alan Gelperin Acquaints non-science majors with classical and modern neuroscience. Lectures will give an overview at levels ranging from molecular signaling to cognitive science with a focus on the neuroscience of everyday life, from the general (love, memory, and personality) to the particular (jet lag, autism, and weight loss). The laboratory will offer hands-on experience in recording signals from single neurons, examining neural structures, and analysis of whole-brain functional brain imaging data. Two 90-minute lectures, one laboratory. MOL 214 / EEB 214 / CBE 214 Introduction to Cellular and Molecular Biology Professor/Instructor Important concepts and elements of molecular biology, biochemistry, genetics, and cell biology, are examined in an experimental context. This course fulfills the requirement for students majoring in the biological sciences and satisfies the biology requirement for entrance into medical school. Two 90-minute lectures, one three-hour laboratory. MOL 215 / EEB 215 / CBE 215 Quantitative Principles in Cell and Molecular Biology Professor/InstructorAlexei V. Korennykh, Jared E. Toettcher, Philip George Felton Central concepts and experiments in cellular, molecular, and developmental biology with an emphasis on underlying physical and engineering principles. Topics include the genetic code; energetics and cellular organization; communication, feeding, and signaling between cells; feedback loops and cellular organization; problems and solutions in development; the organization of large cellular systems, such as the nervous and immune systems. Satisfies the biology requirement for entrance into medical school. Prerequisites: AP biology, physics, and calculus. Three lectures, one three-hour laboratory. ISC 231 / CHM 231 / COS 231 / MOL 231 / PHY 231 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences I Professor/InstructorThomas Gregor, Joshua Akey, Martin Helmut Wühr An integrated, mathematically and computationally sophisticated introduction to physics, chemistry, molecular biology, and computer science. Alternative to the combination of PHY 103-104, CHM 201-202, MOL 214 and COS 126. Students must enroll in ISC231 and ISC232 in the fall and ISC233 and ISC234 in the spring. Prerequisites: familiarity with calculus at the level of MAT103/104 or Advanced Placement Calculus BC, solid high school physics and chemistry courses. Five lectures, one three-hour laboratory, one three-hour computational laboratory, one evening problem session. ISC 232 / CHM 232 / COS 232 / MOL 232 / PHY 232 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences I Professor/InstructorThomas Gregor, Joshua Akey, Martin Helmut Wühr An integrated, mathematically and computationally sophisticated introduction to physics, chemistry, molecular biology, and computer science. Alternative to the combination of PHY 103-104, CHM 201-202, MOL 214 and COS 126. Students must enroll in ISC 231 and ISC 232 in the fall and ISC 233 and ISC 234 in the spring. Prerequisites: familiarity with the calculus at the level of MAT 103-104 or Advanced Placement Calculus BC, solid high school physics and chemistry courses. Five lectures, one three-hour laboratory, one three-hour computational laboratory, one evening problem session. ISC 233 / CHM 233 / COS 233 / MOL 233 / PHY 233 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences II Professor/InstructorJoshua William Shaevitz, Olga G. Troyanskaya, Martin Helmut Wühr An integrated, mathematically and computationally sophisticated introduction to physics and chemistry, drawing on examples from biological systems. Alternative to the combination of PHY 103-104, CHM 201-202, MOL 214, and COS 126. Students must enroll in ISC 231 and ISC 232 in the fall and ISC 233 and ISC 234 in the spring. Prerequisites: familiarity with the calculus at the level of MAT 103-104 or Advanced Placement Calculus BC, solid high school physics and chemistry courses. Five lectures, one three-hour laboratory, one three-hour computational laboratory, one evening problem session. ISC 234 / CHM 234 / COS 234 / MOL 234 / PHY 234 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences II Professor/InstructorJoshua William Shaevitz, Olga G. Troyanskaya, Martin Helmut Wühr An integrated, mathematically and computationally sophisticated introduction to physics and chemistry, drawing on examples from biological systems. Alternative to the combination of PHY 103-104, CHM 201-202, MOL 214 and COS 126. Students must enroll in ISC 231 and ISC 232 in the fall and ISC 233 and ISC 234 in the spring. Prerequisites: familiarity with the calculus at the level of MAT 103-104 or Advanced Placement Calculus BC, solid high school physics and chemistry courses. Five lectures, one three-hour laboratory, one three-hour computational laboratory, one evening problem session. EEB 327 / MOL 327 / GHP 327 Immune Systems: From Molecules to Populations Professor/InstructorAndrea Linn Graham Why is there immunological polymorphism in animal populations? Why do immune systems work as they do? This course examines the theories of host-parasite coevolution, including optimal host resource allocation to immune defense in light of parasite counter-strategies, and assesses the empirical evidence by which these theories are tested. Students look at the evolutionary ecology of mechanisms used by immune systems to recognize and kill parasites, finding similarities across animal taxa. Finally, students will map immune mechanisms onto host phylogenies to understand the order in which different mechanisms arose over evolutionary time. MOL 340 Molecular and Cellular Immunology Professor/InstructorAlexander Ploss A broad survey of the field of immunology and the mammalian immune system. The cellular and molecular basis of innate and acquired immunity will be discussed in detail. The course will provide frequent exemplars drawn from human biology in health and disease. Prerequisite: MOL214. MOL 342 Genetics Professor/InstructorMohamed S. Abou Donia, Michael Steven Levine Basic principles of genetics illustrated with examples from prokaryote and eukaryote organisms. Classical genetic techniques as well as molecular and genomic approaches will be discussed. The evolving concept of the gene, of genetic interactions and gene networks, as well as chromosome mechanics will be the focus of the course. Selected topics will include gene regulation, cancer genetics, the human biome, imprinting, and stem cells. Two 90-minute lectures, one precept. Prerequisite: MOL 214 or permission of instructor. MOL 345 / CHM 345 Biochemistry Professor/Instructor Fundamental concepts of biomolecular structure and function will be discussed, with an emphasis on principles of thermodynamics, binding and catalysis. A major portion of the course will focus on metabolism and its logic and regulation. Prerequisites: MOL 214/215 and either CHM 302, CHM 304, CHM 304B, CHM 337, or ISC 335. MOL 345 and CHM 302/304 may be taken concurrently. MOL 348 Cell and Developmental Biology Professor/InstructorRebecca D. Burdine, Danelle Devenport The course will investigate the roles that gene regulation, cell-cell communication, cell adhesion, cell motility, signal transduction and intracellular trafficking play in the commitment, differentiation and assembly of cells into specialized tissues. The mechanisms that underlie development of multicellular organisms, from C. elegans to humans, will be examined using biochemical, genetic and cell biological approaches. In-class problem solving, group work, and active learning approaches will be used to emphasize key concepts and analyze experimental data. Two 90-minute lectures, one precept. Prerequisite: MOL 214. MOL 350 Laboratory in Molecular Biology Professor/InstructorJodi Schottenfeld-Roames MOL350 prepares students to become contributing members of a research lab. Students will advance as creative, critical thinkers and effective communicators. While completing original research, students will employ techniques used by cell and molecular biologists, molecular geneticists, and biochemists. Students will discover how and why specific knowledge, skills and techniques are applied to the semester's research topic; will practice extracting pertinent information from scientific literature; and will generate a research report modeled on the scientific literature. One lecture, two three-hour laboratories. Prerequisite: MOL 214. MOL 380 Modern Microbiology Professor/InstructorMartin C. Jonikas Microbes offer a rich world for exploration, a teeming universe invisible to the naked eye but thrilling in terms of diversity and scope. Human beings could not survive in their absence, yet we often think of them as the enemy. In fact, the majority are beneficial and can be harnessed for good in science and industry. This course will examine both sides: first an overview of microbial growth and function as well as specialized applications in areas such as photosynthesis, synthetic biology, quorum sensing, and CRISPR, with subsequent study of the threats to human health arising from dangerous pathogens that cause bacterial and viral disease. NEU 408 / MOL 408 / PSY 404 Cellular and Systems Neuroscience Professor/InstructorTimothy J. Buschman, Ilana Basya Witten A survey of fundamental principles in neurobiology at the biophysical, cellular, and system levels. Lectures will address the basis of the action potential, synaptic transmission and plasticity, local circuit computation, sensory physiology, and motor control. Prerequisites: MOL 214 or MOL 215, PSY 258, PHY 103-104, and MAT 103-104, or permission of instructor. Two 90-minute lectures, one preceptorial. MOL 423 / GHP 423 Molecular Basis of Cancer Professor/InstructorYibin Kang We will explore the molecular events leading to the onset and progression of human cancer. We will review the central genetic and biochemical elements that make up the cell cycle, followed by a survey of the signal transduction pathways and checkpoints that regulate it. We will discuss oncogenes, tumor suppressor and mutator genes that act in these pathways and review the role of viral oncogenes and their action on cells. We will investigate the role of cancer stem cells and the interaction between tumor and the host environment. We will explore specific clinical case studies in light of the molecular events underlying different cancers. MOL 425 / SPI 355 / GHP 425 Infection: Biology, Burden, Policy Professor/InstructorThomas Eugene Shenk This course will examine fundamental determinants of human microbe interaction at the biological and ecological levels. The focus will be on major global infectious diseases, their burden of illness and policy challenges for adequate prevention and control. Each infectious agent will be discussed in terms of its biology, mechanisms of pathogenesis, and epidemiology, as well as strategies for its control. Specific emphasis will be placed on the public health aspects of each disease. Prerequisite: MOL 101, MOL 214, or permission of instructor. One three-hour lecture. MOL 431 Regulatory Mechanisms in Development Professor/InstructorPaul Daniel Schedl How do organisms ensure that genes are expressed at the right time and place as they develop from a single egg cell into a multicellular animal? In this seminar style course, we will explore some of the diverse mechanisms that control gene expression, including those involved in transcriptional regulation, epigenetic silencing, translational regulation and cell-cell signaling. By reading and critically evaluating the primary literature, we will explore many of the crucial molecular biology, cell biology and genetics techniques that have helped illuminate the gene regulatory mechanisms that are essential for animal development. MOL 433 / CBE 434 / GHP 433 Biotechnology Professor/InstructorJane Flint This course will consider the principles, development, outcomes and future directions of therapeutic applications of biotechnology, with particular emphasis on the interplay between basic research and clinical experience. Topics to be discussed include production of hormones and other therapeutic proteins, gene therapy, oncolytic viruses, and stem cells. Reading will be from the primary literature. Prerequisite: MOL 214. MOL 435 Pathogenesis and Bacterial Diversity Professor/Instructor An examination of current topics exploring the microbial world with emphasis on signal transduction, and the molecular basis for bacterial diversity and their roles in bacterial pathogenesis. Topics will include the regulation of cell division and sporulation, quorum sensing, mechanisms of microbial differentiation, evolution of communicable diseases, molecular mechanisms of pathogenesis, and identification of virulence factor and immunization. Two lectures, one precept. Prerequisites: MOL214 or permission of instructor. NEU 437 / MOL 437 / PSY 437 Computational Neuroscience Professor/InstructorCarlos D. Brody Introduction to the biophysics of nerve cells and synapses, and the mathematics of neural networks. How can networks of neurons compute? How do we model and analyze data from neuroscientific experiments? Data from experiments running at Princeton will be used as examples (e.g., blowfly visual system, hippocampal slice, rodent prefrontal cortex). Each topic will have a lecture and a computer laboratory component. Prerequisite: MOL 410, or elementary knowledge of linear algebra, differential equations, probability, and basic programming ability, or permission of the instructor. Two 90 minute lectures, one laboratory. CBE 438 / MOL 438 Biomolecular Engineering Professor/InstructorA. James Link This course will focus on the design and engineering of biomacromolecules. After a brief review of protein and nucleic acid chemistry and structure, we will delve into rational, evolutionary, and computational methods for the design of these molecules. Specific topics to be covered include aptamers, protein and RNA-based switches and sensors, unnatural amino acids and nucleotides, enzyme engineering, and the integration of these parts via synthetic biology efforts. Two lectures. NEU 447 / MOL 447 / GHP 447 Neuroimmunology: Immune Molecules in Normal Brain Function and Neuropathology Professor/InstructorLisa M. Boulanger In this course, we will explore the diverse and complex interactions between the brain and the immune system from the perspective of current, cutting-edge research papers. In particular, we will focus on the molecular mechanisms of these interactions and their role in brain development and function as well as their potential contributions to specific neurological disorders, including autism. In the process, students will learn to read, critically evaluate, and explain in presentations the content of articles from the primary literature. Prerequisites: MOL 214/215. MOL 450 Stem Cells and Cell Fate Decision Processes in the Genomic Era Professor/Instructor Focuses on the current state of stem cell research and the future directions for this field. Stem cell research has great promise for the future of regenerative medicine. Very little is known about the molecular biology that underlies stem cell fate determination. The completion of the human and mouse genome sequences, together with novel technologies to observe global gene expression, offer unique opportunities to unravel stem cell regulatory mechanisms. Explores parallels to other, more mature biological systems. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Prerequisite: 342 and 348, or instructor's permission. Load More More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice