Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Physics and Materials Science About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Resources News SPS Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact The Department of Physics and Materials Science Located in Manning Hall by the fountain and Administration building Working together, learning together Students experimenting with the speed of sound waves in the Conceptual Physics Lab, one of our many facilities. Magnetic Materials Research Lab Students synthesizing thin films in a thermal evaporator. Click here for more magnetic materials research information. Engaging Learners in Classroom Situations Students undertaking a projectile motion laboratory exercise in Physics I Teaching Lab PreviousNext Take Action Apply Now Contact Us Alumni Spotlights and Newsletters Seminars and Endowed Lecture Follow Us Online Facebook Home Department of Physics and Materials Science Catalyst for innovative research in Physics and Materials Science, Education, and Training Our Goal Our goal is to advance scientific knowledge and innovation while at the same time educating the next generation of talented scientists. Our dedicated faculty supports this mission with cutting-edge research, unique programs, and a supportive learning environment. Remembering Emeritus Professor Dr. Narahari Achar, Friday, April 22, at 3 p.m. in the Manning 201 It grieves us to announce that Professor Emeritus Narahari Achar passed away on 23 April 2021. Dr. Narahari Achar joined the Physics faculty at the University of Memphis in 1984. He had a broad research interests ranging from topics in the electric properties of materials to applied fractional calculus to ancient astronomy and published prolifically in these areas. His wise, encouraging words and affable demeanor benefited his colleagues and students at the University of Memphis. He is greatly missed. There will be a memorial for Dr. Achar on April 22, 2022 at 3:00 p.m. in the Manning Hall Auditorium (Manning Hall Room 201). For those unable to attend in person, please register and attend via Zoom. Clicking on the flyer to the left will permit the download of a pdf version of the memorial announcement. Preparation for Physics on the MCAT The Department of Physics and Materials Science is pleased to announce that we are offering Physics for MCAT. Registrations are due by APRIL 30. For more information and to register, click here. Recognizing the Dedication and Contributions of Physics Faculty Members–Dr. Samuel Mensah In this interview, Dr. Samuel Mensah shares how he became interested in Physics, what brought him to the University of Memphis, as well as some tips for student success and some of his vision for the Department of Physics and Materials Science at the University of Memphis. The Physics Department enjoys the perspectives that the faculty members possess, since they come from various parts of world, representing many traditions and experiences, which are all united in the passion for Physics and student success. News and Highlights Follow the Department of Physics and Materials Science faculty and students in their research, presentations, travels and accomplishments. Read More Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/22/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.