Skip to main content School of Education Toggle navigation Request Info Visit Search Search this site Search About About Home Facts and Rankings Life in Pittsburgh Meet Our Dean Leadership Team Equity and Justice PittEd Justice Collective Office of the Associate Dean Equity and Justice Committee Equity and Justice Scholars Justice Scholars Institute Practices of Freedom Community Engagement Our History Contact Us Academics Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Master's EdD Program EdD Areas of Concentration EdD Course Format EdD Program Curriculum EdD Cohort Model EdD Admissions Requirements PhD Program Certificates Online Programs Pitt2Pitt Program Admissions Admissions Home Admissions Requirements Undergraduate Admissions Master's Admissions PhD Admissions EdD Admissions International Student Admissions Apply Now Engage With Us Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Diversity and Inclusion International Students Frequently Asked Questions Pitt Education Student Ambassadors Student Services Student Services Home Academic Advising Career Services Student Organizations Graduation April 2022 Graduation Policies and Forms Act 48/45 Credit Reporting Ombudsperson Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Home Research Impact Grants Office Updates Academic Departments Educational Foundations, Organizations, and Policy Health and Human Development Teaching, Learning, and Leading Centers and Institutes Center for Urban Education Healthy Lifestyle Institute Office of Child Development Falk Laboratory School Affiliated Journals and Organizations American Educational Research Journal Carnegie Project on the Education Doctorate Comparative and International Education Society Early Childhood Education Journal Educational Researcher English Teaching: Practice and Critique Negro Educational Review Journal Visitor Studies Faculty Directory Alumni & Giving Alumni Home Alumni Community Ways to Give Distinguished Alumni Awards Connect With Us Apply Now We Ignite Learning Your future as a leader in education begins here. Explore Our Programs We Advance Educational Equity Become an advocate for justice through education. View Our Commitment We Forge Engaged Partnerships Immerse yourself in our innovative educational partnerships. Our Community Engagement Why Pitt Education? The Pitt School of Education is one of the top-ranked schools of education in the country. Through our 90+ degree and certificate programs, we approach learning as intertwined with health, wellness, and human development. We teach, we dream, we lead with integrity. We are the Pitt School of Education. Start your journey: Request Info Visit Us Apply Now Academic Pathways Undergraduate Master's EdD Program PhD Program Certificates Online Watch Our Mission-Vision Video As a top-ranked School of Education, we offer an ideal environment for student learning. Come join a school that is committed to educational equity and supporting the well-being for all students. See how we are transforming education » Fast Facts #1 Ranked Public School of Education in Pennsylvania, #23 in the U.S. $24M Funded research for 50+ research projects in 2019-20 9 Alumni named School Superintendents of the Year in Pennsylvania The PittEd Justice Collective We are actively engaged in anti-racist initiatives that center equity and justice in education. It's how we contribute to a future that is more equitable, engaging, well, and justice-directed. Featured News View All News New Undergraduate Teaching Degree Created The Bachelor of Science in Teacher Education will begin accepting students for fall 2023. Pitt Education Ranked as Top Education School The school continues to be the No. 1 ranked education school in Western Pennsylvania. Exploring the Labor Strike as a Portal for Freedom A new academic undertaking will generate new study and dialogue on labor strikes. Dean Kinloch Releases New Book on Justice The book provides resources for those who seek to transform schools and classrooms into sites of engagement. EdD Alumnus Bill Fox Named VP at Antioch College Fox credits his time in the Pitt Education EdD program for preparing him to take on his new role. P.R.I.D.E. Program Expands Reach to Philadelphia The program is designed to help young Black children aged 0 to 8 to develop a positive racial identity. View All News New Undergraduate Teaching Degree Created The Bachelor of Science in Teacher Education will begin accepting students for fall 2023. Pitt Education Ranked as Top Education School The school continues to be the No. 1 ranked education school in Western Pennsylvania. Exploring the Labor Strike as a Portal for Freedom A new academic undertaking will generate new study and dialogue on labor strikes. Dean Kinloch Releases New Book on Justice The book provides resources for those who seek to transform schools and classrooms into sites of engagement. EdD Alumnus Bill Fox Named VP at Antioch College Fox credits his time in the Pitt Education EdD program for preparing him to take on his new role. P.R.I.D.E. Program Expands Reach to Philadelphia The program is designed to help young Black children aged 0 to 8 to develop a positive racial identity. School of Education School of Education 5900 Wesley W. Posvar Hall 230 South Bouquet Street Pittsburgh, PA 15260 Phone: 412-648-2230 Fax: 412-648-1899 Email: soeinfo@pitt.edu General Info News Events PittEd Podcast Centers and Institutes Degrees and Programs Give to Pitt Contact Us School Resources SOE Portal School Directory School Course Catalog Faculty Resources Faculty Positions Academic Calendar Student Policies Act 48/45 Information Apply Visit Request Info Give Revised 05/31/22Copyright 2022Office of University Communications