By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Apply In this Section What We Look For College-Specific Requirements AP/IB/CLEP Credits Enrollment Options Early Decision Deadlines Application Mailing Addresses FAQ Apply to Syracuse University Thank you for your interest in Syracuse University! Applying is easy and only takes minutes using the Common Application. Begin your application Use the Common Application to apply if you are a: Domestic first year or transfer student International first-year or transfer student Application Deadlines Be aware of the application deadlines for individual programs and enrollment options. How to Apply 1. Review our enrollment options and application deadlines Prospective students have three enrollment options to choose from. After deciding on an enrollment plan, it is important to review application deadlines because they differ depending on your program and enrollment option of choice. 2. View your application checklist Domestic Applicants (U.S. citizen or permanent U.S. resident) First-Year Transfer International Applicants First-Year Transfer 3. Complete your application through the Common Application Select Syracuse University as a choice of school. Complete the Common Application and submit to Syracuse University. Begin your application Fee Waiver: We strive to support all students and families who wish to apply to Syracuse University. If you are interested in a fee waiver, please review the eligibility requirements and instructions . Please contact us at orange@syr.edu if you have any questions. Optional First Semester Abroad: Applicants to the College of Arts and Sciences have the option of applying for Discovery Programs which allow students to spend the fall semester of their freshman year in Florence, Madrid, or Strasbourg. Applicants to the College of Engineering have the option of spending the fall semester of their freshman year in Madrid. If you wish to apply for a Discovery Program, select "Yes" in the drop down menu on the Common App. An additional Discovery Program application supplement is required and will be sent to you via email after you submit your Common App. Veterans: Please use the veterans and military-connected students online application . 4. Check to see if your college requires any additional materials View our college-specific application requirements . If you need to send additional application materials to Syracuse University, please use the appropriate application mailing address . 5. Send your standardized test scores to Syracuse University Please use the following codes: SAT: 2823 ACT: 2968 Test Optional Note: Given the extraordinary circumstances facing high school students and families due to the COVID-19 pandemic, SAT/ACT scores will not be required for students applying for fall 2022 admission. Students who are unable to submit test scores, or who choose not to, will not be disadvantaged and will remain eligible for merit scholarships. Please read the full details surrounding this update here. Already Applied? Review the admission notification timeline and check your application status online. You can track the status of your application online through MySlice . In order to access your MySlice account you must first activate your NetID and password , which will require your SUID. Your SUID was included in the email sent to you from Syracuse University confirming receipt of your application. If you did not receive this email (be sure to check your spam folder), please write to us at orange@syr.edu . Note: You will not receive an admission decision through MySlice, but will be able to track “My Missing Application Materials” within the Admissions To Do items of MySlice. An admission decision notification will be sent via e-mail and is sometimes followed by notification in the mail. Please allow up to seven days from the date your materials are submitted for items to be reflected as complete in our system. We will send you e-mail notices as key application materials are received and, therefore, completed. Your admission to Syracuse University is contingent upon maintaining the same level of academic achievement, graduating from secondary school, and having a record of good citizenship at all times. The University expects our students to conduct themselves in a manner that aligns with and is supportive of the educational mission of the institution. Integrity, respect for others, and a commitment to intellectual and personal growth within a diverse, global society, are fundamental to membership in this University community. Civic engagement is strongly encouraged. Admissions decisions will not be affected by participation in or disciplinary action associated with peaceful, meaningful protest. Frequently Asked Questions Link What parts of the Common Application are required for Syracuse University? Where can I find additional assistance on completing the Common Application? How do I submit my application if I have a fee waiver? I'm applying Early Decision. Where do I find the ED Agreement form? Will I receive confirmation when Syracuse University receives my application? What is the word count max/min for the questions in the Additional Information section? More frequently asked questions Related Pages First-Year Requirements If you are currently enrolled in or have graduated from an accredited secondary school, please apply as a first-year student. Transfer Requirements If you enrolled in an institution of higher education as a full-time student after graduating from secondary school and received graded credit in academic coursework, please apply as a transfer student. International Requirements You're considered an international student if you are not a U.S. citizen, if you are a dual citizen with the U.S., or if you are a permanent resident of the U.S. Undergraduate Majors and Minors Choose from more than 200 majors and over 100 minors and embrace the interdisciplinary nature of Syracuse University’s academic options. Veterans and Military Admissions We’re grateful for your service and stand ready to assist you in making the transition from boots to books! Whether you’re looking to take courses part time, full time or online, we’ll help you find the flexibility you need to create the best path to your future. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy