Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Educational Psychology & Research Faculty and Staff Research Clinical Services Grants & Contracts Alumni & Friends Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact EDPR Menu About EDPR Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate EDPR minorM.S.Online M.S.Ph.D.Graduate Certificate in Qualitative ResearchGraduate Certificate in Quantitative Research Courses Faculty News Student Resources Admissions ApplyInternational StudentsGraduate AssistantshipsGraduate Catalog View our brochure! Like us on Facebook! Frequently Asked Questions Take Action Apply Now! Student Organizations in CEPR Department News Contact Us Home Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research EDPR Educational Psychology & Research <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> The Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) program consists of two degree programs: master’s (M.S.) and doctorate (Ph.D.). Research is a high priority in both degree programs. The programs utilize an intensive research apprenticeship model to enhance students’ research experiences. For both academic and engaged research, students may find that the university’s urban setting offers rich and diverse research opportunities, including working with local schools and community organizations. Students in each program must complete a set of core courses in EDPR. They also need to choose a variety of elective courses in human development, cognition, motivation, and research methods including a quantitative approach and a qualitative approach. These courses often feature classical and contemporary theories, hands-on research experiences and recent development in educational psychology and research. Our Master of Science (M.S.) program is available with different pathways for students to study toward their M.S. on campus, online, or in a hybrid mode. They all require a minimum of 30 credit hours. These pathways are meant to offer equal learning experiences for those who would like to pursue a graduate degree while working full time or attending the program from a remote location. The M.S. program prepares students for working in diverse education-related fields. Upon graduation, many graduates from the M.S. program advance their professional careers. With a strong emphasis on research in its curriculum, the program also prepares aspiring students for entering the Ph.D. program or a social science research career. The Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) program has two pathways: (1) Entering the program with a Master’s degree to complete a minimum of 54 credit hours or (2) entering the program with a Bachelor’s degree to complete a minimum of 72 credit hours. Students with a bachelor’s or master’s degree are encouraged to apply. The Ph.D. program prepares graduates for careers that require a research background and expertise. Past graduates from the Ph.D. program have become university professors, senior administrators, organization directors, senior researchers and analysts in both public and private sectors. Please see our Graduate Student Handbook for detailed information about our programs and processes. As you browse our website, feel free to contact us with any questions that you might have. We hope that you will also learn more about our department, college, and university. Frequently Asked Questions Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/3/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.