Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory The College Support for Faculty & Advisors Teaching and Curriculum Student Course Feedback Student Course Feedback Overview Information about students’ experiences in a course is one important component - among many - in a larger system for the review of teaching. Brown University adopted its first online student course feedback system in 2008. Following a review of this system, more user-friendly and flexible form launched in the 2019-20 academic year. During the customization period (see below for system dates), in addition to the standard set of questions, instructors and department chairs or program directors can develop a limited number of custom questions or select from a bank of questions designed by the review committee in consultation with the Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning (both the standard and optional sets of questions are available below). Instructors and administrators may access the system, including reports, by logging in to Canvas or to https://brown.evaluationkit.com using their Brown credentials. Once feedback forms open, students can access the surveys by logging in to Canvas or brown.evaluationkit.com using their Brown username and password. A grade block feature prevents students from viewing their final grade in a given course until they either complete a form or indicate that they prefer not to. Instructors cannot read feedback until grades are submitted and feedback forms are not connected to any identifying student information, making submissions anonymous. Student Course Feedback Form Brown University Course Feedback Form Optional Item Banks Quick Guide to the Course Feedback Form Download a Quick Guide with an overview of the system here. Course Feedback Frequently Asked Questions Answers to frequently asked questions are available at http://brown.edu/go/coursefeedbackfaq. Pedagogical Support For questions or a consultation related to interpreting student feedback or other non-technical matters, please email [email protected]. Technical Support Instructors and Administrators may find self-service resources in this article in the IT Knowledgebase. Access for new chairs, department managers, or other administrators: submit a new ticket using the Access Request Form (select "Course Feedback (as of Summer 2019)" as selecting "Banner Course Evals" will request access for the legacy system used prior to summer 2019). Students should contact the Help Desk ([email protected]) to report problems or use the "Help: Report a Problem" link in Canvas. System Dates SPRING SEMESTER DATES DESCRIPTION Monday, March 15 - Wednesday, March 31 Customization and Review Period: 1) Department administrators should verify the accuracy of courses, instructors, and teaching assistants (TAs assigned in Canvas would automatically be migrated to the course feedback system); they may also develop or select custom questions, and delay the date the system opens for students; 2) Instructors may choose to develop or select custom questions. *Note -- administrators and instructors will not be able to see courses for the current semester until the customization period opens. 9:00 a.m. ET on Monday, April 12 - 5:00 p.m. ET on Monday, May 17 Course Feedback Forms open to Brown undergraduate and graduate students via Canvas and brown.evaluationkit.com. The open date is typically scheduled one week prior to Reading Period to enable faculty to use classtime for students to complete their course feedback forms. Departments may choose to set the opening of their evaluations on a later date. 5:00 p.m. ET Wednesday, May 19 Course Feedback Forms close, generally on the last day that faculty may submit grades 48-72 hours later Feedback forms available to academic departments in Canvas and brown.evaluationkit.com Related Files 1. Brown-University-Course-Feedback-Form.pdf Home Academic Advising Teaching and Curriculum Class Attendance College Curriculum Council Course Development Funds Student Course Feedback 2017-18 Review of the Course Feedback Form Final Exams, Extensions, and Accommodations Supporting Students in Distress Registration and Grade Options Undergrad Teaching Assistants Faculty Prizes Print this Page Share this Page Dean of the College Brown University Box 1828 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-9800 Shibboleth login Shibboleth Login Quick Links Calendar There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Custom Footer 1 WebServices BrownSites Documentation BrownSites Demo Custom Footer 2 Your Custom Links PAUR Media Relations Web Style Guide