Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Graduate Student Government Grad Student Government right arrow down arrow About us right arrow down arrow GSG Executive Board GSG Constitution right arrow down arrow GSG Bylaws GSG Member Groups List Awards right arrow down arrow Group Budget Awards Group & Community Grant Awards Conference Awards GSG Excellence Awards right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Risk Management Awareness Award GSG Research Fellowship Awards Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Talk to Us Programs right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Orientation and Welcome right arrow down arrow GSA Officer Orientation Home » Campus Life » Graduate Student Government » Programs Set Navigation title in component Graduate Student Orientation and Welcome GSA Officer Orientation Programs Through its programs, the GSG provides opportunities for graduate students that promote academic excellence, enhance the student community and also provide leadership and service opportunities to all graduate students. Replace with your text Some of our signature events are described below. Apart from these the GSG organizes Professional development workshops in collaboration with the various organizations on campus, social events such as the Thanksgiving Dinner, Trivia Night, Soccer Tournament and many more enjoyable events that bring the graduate student community closer. Signature Programs GSG Charity Spring Ball The GSG Charity Spring Ball was introduced in 2018 to celebrate graduate students’ achievements throughout the academic year and promote the values of diversity and inclusiveness. A formal black-tie event, with a different theme every year, the charity ball features musical entertainment, speakers, a three-course meal and the presentation of the GSG Excellence awards. Proceeds from the ball go to different charities as decided by the General Assembly. Graduate Student Orientation and Welcome Introduced in 2019, the Grad Student Orientation and Welcome serves to welcome all incoming graduate students to the University of Cincinnati and help them get familiarized with various resources that UC has to offer. The event features an Information Session with various resources from around campus, a Welcome Reception and a Networking session with food and refreshments. Thanksgiving Dinner The GSG hosts its annual traditional Thanksgiving dinner during Thanksgiving week bringing together graduate students across UC. Graduate students experience the history and traditions behind Thanksgiving and enjoy a delicious meal whilst sharing their Thanksgiving traditions and socializing with other students, faculty and administrators. Halloween Party One of the most popular events organized by GSG, the Halloween party serves to provide a cheerful event for Graduate students to socialize and interact with the rest of the community. Graduate Students dressed in a wide variety of costumes along with their families enjoy a buffet, participate in a costume contest, experience a photobooth and participate in a raffle! Grad Cafe A social mixer event where Graduate students have the opportunity to socialize with their fellow graduate students, enjoy some breakfast and learn about campus resources at every meeting. Guest speakers from different places at UC are invited to interact with Graduate students. Graduate Student Government 683 Steger Student Life Center University of Cincinnati PO Box 210193 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6101 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate Student Government 683 Steger Student Life Center University of Cincinnati PO Box 210193 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6101 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top