Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The Office of Campus Ministry works to foster lives of faith and justice among the students, faculty, and staff of Boston College. We contribute to the formation of the whole person by inviting participants to recognize the call of God in their lives, commit to ongoing faith formation, and model lives of prayer, reflection, and service. Play Racial Justice Claire Johnson Allen, Associate Director of the Women's Center, on how Ignatian spirituality encourages us to find and use our gifts to address injustice. Visit the Campus Ministry YouTube page to see more Preaching from Sr. Thea's Kitchen videos. Campus Ministry YouTube Mulit-Faith Programs We invite students of all faith traditions—or even students of no faith, who might be searching for faith—to join us in integrating their religious life into their years at Boston College. Explore Multi-Faith Programs Service Immersion Roughly 13 percent of undergraduate students participate in Campus Ministry’s local, domestic, and international service-immersion opportunities each year, bringing to life the idea of being “for and with others.” Explore Service Opportunities Liturgical Life Liturgy at Boston College is an experience of true community. Interested in getting involved as a liturgical musician, or serving as a lector or eucharistic minister? Share your gifts with our worship communities. Explore Liturgy Christian Life Community Christian Life Community (CLC) meets weekly in small groups to build community, faith, and friendship. The hope of each CLC group is to seek to listen more deeply to God and to each other. Learn more Kairos Meaning “God’s Time” in Greek, Kairos is a student-run retreat that allows undergraduates the opportunity to step back from the many demands of college life to intentionally reflect on their relationships with God, with themselves, and with others. Learn More Play Reflect The Examen is at the foundation of Ignatian spirituality. This popular prayer is led every Wednesday at 9:45 p.m. in the Manresa House by the Ignatian Society, offering the opportunity to look over the week and recognize God in our lives. All are welcome! Learn more Weekly Update Mass Schedule Meet the Staff Pastoral Counseling Rise and Reflect Follow @bccampusmin on Instagram Campus Ministry Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry McElroy 233 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3475 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College