Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Apply Programs Campus Life Resources News Support UofM Lambuth Contact Us Follow UsFacebooktwitter Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Home UofM Lambuth Campus Life Campus Life Student Engagement Student OrganizationsInter-Club CouncilStudent Government CouncilEvent Allocation FormLeadership TrainingCommunity EngagementSpirit InitiativesFreshmen ExperiencesMulticultural Affairs Outreach & Support Student AccountabilityCounseling ServicesCrisis ResourcesTigers Fight HungerParent ServicesVeterans Student Employment Campus Rec Residence Life Conference Housing Dining Services Sustainability Adult, Transfers, Parenting Students Report a Concern about a Student Contact Student Services Take Action Lambuth Admissions Lambuth Academy News & Events Contact Us The best combination of serious and fun. Our students are always focused on their academics, but we have fun along the way. Lots of it. Outside of the classroom, this intimate campus is a vibrant, fun place to be—made up of diverse groups. You will live, play and connect in a classic college environment, with picnics on the quad, movies, cool concerts and other special events tailored to appeal to UofM Lambuth students. We keep campus life interesting and exciting. Our students are worth it. Looking for ways to get involved on campus, meet other students, and gain leadership experience? Join a student organization, participate in Tiger Leadership Institute, or attend an event on campus! New Student? If this is your first semester as a UofM Lambuth student, stop by the Student Services office (Wilder CU 002, across from the mailroom in the basement) for your welcome bag and to get acquainted with this campus, our office, and what services we provide. Follow us! For more information about Student Involvement and Leadership, contact us. Whether you are an incoming student, current student, parent, or something else, we want you to follow us! Our primary account is Instagram. Follow us there for event promotion, student position advertisements, and to get a good feel for the campus climate. Follow us on Facebook for information relevant to the entire campus and community. Follow us on Twitter for real time updates, and the occasional game. Where’s Baby TJ, anyone? Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.