Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Jobs Jobs Quick Links Faculty Jobs Staff Jobs Student Jobs Human Resources Faculty Affairs The University of Texas at Austin is a nationally ranked, tier-one research institution and one of the largest employers in central Texas, offering thousands of career opportunities in a wide variety of fields. UT is located in the heart of Austin, a vibrant city that frequently appears on lists of best cities to live and work. Committed to recruiting and retaining a diverse and talented workforce, the university offers competitive salaries and benefits, an extensive support network, and above all, an enriching and highly collaborative community that is deeply passionate about our vision for higher education and public service. Insurance Eligible university employees enjoy a variety of insurance options, including employer-paid medical coverage for full-time employees and 50 percent employer-paid medical coverage for part-time employees. Eligible employees may also select dental, vision, short- and long-term disability coverage, and more. Retirement The State of Texas offers eligible UT Austin employees two retirement program options, both of which include generous employer contributions. Time Off Eligible employees who work at least 20 hours per week for 4.5 continuous months are entitled to multiple paid leave options including Annual Leave, Paid Holiday Leave and Sick Leave. Certain employees may also earn compensatory time off, in accordance with Texas state law. Faculty Affairs The university offers numerous policies, services and resources to support our faculty in an inclusive climate of advancement and growth. Employee Educational Benefit UT Austin supports the continued professional development of our employees, covering the cost of tuition for one eligible University of Texas at Austin course per semester for eligible employees. Employee Perks and Campus Resources Enjoy a wide range of additional perks sponsored by Human Resources, including CareerSmart Professional Development and Learning, HealthPoint Work/Life Balance and Wellness Programs, Lynda.com Online Learning, and more. In addition, employees have access to extensive UT resources and free or discounted admission to certain museums, centers and events. Faculty Jobs Search for tenured, tenure-track, and non-tenure track faculty positions at UT Austin. Faculty Jobs Staff Jobs Search for full-time, part-time, and temporary staff positions at UT Austin. Staff Jobs Student Jobs UT Austin employs more than 10,000 students each semester with academic, non-academic, Federal Work-Study, and non-Work-Study jobs. Search Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022