Skip to main content *For more information, please visit the Campus Services website Services Buildings & Facilities CommuterChoice Dining Energy & Utilities Housing ID Cards Mail Parking Printing Real Estate Sustainability Transit & Fleet Travel Departments Dining Energy & Facilities Events Management Global Support Services Harvard Faculty Club Harvard International Office Harvard Real Estate Harvard University Housing Office for Sustainability Transportation Find a Resource Tools About Us Contact Us/Directions Staff Overview / Mission Harvard EH&S Policy ESCOs Annual Reports Job Openings News & Updates EH&S Main menu Buildings & Facilities Construction Support Emergency Management Laboratories Training Secondary menu COVID-19 Resources You are here EHS Home > COVID-19 Resources Environmental Health & Safety COVID-19 Resources COVID-19 Resources The resources in this area inform and educate Harvard University personnel and reduce the on-campus risks associated with COVID-19. These resources include guidance documents, fact sheets, operational environmental control procedures (ECP), trainings, and COVID-19-specific services (e.g., remote workstation evaluations). In addition to the below frequently accessed featured resources, the document library contains a master list of web-based COVID-19 resources. Resource additions and updates are tabulated and described in Resource Updates. Featured Resources Harvard University On Campus Activity Guidance → This guidance provides relevant and updated COVID-19 requirements and recommendations for on campus activities. Building/Facilities Operations, Systems, & Management FAQs → Frequently asked questions for Harvard University managers, supervisors, and other personnel seeking technical information on operating during the COVID-19 pandemic. Environmental Control Procedure List → A collection of procedures designed to reduce the risk of COVID-19 during certain Harvard University operations. Service Contractors & Vendors → Resources and frequently asked questions related to service contractor management during the COVID-19 pandemic. Share the Service Contractor Checklist with your service contractors/vendors to inform them of critical COVID-19 safety precautions and safe work practices. Resource Updates May 19, 2022 Update: Harvard University On Campus Activity Guidance The following sections have been updated: Face Coverings Viral Testing Please see the May 19, 2022 Updates section for a detailed summary of the most recent changes. The full change log, which includes all prior revision summaries, can be found at the end of the guidance. May 3, 2022 Update: Building/Facilities Operations, Systems, & Management: Frequently Asked Questions Requirements to conduct enhanced cleaning following notification of positive COVID-19 cases in non-healthcare facilities were removed. The CDC reiterates the low risk of SARS-CoV-2 transmission via surface contamination. May 2, 2022 Update: Harvard University On Campus Activity Guidance The following sections have been updated: Cleaning and Disinfection Quarantine Vaccination Viral Testing Please see the May 2, 2022 Updates section for a detailed summary of the most recent changes. The full change log, which includes all prior revision summaries, can be found at the end of the guidance. April 20, 2022 Update: Harvard University On Campus Activity Guidance The following sections have been updated: Federal Guidance Massachusetts and Local Requirements Face Coverings Please see the April 20, 2022 Updates section for a detailed summary of the most recent changes. The full change log, which includes all prior revision summaries, can be found at the end of the guidance. April 20, 2022 Update: Face Coverings: General Use Consistent with current federal and local guidelines, this document was updated to remove the mask requirement for public and private transportation, including University shuttles and buses. Face coverings are still recommended in these settings. All Resource Updates → Harvard University Resources Crimson Clear Online Portal Crimson Clear Printable Attestation Baseline Viral Testing Research Laboratory Re-Entry Plan Steps for Facilities, Office, & Lab Re-Entry Harvard University Human Resources Harvard University Health Services (HUHS) Harvard University Coronavirus Website External Resources Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Massachusetts COVID-19 Updates and Information City of Boston City of Cambridge COVID-19 Resources Home Document Library Resource Updates By Service Area Buildings & Facilities Laboratories & Research University-Wide Activity & Workplace Planning Building & Workplace Signage Design Instructions & Guidance Floor Stickers, Decals, Etc. Generic Templates Health Related HPAC Messaging Templates Personal Responsibility Related Translated Materials Wayfinding & Space Types Service Contractors & Vendors Training © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College EH&S Management Policy | Contact EH&S | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility Help Us Improve Our Website Energy & Facilities Building Maintenance Elevators Fire Safety Transportation Shuttle Information Evening Van Service Charters University Operations Center Building Automation Fire Alarm Reporting Wireless Communication RELATED SERVICES | HARVARD.EDU | PRIVACY POLICY