Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Online Admissions Fees Online Admissions Apply Now Request Information Tuition & Fees Financial Aid OverviewFAQs Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us UofM Global Tuition and Fees Join the many other UofM Global students who save thousands of dollars annually by eliminating additional housing and transportation expenses, and take advantage of our streamlined tuition, creative payment methods and unique cost reduction strategies. In order to ensure you're reviewing the current year fees and tuition, please visit our University & Student Business Services site. Fee Charts & Other Tuition Information > Tuition Estimator > *Guaranteed Tuition Plan is available to all first-time, first year undergraduate resident, non-resident, international and UofM Global students. Learn more about the Access Memphis Guaranteed Tuition Plan > *Tuition rates are subject to change. Additional fees may apply to courses in the following categories: Broadcast and Film/Video, Communication Sciences and Disorders, Engineering, Fine Arts, Performing Arts, Teacher Education, Business, and Nursing. Contact us for additional information on any fees that may apply. See fee payment deadlines for important dates regarding tuition. Cost Reduction Opportunities Select an Option for Cost Reduction: Scholarships All scholarships are listed on the Tiger Scholarship Manager. Students can search my major, interest, department, etc. to see the many options available. Learn More About Scholarship Opportunities > Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) Experiential Learning, the opportunity to earn credit for college-level work or life experience. ELC can be earned via pre-assessed experiences such as professional certifications as well as a customized portfolio built on your unique college credit-worthy learning experiences. This option can significantly reduce time and costs for your degree program! Learn More About ELC > Credit by Examination (CBE) Credit by Exam includes national tests like CLEP (College-Level Examination Program by College Board), DSST, and specific departmental exams. This option allows you to consider testing out of classes based on comfort and prior knowledge and can significantly reduce time and costs of your undergraduate program. Learn More About CBE > Fee Discount and Waivers UofM honors many discount and waiver options. Learn More About Potential Waivers > Payment Methods You can also skip the traditional fees with UofM Global using one of our Cost Reduction methods! We are pleased to share a variety of options to help you pay for tuition and reduce costs. Select one of the options below to learn more about how you can continue an affordable education through UofM Global. Select a Payment Method: Installment Plan The University of Memphis offers an installment plan option for fall and spring terms to qualified students. To learn more please visit: Installment Plan. Learn More about Installment Plans > Employer Tuition Reimbursement Many of our UofM Global students work while completing their degree and are reimbursed by their employer for earned hours toward a degree program. If you are working while completing your degree check with your Human Resource Department to see if this option is available for you. Employer Tuition Direct Bill In support of UofM Global students earning credit toward a degree program while working a number of employers have chosen to participate in our Direct Bill Payment Plan. The Direct Bill Payment Plan allows the UofM to direct bill an employer for qualifying students. If your employer is not listed please have the appropriate representative contact us to explore setting up the Direct Bill Payment Plan for you and your co-workers. Explore Direct Bill Options & Companies > Military Payment Options UofM Global is committed to assisting our military and veterans with using their benefits via the Veterans Educational Benefits and Certification. Learn More > Payment by Credit Card or ACH (Electronic Check) The University accepts credit card, ACH, and check payments. View Payment Methods > APPLY NOW Ready to get started as a UofM Global student? Submit Your Application > About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/10/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.