Indoor face covering requirements reinstated through June 13. More COVID-19 information. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply UC Riverside University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside Search About About Overview Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Find Information for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges and Schools UCR Extension Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost Veteran Admissions Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Research Research Overview Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Library Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Campus Life Campus Life Overview Events Campus Map Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety Botanic Gardens Housing Dining About Riverside Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply Centers and Facilities Breadcrumb Research Centers and Facilities Research Centers and Facilities Every day in our labs, classrooms and field research we are generating new knowledge to help make our community and world a better place. With corporate partners, we are able to bring a wide range of innovations to the marketplace that mitigate air pollution, improve water quality, grow sustainable agriculture, and improve quality of health. Related Topics Research Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Examples of our World-Class Research Centers Brain Game Center More Information Catalysis Center More Information Center for Advanced Neuroimaging More Information CEDI More Information CFAMM More Information Center for Spatial Sciences More Information HPCC More Information UC Mexus More Information Major research universities like UC Riverside also develop and operate a variety of specialized facilities and instrumentation to support the campus research and education enterprise. These services are accessible on a fee-for-service and availability basis. EXPLORE UCR FACILITIES Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 1156 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webteam@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Return UCR Admissions UCR News Colleges and Schools Graduate Division UCR Jobs UCR Health Giving Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel