Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Engineering Career Services Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search College of Engineering Home Page About Career Services Home Who We Are Mission & Policies Other ISU Career Services Students Current Students Future Students Employers Alumni Faculty & Staff Statistics (Outcomes & Salary) CyHire Student Login Alumni Login Employer Login Faculty Login System Manager Login Information for Employers Thank you for your interest in recruiting from the College of Engineering at Iowa State University! Engineering Career Services helps employers connect with thousands of current students and alumni who are prepared to make a difference in the world through creative, innovative engineering solutions. With the exception of the Career Fair and Mass Interview Day events, all employer services are provided free of charge. More information can be found by following the links on this page, but please don’t hesitate to contact us if you have any questions. Please take advantage of the following recruiting activities: Post Positions in CyHire: This is the primary way to make ISU students and alumni aware of your open positions year-round. Participate in Career Fairs: Each semester the College of Engineering hosts some of the nation’s largest career fairs with thousands of students seeking co-ops, internships, and post-graduation positions. Interview on Campus: Each semester, the day after an in-person career fair is the Mass Interview Day event. Throughout the rest of the semester, reserving interview rooms is free, convenient, and shown to improve your recruiting success. We can also assist with coordinating virtual interviews. Hold an Info Session: This is a great way to network and increase name recognition with students. These can take place on campus or virtually. Hire for Co-ops and Internships: Complete projects and identify the potential for post-graduation hires. Download our Guide to Hiring ISU Engineers for an abbreviated version of the information found on the above-linked pages. More Employer Information Additional Ways to Connect with Students: Get involved in student activities and projects to increase name recognition and see emerging engineering talent in action. Partner with ISU: Explore the ways you can build your relationship with Iowa State’s College of Engineering to develop engineers, expand knowledge, improve technologies, and make new discoveries. Learn More About the College of Engineering: College of Engineering Overview Brochure Please note: since the publication of this brochure, the Cyber Security minor has become a full major in the Electrical and Computer Engineering department. Engineering Programs Document – This document provides more in-depth information about our departments and their programs. College of Engineering Web Pages and the ISU catalog. Four-Year Plans for Engineering Majors Demographics, Placement Rates, Salary Information Increase Your Company’s Diversity and Global Perspective Diversity Recruiting Employing International Students Engineering Career Services’ Mission & Policies Special Announcement: Iowa employers may qualify for grants from the Iowa Economic Development Authority to help pay the cost of employing interns. IOWA STUDENT INTERNSHIP PROGRAM The Iowa Student Internship Program provides grants to small and medium-sized companies in bioscience, advanced manufacturing or information technology. This helps to offset the financial portion of intern wages. Fall 2021, Spring 2022 and Summer 2022 Iowa Student Internship Program Applications are open until April 30, 2022 or until funds are depleted. For more information and to apply go to: https://www.iowaeconomicdevelopment.com/student STEM INTERNSHIP PROGRAM The Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Internship program provides grants to Iowa companies that offer internships to students of Iowa community colleges, private colleges, regents universities or to students who graduated from an Iowa high school and attend a college or university outside of Iowa. The application for Fall 2021, Spring 2022, and Summer 2022 is now open until April 30, 2022. For more information and to apply https://www.iowaeconomicdevelopment.com/stem Employer Quick Links Employer FAQs Career Fair Information Important Dates Interview on Campus Hold an Information Session Policies CyHire Login Employers Contact Information Engineering Career Services 3200 Marston Hall Iowa State University Ames, IA 50011 E-mail: ecs@iastate.edu Phone: 515 294-2540 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram MyState Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...