Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Admission Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Admission Apply to the Morrissey College Graduate School We welcome dedicated students of all backgrounds to the Boston College intellectual community. Both academically rigorous and highly personalized, our M.A., M.S., and Ph.D. programs will prepare you to advance your career and the common good. How to Apply Find your program. MCAS Graduate Programs Review general application requirements. General Requirements Departments often have unique requirements and deadlines. Carefully review the specific requirements for your program. Department Requirements & Deadlines Get Started Apply Request Info MCGS Admissions General Requirements Print Nondegree options are available to those students interested in pursuing coursework at the graduate level but not looking to enter a degree program. Fifth Year options are available to current BC undergraduate students in select academic departments. Application Form Please consult department requirements before beginning the application form. All required documents, with the exception of official transcripts (required post-matriculation) and test scores must be submitted before being able to complete the application form and create an admissions file. Letters of recommendation may be received and processed after your application form has been submitted. Apply Now Fee The MCGS application fee is $75 and may be paid online after submitting your application form. An application fee (or approved application fee waiver) is required to complete your application. All application fee waiver requests must be uploaded to the 'Application Fee Waiver Request' section of the 'Document Uploads' page within the MCGS online application form. Applicants must submit their application form in order to be considered for a fee waiver. No consideration is granted by email or prior to submission. Requests will be reviewed periodically by admissions office staff. If granted, it will be reflected on the applicant's status page. Application fees are waived for current BC students and employees. Please upload correspondence alerting us to your status and the application fee requirement will be waived following verification. Application fees are waived for active duty military and veterans, current full-time volunteers with recognized, non-profit service organizations (e.g. JVC, Americorps, Teach for America, etc.) and students participating in underrepresented student educational programs at the time of applying (e.g. McNair Scholars, Institute for the Recruitment of Teachers, etc.). Please include official documentation confirming current status with dates (e.g. a letter from your McNair advisor, confirmation of military status, etc.) for review. Applicants for whom the application fee would constitute a serious financial hardship may also request a fee waiver. Requests are granted, in most cases, if accompanied by official documentation demonstrating financial need (e.g. a currently enrolled student should seek a letter from his/her financial aid officer). If it is not possible to provide official documentation, the applicant should submit a detailed description of his/her current financial situation. Such requests will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Only the MCGS Admissions Office can grant fee waivers. Applicants cannot obtain a fee waiver directly from an academic department or other offices at Boston College. Transcripts University/college transcripts are required from all post-secondary education institutions attended. Unofficial transcripts submitted through the online application form are acceptable for review purposes during the application process, however, official copies of all transcripts reviewed for admission must be submitted upon acceptance/matriculation, no later than July 15. Transcripts are only considered official when submitted to the MCGS Admissions Office and received directly from official academic sources (i.e. school registrars) in signed/sealed envelopes from each institution; Documents uploaded, attached or otherwise opened by students are always considered unofficial. Official transcripts may be submitted via document management services such as Parchment and the National Student Clearinghouse; Be sure to designate "Boston College GSAS/MCGS" or gsasinfo@bc.edu as the order recipient, not "Boston College" or any other BC office listed. If you have previously attended BC you must request complete transcripts of your work from the Office of Student Services. All documents in languages other than English should include a certified English translation in addition to the original language document. Transcript evaluations from credentialing organizations such as WES are acceptable, but not required. Students who submit applications prior to the completion of their undergraduate work are expected to file a final transcript showing all coursework, degree granted, and conferral date. The same procedure is required of applicants currently engaged in graduate study at other institutions. This is necessary for final confirmation of the Graduate School's offer of admission. Your final transcript should be sent to us as soon as you have completed your present course of study. International students please note: Only official copies of your transcript will fulfill the language proficiency requirement on your application if you qualify for a waiver. Please review the International Students tab below for more information. Letters of Recommendation Applicants may register recommenders to submit their letters electronically while completing the application form. MCGS also accepts letters via Interfolio as official; Please arrange to have Interfolio documents emailed to gsasinfo@bc.edu after completing the 'Recommendations' section of the application form in full. Photocopies of letters are not acceptable. Three letters of recommendation should accompany most MCGS applications, unless otherwise noted by a department/program. Please review department requirements for particulars. One additional recommendation beyond stated requirements is acceptable. Generally, letters should be from people who have most recently taught you in the field in which you expect to study. If you are now or have for some time been out of school, one letter should be from your employer, supervisor, or another person familiar with your recent professional activities. If you are currently enrolled in or have been enrolled in another graduate school, at least one letter must be from the graduate instructor most familiar with your work. Statement of Purpose Most departments require a brief (1-2 pages) personal statement in which applicants should discuss their preparation, motivation, and goals for their proposed courses of study. If you have any questions about the statement please contact the department in which you plan to study. Standardized Tests GRE Test Scores If applying to a program requiring GRE scores, official GRE score reports must be submitted to complete applications. (Please consult department requirements for reference by program). GRE scores are only official when received directly from ETS. The Boston College MCGS school code is 3083 (no department code is required). GRE score reports are valid for five years from the test date. Writing Sample If applying to a program requiring a writing sample, (please consult department requirements for reference) these generally constitute a scholarly work in a student’s intended field of study and are no longer than 20-25 pages. If you have any additional/specific questions pertaining to writing samples, please inquire further with your intended academic department. International Students The Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences has the same requirements for application from international students with one addition, evidence of English proficiency. TOEFL/IELTS Test Scores Students who speak a native language other than English must provide evidence of English proficiency. A score of 100 or higher on the TOEFL iBT test or 7.0 or higher on the IELTS test is required. TOEFL and IELTS scores are considered valid from exams taken a maximum of two years prior to application program deadlines and only official score reports are accepted (scores are only official when received directly from testing agencies, not uploaded or attached by applicants). Remember to enter Institution Code 3083 when taking the TOEFL exam to ensure GSAS receives your score report (no department code is required). If submitting an IELTS score report, please designate the BC GSAS Admissions Office as your score report recipient. Proof of English proficiency is not required if: You are a citizen of Australia, Canada (except Quebec), Great Britain, Ireland, New Zealand, Guyana, an Anglophone country of Africa, or an English-speaking country of the Caribbean. You earned your prior college or university degree in the U.S. or one of the countries listed above or at an institution whose official language of instruction is English. The language proficiency requirement will be waived from your application upon receipt of an official transcript noting degree conferral from said institution*. You are currently enrolled as a full-time student in a U.S. degree-granting program or at an American or English-speaking school in one of the countries listed above or at an institution whose official language of instruction is English and will have completed two academic years of college/university work before beginning your studies at BC. The language proficiency requirement will be waived from your application upon receipt of an official transcript noting two years/4 semesters completed at said institution*. * Note: Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for application purposes; Official transcripts are not required unless accepted and matriculating. The language proficiency requirement will remain on your file until an official transcript meeting these parameters is received, however, this will not affect the review of your application if you qualify. Please note: Complete applications received by the deadline will be treated with priority. Admission committees may choose not to review incomplete applications. Application materials cannot be returned to a student. If you applied to the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences in a prior admission cycle and are now reapplying, you must submit a new application form and new supporting documents. Materials are not retained once each admission cycle concludes. Do not submit materials to the department to which you are applying. Sending material to the department will only delay the process. Department Requirements and Deadlines In addition to completed application forms and application fees, each academic department has additional requirements noted below. All materials are due by stated application deadlines. Print Open All Close All Biology Programs Offered Ph.D. Additional Requirements 3 Letters of Recommendation Statement of Purpose TOEFL/IELTS for international applicants Deadline Ph.D. - December 3 Program information Chemistry Programs Offered Ph.D. Additional Requirements GRE General Test GRE Subject Test in Chemistry (strongly recommended) 3 Letters of Recommendation Statement of Purpose TOEFL/IELTS for international applicants Deadline Ph.D. - December 15 Program information Classical Studies Programs Offered Latin: M.A. Latin and Greek: M.A. Additional Requirements At least 2 Letters of Recommendation Statement of Purpose Writing Sample recommended TOEFL/IELTS for international applicants Deadline M.A. - February 1 Program information Earth & Environmental Sciences Programs Offered Earth and Environmental Sciences: Ph.D. Geology: M.S. Geophysics: M.S. Additional Requirements 3 Letters of Recommendation Statement of Purpose TOEFL/IELTS for international applicants Deadline Ph.D. - January 10 M.S. - January 10 Program information Economics Programs Offered Ph.D. Additional Requirements GRE General Test 3 Letters of Recommendation Statement of Purpose TOEFL/IELTS for international applicants Deadline Ph.D. - January 2 Program information English Programs Offered Ph.D. M.A. Additional Requirements GRE General Test (optional) GRE Subject Test (optional) - Ph.D. applicants only 3 Letters of Recommendation Statement of Purpose Writing Sample TOEFL/IELTS for international applicants Deadline Ph.D. - January 2 M.A. - February 1 Program information History Programs Offered Ph.D. M.A. Additional Requirements GRE General Test (optional) 3 Letters of Recommendation Statement of Purpose Writing Sample TOEFL/IELTS for international applicants Deadline Ph.D. - January 2 M.A. - February 1 Program information Mathematics Programs Offered Ph.D. Additional Requirements GRE General Test (optional) GRE Subject Test (optional) 3 Letters of Recommendation TOEFL/IELTS for international applicants Deadline Ph.D. - January 20 Program information Middle Eastern Studies Programs Offered M.A. Additional Requirements GRE General Test (optional) 3 Letters of Recommendation Statement of Purpose Writing Sample TOEFL/IELTS for international applicants Deadline M.A. - February 1 Program information Philosophy Programs Offered Ph.D. M.A. M.A. Philosophy and Theology (joint program) Additional Requirements GRE General Test (recommended) 3 Letters of Recommendation Statement of Purpose Writing Sample TOEFL/IELTS for international applicants Deadline Ph.D. - January 2 M.A. - February 1 M.A. Philosophy and Theology (joint program) - February 1 Program information Physics Programs Offered Ph.D. Additional Requirements GRE General Test (recommended) GRE Subject Test (recommended) 3 Letters of Recommendation Statement of Purpose TOEFL/IELTS for international applicants Deadline Ph.D. - January 2 Program information Political Science Programs Offered Political Theory: Ph.D. M.A. American Politics: Ph.D., M.A. Comparative Politics: Ph.D., M.A. International Relations: Ph.D., M.A. Additional Requirements GRE General Test 3 Letters of Recommendation Statement of Purpose Writing Sample TOEFL/IELTS for international applicants Deadline Ph.D. - January 2 M.A. - February 1 Program information Psychology and Neuroscience Programs Offered Cognitive Neuroscience: Ph.D. Behavioral Neuroscience: Ph.D. Developmental Psychology: Ph.D. Social Psychology: Ph.D. Quantitative and Computational Psychology: Ph.D. Additional Requirements GRE General Test (optional) GRE Subject Test (optional) - either Psychology or Biology exam 3 Letters of Recommendation Statement of Purpose TOEFL/IELTS for international applicants Application Mentorship Program Student-run departmental initiative offering mentorship to prospective doctoral students from underrepresented backgrounds Deadline Ph.D. - December 15 Application Mentorship Program - November 30 Program information Romance Languages & Literatures Programs Offered Italian: M.A. French: M.A. Hispanic Studies: M.A. Additional Requirements 2 Letters of Recommendation Statement of Purpose Writing Sample TOEFL/IELTS for international applicants Deadline M.A. - February 1 Program information Sociology Programs Offered Ph.D. M.A. Additional Requirements GRE General Test 3 Letters of Recommendation Statement of Purpose Writing Sample of no more than 20 pages TOEFL/IELTS for international applicants Deadline Ph.D. - January 2 M.A. - February 1 Program information Theology Programs Offered Historical Theology/History of Christianity: Ph.D. Systematic Theology: Ph.D. Comparative Theology: Ph.D. Biblical Studies: Ph.D. Theological Ethics: Ph.D. Philosophy and Theology: M.A. Additional Requirements GRE General Test (required for Ph.D. applicants / recommended for Joint M.A. applicants) 3 Letters of Recommendation Statement of Purpose Writing Sample of no more than 25 pages Curriculum Vitae TOEFL/IELTS for international applicants Deadline Ph.D. - January 2 M.A. Philosophy and Theology (joint program) - February 1 Program information Frequently Asked Questions You're sure to have questions as you explore graduate programs within the Morrissey College of Arts & Sciences. Below are answers to a few of our most frequently asked questions. For more information, please feel free to contact us. Print Open All Close All What is the 2022/2023 rate-per-credit? The 2022-2023 rate per credit hour is $1,884. What is the MCGS application fee? There is a non-refundable $75 fee for each application you submit to MCGS. Can my application fee be waived? The application fee is not usually waived; however, the Graduate School will consider waiver requests meeting specific criteria. Full details regarding the application fee waiver process, requirements and procedure may be found within the Application Fee tab above. An application fee or approved application fee waiver is required to complete your application. May I apply to more than one MCGS program? Yes. Select the 'Start New Application' link presented when logged into your application portal to begin. Separate application forms and requirements in full must be submitted for each application. Official test scores and transcripts may be shared among files. I applied to the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences last year but did not get in. Can I reuse my application materials if I reapply for this year? No, you need to submit a new application form and revised materials. Please contact the Admissions Office to inquire about official test score and/or specific document receipt and reuse. May I apply for admission in any academic quarter? Degree-granting programs generally offer admission starting in the fall term, only. Nondegree course options are available in fall, spring and summer terms. Can I take graduate-level classes at Boston College if I'm not interested in pursuing a degree at this time? Yes, BC MCGS offers Nondegree options. Can I apply directly to a Ph.D program or must I apply to study toward a master's degree first? You do not necessarily need a master's degree to enter into a Ph.D program; however, the faculty will look for the proper coursework, experience, and maturity when admitting applicants into a Ph.D program. What do I need to do to be considered for departmental financial aid? To be considered, your completed application must be submitted to the Graduate School by the appropriate deadline. My former school will not send me my transcripts in sealed envelopes, to be submitted following matriculation. What should I do? Request that the transcripts be sent directly to our Admissions Office. Official transcripts sent when applying will be kept on file. I took one course during the summer at another university. Do you need the course transcript? Yes. Transcripts are required from each post-secondary institution you have attended, including transcripts containing nondegree coursework and, if applicable, transcripts from study-abroad programs. If my transcripts are in a foreign language do I have to send the original copy of my transcripts, as well as the English translation? You must send both, the official transcript in the foreign language and a certified English translation of the transcript. Unofficial copies are acceptable for review purposes during the application process, but you must submit an official copy following matriculation. May I send my supplemental materials to BC before submitting my online application? Yes. If your supplemental materials arrive at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences before you have submitted your application form, we will keep them on file and match to your application once submitted. Please allow at least one standard business day for hard copy items to be processed and reflected as received once your application form is submitted. Will I receive confirmation once I submit my application materials to the Graduate School? No, MCGS maintains a self-managed application process. Applicants can check whether their application requirements have been received through their Application Status Portal. I have been out of school for several years and there is no one who can write an academic recommendation for me. May my employer write one? Ideally, letters of recommendation should come from academic sources. If, however, there is no one who can write an academic recommendation on your behalf, you may seek one from an employer. The faculty review committee is primarily interested in your intellectual abilities and potential for success in graduate study. What is the GRE Institutional Code for the Morrissey College Graduate School? 3083 (No department code is required when sending scores to BC MCGS). My name has changed since taking a required test for admission. Please alert the Admissions Office of your name change. This also applies if your name was different on previous collegiate transcripts. You will need to submit documentation proving the name change. ETS notes that my test scores have been delivered, but my application does not reflect receipt. Please allow for a standard processing time of up to one week from the date when ETS sends the scores until receipt is reflected within your submitted Applicant Status Portal. To avoid delays, ensure our school code (3083) is correctly designated and that names match as entered on score reports and application forms. I am an international student. My TOEFL/IELTS score is more than two years old so official scores are not available. Will you accept a photocopy? TOEFL/IELTS scores are only valid for two years. Official score reports are required. I am a foreign student who has attended/received a degree from an English-speaking institution. Will the TOEFL/IELTS test requirement be waived? Please visit the Transcripts and International Students tabs above for full details regarding the language proficiency requirement. If I meet the required deadlines, when can I expect to receive a decision? Each department sets its own timeline for admissions review. Official notification from the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Admissions Office will be sent via email before the reply-by deadlines of April 15 and May 31 for Ph.D. and master's programs, respectively. What is the process for requesting a deferral? A deferral may be requested for one semester or one academic year only. Deferral requests are considered on a case-by-case basis. The request must be made in writing to Associate Dean of Admissions, Robert Howe, and must indicate the reason(s) for request and duration of the deferral (maximum one academic year). Back To Top Back To Top Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 108 617-552-3265 gsasinfo@bc.edu About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College