Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Information Technology Services Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Get Help IT Portal System Status News Newsroom Email Newsletter Resources For Students For Employees Computer Requirement MFA Outdoor Wi-Fi Remote Work Projects Adobe Acrobat Sign Azure Server Migration Campus Email Storage@ISU WorkCyte Website Teams Digital Accessibility Research Security About About ITS Staff Directory Employment Our Culture Strategic Plan Annual Report ITS employee Bahar Hashemi named Student Employee of the Year Mar 30, 2022 News Recognition Solution center employee recognized for high performance Bahar Hashemi, a senior employed by Information Technology Services, has been named the 2021-22 Iowa State University Student Employee of the Year. Hashemi works as an advanced technical assistant at the IT Solution Center, the university’s central technology help desk located in Parks Library. Hashemi joined the IT Solution Center as a tier 1 technical assistant in 2019. Having advanced to the highest tier of employment – tier 5 – today her responsibilities include handling daily operations and leading special projects. Like all solution center employees, Hashemi provides technical support for the Iowa State community. The solution center serves university students, faculty and staff plus others that include Board of Regents staff, emeritus faculty, new students yet to arrive on campus and even vendors when working on site. Hashemi is also the first student employee tasked with managing her student technician colleagues. “Bahar’s success is largely due to her positive attitude under any circumstance,” said IT Solution Center Director Brent Black. “She focuses on the customer’s point-of-view and delivers the highest level of support, which makes her most deserving of this award.” Bahar Hashemi (left) and Brent Black (right) outside the IT Solution Center in Parks Library As for projects, Hashemi led the migration of the solution center’s knowledge base from its current system to the more agile ServiceNow software. In other words, she successfully led the effort to update the center’s all-encompassing help manual. “The solution center allows me to work with a strong team of leaders who are dedicated to helping others,” said Hashemi. “I’ve had the opportunity to hone my technical skills with a variety of systems and devices, but also practice leadership and patience.” Hashemi received the Student Employee of the Year honor among a pool of 40 nominees campuswide. Three students of distinction were also highlighted: Gwen Davis, Office of Student Financial Aid; Thaddeus Hill, Department of Residence; and Sierra Weldon, ISU Dining. In fact, former ITS student employee Liz Remus was recognized as a student employee of distinction during the 2020-21 award period. Remus now works full-time in the IT Solution Center as a customer success analyst. A recognition ceremony for all 2021-22 nominees was held virtually on February 28 via Webex. As the winning student employee from Iowa State University, Hashemi will also be entered in state and regional competition with the Midwest Association of Student Employment Administrators.    “I’d like to thank my leadership team – Linda, Liz, and especially Brent – as they have supported me, taught me, and enabled me to develop in my career and position.” Hashemi is a senior majoring in computer engineering within the College of Engineering. Upon graduation, she is looking forward to bringing value to a company and applying her learned engineering skills in real-world situations. She is also considering graduate studies in computer engineering or management information systems and will be enjoying more free time to invest in painting. The Iowa State University Student Employee of the Year award was established in 2011. Students are nominated by their supervisors no later than mid-February and judged by a committee of university faculty and staff on the eight career-readiness competencies identified by the National Association of Colleges and Employers, which include problem-solving, communication, teamwork, digital technology, leadership, work ethic, career management and intercultural fluency. Nominees must also be undergraduate students who have served in their positions for a minimum of six months. If you are interested in working as a technical assistant at the IT Solution Center, please visit the ITS employment web page. The solution center hires dedicated student employees year-round; candidates do not need prior technical experience to apply. ITS also hires student employees for other roles that include web development, endpoint services and more. Information Technology Services 271 Durham Center Ames, IA 50011 Submit Website Feedback Need tech support? IT Solution Center 192 Parks Library Ames, IA 50011 solution@iastate.edu 515-294-4000 phone Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information