HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation ABOUT CSL&E ACCEPTED STUDENTS Welcome Week Orientation Orientation Ambassadors CURRENT STUDENTS Leadership and Service Student Organizations Student Involvement FAMILY PROGRAMS FACULTY & STAFF COMMUNITY MEMBERS Parents Fund Make your Parents Fund gift today. Health and Well-Being When you send your student to Clemson, they experience not only a place of academic excellence and athletic prowess, but also an inviting, welcoming family. At Clemson, we view your students as dynamic, well-rounded people, and their holistic health and well-being are our top priority. That’s why we have the Parents Fund – a collection of gifts that help us go above and beyond in making Clemson students’ college experiences safe and healthy. Healthy Bodies Though Clemson students are primarily here to further their education, their physical health and safety are key to creating a positive learning environment. Your gift to the Parents Fund supports several initiatives that encourage physical well-being. The U-Nites program creates opportunities for students to get to know each other, have fun and make great memories in a safe and healthy environment, providing late-night social events like movie showings, trivia nights and comedy shows. The program hosts events in on-campus spaces like The Barnes Center, Clemson’s original “Sheep Barn” that has now been renovated to provide a social space for students. The Student Emergency Fund (SEF) is a fund that offers financial support for Clemson students during times of need and dire emergency. Whether through food or a plane ticket home, the SEF exists to meet specific needs for students who have reached a point of desperation. The Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Center is a new facility next to Lake Hartwell that will encourage physical well-being and relational connection. Outdoor trails, Intramural and Club Sports fields, team-building activities and Clemson’s Outdoor Recreation and Education (CORE) program are only a few of the opportunities available at Snow. Healthy Minds In addition to supporting students’ physical health and safety, your gift to the Parents’ Fund helps to fund initiatives at Clemson that encourage mental stability and well-being. The Samuel J. Cadden Chapel will provide a space on campus for students to celebrate, meditate, worship and remember. The surrounding gardens will create a serene natural area for those who prefer to reflect outdoors in the midst of nature, while a designated memorial area in the chapel gardens will honor all Clemson students who have passed away while students at the University. Clemson’s Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) program now has over 20 licensed clinicians, creating even more opportunities for students to find the necessary resources to pursue mental health. The Parents Fund supports over 600 paid internships on campus every year through programs like the University Professional Internship / Co-op (UPIC) program, making students who participate 20 percent more likely to have a job after graduation and encouraging leadership development in those who take advantage of the opportunities. The Student Veterans Center, a resource that has been available since 2014 to serve Clemson student veterans and provide them a place to connect, is moving from Tillman Hall to Vickery Hall. The new space will be two and a half times the size of the previous location, allowing for more capacity to host around 2,600 visits a semester. CONNECTIONS is a program designed to serve first-year students that identify as a student of color (African-American, Black, Hispanic/Latino, Asian, Native American, multiracial) or a first-generation student. The program offers a living-learning community, peer mentoring and tailored opportunities for participating students to connect with faculty and staff. Annual Gift Clubs Note: The annual gift clubs below designated with an asterisk (*) are Major Gift Clubs. All current members are honored at annual Major Gift Club events and listed in the membership roster. Club Annual Gift Amount Heritage Partners* $25,000+ The Founders* $10,000 - $24,999 Leadership Circle* $10,000+ (unrestricted only) Clemson Fellows* $5,000 - $9,999 Clemson Ambassadors* $2,500 - $4,999 President's Club* $1,000 - $2,499 Silver Tiger $500 - $999 University Club $250 - $499 Century Club $100 - $249 Active Member $1 - $99 Family Takes Everyone As a family, we pride ourselves in supporting each other, but caring for students as well-rounded people both inside and outside the classroom will take all of our contributions. Your gift to the Parents Fund supports many valuable initiatives at Clemson that promote well-being across campus. Make your annual gift to help to keep the Clemson Family strong and healthy! CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster