Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Connecting with Government Owl Advocates Staff News Contact Temple University / Office of Government Affairs and Civic Engagement Search Site or Temple University Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Our Mission Our Mission Who we are, what we do and how we help. Our Mission /government/connecting-government/owl-advocates Owl Advocates How you can get involved. Owl Advocates /government/connecting-government Connecting with Government Connecting with Government Our Mission Our Mission Who we are, what we do and how we help. Our Mission /government/connecting-government/owl-advocates Owl Advocates How you can get involved. Owl Advocates /government/connecting-government Connecting with Government Connecting with Government Through the support of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, city of Philadelphia and the federal government, Temple University’s Office of Government Affairs and Civic Engagement connects the university with elected state and federal officials to elevate the student experience, support innovative research efforts and serve its communities. Connecting with Government https://www.temple.edu/government/connecting-government#local Local https://www.temple.edu/government/connecting-government#local Local https://www.temple.edu/government/connecting-government#state State https://www.temple.edu/government/connecting-government#state State https://www.temple.edu/government/connecting-government#federal Federal https://www.temple.edu/government/connecting-government#federal Federal /government/connecting-government Our Work Learn more about Office of Government Affairs and Civic Engagement efforts with local, state and national officials. Our Work Latest Stories See All Stories Owl takes the helm of Tampa Bay Buccaneers Owl takes the helm of Tampa Bay Buccaneers Owl takes the helm of Tampa Bay Buccaneers Athletics Owl takes the helm of Tampa Bay Buccaneers by Anonymous April 04 On March 30, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers announced that defensive coordinator Todd Bowles, CLA '86, will be taking on the role of head coach following the retirement of "Black Lives Always Mattered!" invites all to see Philadelphia history in living color "Black Lives Always Mattered!" invites all to see Philadelphia history in living color "Black Lives Always Mattered!" invites all to see Philadelphia history in living color Arts & Culture "Black Lives Always Mattered!" invites all to see Philadelphia history in living color January 11 Black Lives Always Mattered!, a graphic novel created by the Charles L. Blockson Afro-American Collection at Temple, was recently published and is now being distributed Honors Program appoints new leadership positions Honors Program appoints new leadership positions Honors Program appoints new leadership positions Campus News Honors Program appoints new leadership positions January 06 Temple University's Honors Program has appointed new leadership following the retirement of its longtime senior director, Ruth Ost. Taking the helm as director will be MacArthur ‘genius grant’ winner Ibram X. Kendi shares how his time at Temple helped shape him MacArthur ‘genius grant’ winner Ibram X. Kendi shares how his time at Temple helped shape him MacArthur ‘genius grant’ winner Ibram X. Kendi shares how his time at Temple helped shape him Student Success MacArthur ‘genius grant’ winner Ibram X. Kendi shares how his time at Temple helped shape him December 14 A historian and National Book Award-winning and New York Times bestselling author, Ibram X. Kendi, CLA '07, '10, is one of the country's most influential scholars, whose The Temple University Jazz Band celebrates the legacy of jazz great Jimmy Heath The Temple University Jazz Band celebrates the legacy of jazz great Jimmy Heath The Temple University Jazz Band celebrates the legacy of jazz great Jimmy Heath Arts & Culture The Temple University Jazz Band celebrates the legacy of jazz great Jimmy Heath October 15 The Temple University Jazz Band celebrates the legacy of Jimmy HeathThe band's new album, Without You, No Me, honors not only Heath, but also celebrated music Go Back HomeMore in Government About Connecting with Government Staff News Contact Search Site or Temple University Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Government Affairs and Civic Engagement Sullivan Hall 1330 Polett WalkPhiladelphia, PA 19121 USA Government Affairs Twitter Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.