Simons Foundation chevron-down--small Program Areas Mathematics and Physical Sciences Life Sciences Autism Research Initiative Simons Collaborations Flatiron Institute Outreach, Education and Engagement Simons Society of Fellows Funding Funding Policies and Procedures Award Instructions News Announcements Articles Videos What We’re Reading Events Simons Foundation Presidential Lectures Simons Foundation Presents About About Us Media Relations Leadership Annual Report Contact Us COVID-19 Program Areas Mathematics & Physical Sciences Life Sciences Autism Research (SFARI) Simons Collaborations Flatiron Institute Outreach & Education Simons Society of Fellows Funding Funding Opportunities Independence Awards Policies and Procedures Award Instructions News Announcements Articles Videos What We’re Reading Events Simons Foundation Presidential Lectures Simons Foundation Presents About About Us Media Relations Leadership Annual Report Contact Us COVID-19 Simons Foundation chevron-down--small Mathematics and Physical Sciences Mathematics and Physical Sciences Funding Request for Applications Programs Policies and Procedures News Events Conferences Symposia Lectures About About Us Scientific Advisory Board Home Mathematics and Physical Sciences Simons Fellows Simons Fellows in Mathematics Policies and Procedures ClosedReopens Summer 2022 Important Dates Application Deadline September 28, 2021 Notification December 31, 2021 Earliest Award Start Date January 1, 2022 Share This RFA How To Apply FAQ Awardees Rationale Basis for Awards Level and Duration of Funding Allowable Expenses Eligibility Requirements Unspent Funds Number of Awards How to Apply Our Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Important Dates Application Deadline September 28, 2021 Notification December 31, 2021 Earliest Award Start Date January 1, 2022 Contact Info Program or Administrative Questions: Elizabeth Roy Senior Manager for Programs and Administration mps@simonsfoundation.org 212-524-6966 Technical Questions: proposalCENTRAL pcsupport@altum.com 800-875-2562 The Simons Foundation’s Mathematics and Physical Sciences (MPS) division invites applications for the Simons Fellows in Mathematics program to make sabbatical research leaves more productive by extending them from a single term to a full academic year. For awards made in 2022, the foundation encourages applications from those severely impacted by COVID-19 and for whom travel during the sabbatical period will be difficult. The foundation aims to support these sabbatical eligible mathematicians, even if remaining at their home institution is the only option. The foundation also strongly encourages applications from scientists from underrepresented groups. Rationale Sabbatical research leaves from classroom teaching and administrative obligations can provide strong intellectual stimulation and lead to increased creativity and productivity in theoretical research. Basis for Awards Awards will be based on the applicant’s scientific accomplishments in the five-year period preceding the application and on the potential scientific impact of the work to be done during the leave period. Level and Duration of Funding A Simons Fellowship in Mathematics provides salary replacement for up to 50 percent (up to a maximum of $100,000) of the Fellow’s current academic-year salary, whether normally paid over 9 or 12 months, and up to $10,000 for expenses related to the leave. The Fellow’s home institution will receive an additional 20 percent overhead on allowable expenses. Please note that the foundation’s indirect cost policy allows up to 20 percent of direct cost expenditures. The Simons Fellowship will fund up to 50 percent of the 2022–2023 academic year, where, for example, the full leave year period could be January 1, 2022, through December 31, 2022; September 1, 2022, through August 31, 2023; or January 1, 2023, through December 31, 2023. Fellowship funding must be contiguous to the university-supported portion of the leave. Fellowship awards and sabbatical periods may begin no earlier than January 1, 2022, and no later than January 1, 2023. For sabbaticals beginning January 1, 2022, awards will be retroactively started and grant funds available no sooner than March 2022. Allowable Expenses Salary replacement funds are to be used only to replace or partly replace salary during academic terms in which the recipient would otherwise be teaching or engaging in academic administration or other departmental or university committee work. The funding may not be used for summer salary (if salary is paid over nine months) or to increase the academic-year salary beyond the university rate but may be paid out over the course of the full leave. Please follow the university’s policy on costs associated with sabbaticals not supported by the university. If applicable, fringe benefits are allowed within the salary-replacement-funds category, but the total amount requested cannot exceed the maximum allowed ($100,000). The additional funding is to be used to support expenses related to the leave in a manner consistent with the approved sabbatical plans. Allowable leave-related expenses include small equipment and supplies, travel (including the Fellow and the Fellow’s family members to and from the sabbatical location(s) and the Fellow’s travel to meetings and collaborators), housing (for the Fellow and the Fellow’s family), automobile rental, childcare and support for visitors (including meals). Salaries for students or research associates will not be supported, but funds may be used to help transport members of the Fellow’s research group to the sabbatical location (if different from the home institution) and provide housing. Leave-related expenses may be incurred at any time during the award period; they are not restricted to the terms in which salary is provided by the foundation. Eligibility Requirements Eligibility is restricted to sabbatical or equivalent leave-eligible faculty who wish to use the Simons Fellowship award for the purpose of extending at least a single-term sabbatical research leave to a full academic year. The fellowship program will not support the extension of a full year of sabbatical research leave to an additional term. In order to receive the fellowship, you must be approved by your institution for a full year of sabbatical research leave, consisting of two consecutive semesters or three consecutive quarters with at least 50 percent of the year fully paid by the home university and no more than 50 percent fully or partly supported by the fellowship. If funds from the foundation are insufficient to cover the salary needs for the period supported by the fellowship, other resources can be used for this purpose. The foundation will consider circumstances where, for example, the university covers 80 percent of a full year of leave and the fellowship covers the remaining 20 percent. Verification of sabbatical approval is not required at the time of application but must be provided to the foundation at least three months prior to the start of the applicant’s award. Please see the How to Apply section for further information. A Simons Fellow in Mathematics must have a teaching or administrative tenured position at the same U.S. or Canadian college or university within the mathematics department at the time of application, throughout the course of the sabbatical research leave and in the term following the leave. This must be the applicant’s primary position. Applied mathematics and statistics disciplines are eligible as long as the applicant resides within the mathematics department. Those doing primarily mathematical education research are not eligible. In addition, a Fellow must have an active, current research program. Fellows cannot simultaneously hold a Simons Investigator award. Previous fellowship awardees are allowed to apply for another fellowship as long as they follow their universities’ rules on sabbatical or equivalent leave eligibility. Unspent Funds Unspent funds at the end of the grant must be returned to the foundation. No-cost extension requests will typically not be considered. Number of Awards The foundation expects to award up to 50 mathematics fellowships for 2022. How to Apply Applicants must apply through proposalCENTRAL (https://proposalcentral.com/). The deadline to apply is September 28, 2021, 11:59:59 p.m. EDT. Please refer to the How to Apply tab for instructions. Our Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Many of the greatest ideas and discoveries come from a diverse mix of minds, backgrounds and experiences. The Simons Foundation is committed to grantmaking that inspires and supports greater diversity and inclusiveness by cultivating a funding environment that ensures representation of all identities and differences and equitable access to information and resources for all applicants and grantees. The Simons Foundation provides equal opportunities to all applicants for funding without regard to race, religion, color, age, sex, pregnancy, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic disposition, neurodiversity, disability, veteran status or any other protected category under federal, state and local law. The foundation also funds programs directed at supporting scientists from disadvantaged backgrounds or underrepresented groups, often working closely with professional societies and other funding agencies. Read More Important Dates Application Deadline September 28, 2021 Notification December 31, 2021 Earliest Award Start Date January 1, 2022 Contact Info Program or Administrative Questions: Elizabeth Roy Senior Manager for Programs and Administration mps@simonsfoundation.org 212-524-6966 Technical Questions: proposalCENTRAL pcsupport@altum.com 800-875-2562 Please see the general instructions for application submission. Please be sure to submit a proposal using the appropriate application (Mathematics and Physical Sciences — Simons Fellows in Mathematics). Proposal attachments should be single-spaced and in typeface no smaller than 10-point font. Margins must be at least half an inch in all directions. Please complete the application as follows: Title Page: Enter the title of the application. Answer sabbatical certification questions. Sabbatical approval is not required at the time of application but must be provided to the foundation at least three months prior to the start of the applicant’s award. Enable Other Users to Access this Proposal: This screen allows users to give other users access to the grant application, if necessary. Applicant: This information is preloaded from the applicant’s professional profile. Please indicate the applicant’s website, if applicable. Organization/Institution: This information is preloaded from the institutional profile. The Simons Foundation requires the provision of contact information for institutional officials for both pre- and post-award management. Please select names from the list of officials supplied with your proposalCENTRAL’s institution profile and click the Add button. If the contact you need is not on the list, enter the contact’s email address and click the Add button. Note that the officials added here are the only individuals who will automatically have access to this grant if the application is awarded. All other officials not listed in the application (including primary signing officials and primary financial officers) must request access to a grant after an application is awarded. Also, note that proposalCENTRAL’s institution profile is not tied to the Simons Foundation’s institutional profile. Officials added at the application stage are not automatically added to the Simons Foundation’s institutional profile. Please see the Simons Foundation’s grant policies for more information regarding institutional contacts. Abstract & Field Selection: Please provide a brief summary of where the applicant’s requested leave will take place and the main scientific goals during this time. Also, select the applicant’s field(s) as it applies to the applicant’s research in the last five years. Budget Summary & Justification: Enter start and end dates for the proposed full year leave period and all requested budget amounts in U.S. dollars. Please round up to the nearest dollar. In the justification section, provide the applicant’s known or expected academic-year salary for the full year of the leave period. If this is not yet finalized, please include the expected date of salary increase. Please also provide a detailed description of how the leave-related expense funding will be used. An insufficient budget justification may result in the proposal not being considered further. Proposal Attachments (attachments must be uploaded as unlocked PDFs; please confirm this before uploading): Statement of Recent Work (two-page limit, plus up to one page for references and figures, which can be embedded within the text): A statement explaining the candidate’s most significant scientific work over the previous five years. Statement of Sabbatical Plans (two-page limit, plus up to one page for references and figures, which can be embedded within the text): A statement summarizing the applicant’s plans for the entire leave period, the institution or institutions at which the leave is to be spent and the main scientific goals. Curriculum Vitae (two-page limit): Must include Ph.D. year, institution, advisor and positions held. Current and Pending Support: The list of current and pending support should include all financial resources — whether federal, nonfederal, commercial or institutional — available in direct support of the applicant’s research endeavors. Each support item listed should include the following: indication of active or pending, award number, source of support, title of project, dates of approved/proposed project, annual direct costs and notification date (if known and only for proposed projects). Publications List: A list of up to five publications from the past five years and up to five other publications. Students List: Current or recent (past five years) graduate students, postdoctoral fellows and Ph.D. students, as applicable, including their dissertation topics and likely date of completion. Letter from Other Institution (if applicable): If the leave is to be taken at another institution or institutions and will last longer than one month, confirmation must be submitted from the host institution(s) in the form of a letter signed by relevant department chairs or other appropriate university authorities stating that the visit is approved and briefly describing the facilities that will be made available to the applicant. If the letter of confirmation from the prospective host institution(s) cannot be obtained, then the application must include a backup plan describing what would be done if the visit(s) were not possible. The location of the sabbatical must be confirmed, in the form of the above-mentioned letter, to the foundation at least three months prior to the start of the applicant’s award. The location must be at either the originally proposed host institution or at the institution(s) specified in the backup plan, unless explicit permission is obtained from the foundation no later than three months before the start of the leave. Please use the Letter from Other Institution as the attachment type if including a backup plan. 501(c)(3) Equivalency Determination Letter from the IRS or Equivalency Certificate from NGOsource (if applicable): See Simons Foundation’s grant policies for requirements for grants to international institutions. The Simons Foundation requires that an institution is the equivalent of a U.S. public charity before making the award. If a Canadian institution has been issued a determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of the United States stating exemption under 501(c)(3) and, furthermore, either a 509(a)(1), (2) or (3) classification, a copy of this letter must be uploaded to the application. If a Canadian institution has previously been approved as equivalent of a U.S. public charity via NGOsource, a copy of the issued certificate must be uploaded to the application. If a Canadian institution does not have the letter or certificate at the application stage, do not upload anything for this attachment type. If a Canadian institution is selected for funding and does not have one of the aforementioned documents, the foundation will require that the institution complete an equivalency determination with NGOsource. The foundation will handle all administrative and financial aspects of this determination. IRS letters should not be uploaded for U.S. institutions. Signed Signature Page: Must be downloaded in the Signature Page(s) section of the application, signed by the designated signing official from the institution’s sponsored research office (or equivalent) and then re-uploaded as a proposal attachment. Please note that not all fields on the generated signature page will be populated and those fields should be left blank. Only the signed first page of the signature page PDF file needs to be uploaded for this requirement. An application should not be submitted without a signature on the signed signature page. PI Demographics: Please enter demographic data for the applicant. For required responses, the applicant can select Prefer Not to Disclose. Please click on Edit Professional Profile and navigate to Personal Data for Applications to update or change selections. The demographic data provided by applicants to the Simons Foundation will serve multiple purposes: to help us understand how our grantmaking reflects the communities we seek to serve and to equip our staff with critical data to help create equitable funding opportunities as one part of our overall commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion. Demographic data will not be shared with reviewers or otherwise used during the application review process. Aggregate data may be used publicly. Demographic data may be visible to a subset of Simons Foundation staff, such as programmatic and grantmaking staff. If you wish to review our data collection and use practices, please refer to the Simons Foundation’s privacy policy. Validate: Click the Validate button to check for any missing required information or files. All missing required information will be listed on the screen and must be corrected before the application can be submitted. Signature Page(s): Once all sections are completed, the signed signature page is to be downloaded in this section of the application, signed by the signing official from the institution’s sponsored research office (or equivalent) and then re-uploaded as a proposal attachment. Submit: This section will only appear if the deadline has not passed. Important Dates Application Deadline September 28, 2021 Notification December 31, 2021 Earliest Award Start Date January 1, 2022 Contact Info Program or Administrative Questions: Elizabeth Roy Senior Manager for Programs and Administration mps@simonsfoundation.org 212-524-6966 Technical Questions: proposalCENTRAL pcsupport@altum.com 800-875-2562 My university does not call leaves “sabbatical,” but rather “leave without pay” or “research leave.” Am I still eligible to apply? plus--large You are eligible to apply for the Simons Fellows program if you are eligible for a leave equivalent to a sabbatical, you will be granted a yearlong leave and at least 50 percent of the year’s salary is provided by your university. I have a tenure-track position. Am I eligible to apply? plus--large No, only those with tenured positions are eligible for the fellowship. Can I hold a Collaboration Grant for Mathematicians and a Simons Fellowship at the same time? plus--large Yes, the foundation allows holding both awards simultaneously. Can the Simons Fellowship support a sabbatical in which the recipient remains at his or her home institution? plus--large Yes, the fellowship can support this type of sabbatical. Can my sabbatical location be outside of the United States or Canada? plus--large Yes, this is allowable. Although I will not be teaching any classes during my sabbatical, I will have graduate students. Is this acceptable? plus--large Yes, this is acceptable. My primary appointment is in a department of computer science, although my research is primarily mathematics. Am I eligible for a Simons Fellowship in Mathematics? plus--large No, applicants to the Simons Fellows in Mathematics program must have a tenured, primary position in the mathematics department. Will the foundation accept applications from computer scientists? plus--large It is not our intent to support computer science with this program. Would you consider mathematical neuroscience an eligible field for the Simons Fellows in Mathematics program? plus--large Yes, mathematical neuroscience would be an eligible field for the fellowship. My primary research is mathematics education. Am I eligible to apply? plus--large No, you would not be eligible to apply. The program is intended to support theoretical mathematics research. Can the Simons Fellowship be used to match another external fellowship? plus--large No, the Simons Fellowship cannot be used to match another external fellowship. If my total academic salary for the foundation-supported term is greater than $100,000, am I allowed to make up the difference from other sources? plus--large Yes, as long as your total salary, including foundation support for the period of the leave, is less than or equal to your academic year salary. Is there a limit to the number of applicants per university? plus--large No, there is no limit. Are emeriti faculty eligible? plus--large Retired and emeriti faculty are not eligible. I have an adjunct appointment. Am I eligible? plus--large The intent of the program is to support scientists at academic institutions. A scientist whose primary appointment (as determined by source of salary and level of teaching commitments) is at a national laboratory or other research institute but who has an adjunct, courtesy or backup appointment at an academic institution is not eligible. An adjunct faculty member whose primary employer is an academic institution and who is eligible on the basis of his or her research is eligible for the Simons Fellowship. I am not a U.S. or Canadian citizen; am I eligible to be a Simons Fellow? plus--large U.S. or Canadian citizenship is not required, but a grantee’s primary appointment must be at a U.S. or Canadian institution in order to apply to or hold the grant. If I am not awarded a Simons Fellowship this year, may I reapply next year? plus--large There is no limit on the number of times one can apply, as long as one is eligible for a sabbatical. To whom is the grant awarded? plus--large The grant is awarded to the Simons Fellow’s home institution. How do I get reimbursed for eligible expenses? plus--large As the grant is made through the awardee’s institution, one should submit requests for reimbursement and purchases as prescribed by the awardee’s department. All 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2022 David F. Anderson, Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison Jason Behrstock, Ph.D. Lehman College, CUNY Jin-Yi Cai, Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison Xuwen Chen, Ph.D. University of Rochester Vaughn Climenhaga, Ph.D. University of Houston Henri Darmon, Ph.D. McGill University Giovanni Forni, Ph.D. University of Maryland, College Park Ailana Fraser, Ph.D. University of British Columbia Alexander Goncharov, Ph.D. Yale University Matthew Gursky, Ph.D. University of Notre Dame Piotr Hajłasz, Ph.D. University of Pittsburgh Jennifer Hom, Ph.D. Georgia Institute of Technology Adrian Ioana, Ph.D. University of California, San Diego Nataša Jonoska, Ph.D. University of South Florida Jeff Kahn, Ph.D. Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Jeremy Kahn, Ph.D. Brown University Chanwoo Kim, Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison Dmitry Kleinbock, Ph.D. Brandeis University Alexander Kleshchev, Ph.D. University of Oregon Sándor Kovács, Ph.D. University of Washington Michael Larsen, Ph.D. Indiana University H. Blaine Lawson, Ph.D. Stony Brook University Melvin Leok, Ph.D. University of California, San Diego Tao Li, Ph.D. Boston College Ayelet Lindenstrauss, Ph.D. Indiana University Robert Lipshitz, Ph.D. University of Oregon Robert J. McCann, Ph.D. University of Toronto Emily Riehl, Ph.D. Johns Hopkins University Mark Rudelson, Ph.D. University of Michigan Rayan Saab, Ph.D. University of California, San Diego Laurent Saloff-Coste, Ph.D. Cornell University Michael Stillman, Ph.D. Cornell University Vesna Stojanoska, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Jeffrey D. Streets, Ph.D. University of California, Irvine Pham Huu Tiep, Ph.D. Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Alex Townsend, Ph.D. Cornell University Mariusz Urbański, Ph.D. University of North Texas Alexander Zupan, Ph.D. University of Nebraska-Lincoln 2021 Mohammed Abouzaid, Ph.D. Columbia University Dan Abramovich, Ph.D. Brown University Louigi Addario-Berry, Ph.D. McGill University Radu Balan, Ph.D. University of Maryland, College Park Sandra Cerrai, Ph.D. University of Maryland, College Park Ivan Corwin, Ph.D. Columbia University Carina Curto, Ph.D. Pennsylvania State University Charles Doering, Ph.D. University of Michigan Hongjie Dong, Ph.D. Brown University Alexander Elgart, Ph.D. Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Solomon Friedberg, Ph.D. Boston College Loukas Grafakos, Ph.D. University of Missouri Alan Hammond, Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley Kate Juschenko, Ph.D. University of Texas at Austin Joel Kamnitzer, Ph.D. University of Toronto Konstantin Khanin, Ph.D. University of Toronto Chandrashekhar Khare, Ph.D. University of California, Los Angeles Mikhail Khovanov, Ph.D. Columbia University Bryna Kra, Ph.D. Northwestern University, Chicago Campus George Lusztig, Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology Russell Lyons, Ph.D. Indiana University Konstantin Mischaikow, Ph.D. Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Jennifer Morse, Ph.D. University of Virginia Grigoris Paouris, Ph.D. Texas A&M University Benoit Pausader, Ph.D. Brown University Kasra Rafi, Ph.D. University of Toronto Firas Rassoul-Agha, Ph.D. The University of Utah Yiannis Sakellaridis, Ph.D. Johns Hopkins University Laura Schaposnik, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Chicago Christian Schnell, Ph.D. Stony Brook University Zhongwei Shen, Ph.D. University of Kentucky Katherine Stange, Ph.D. University of Colorado Boulder Hung Tran, Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison Gunther Uhlmann, Ph.D. University of Washington Jan Wehr, Ph.D. University of Arizona Jonathan Wise, Ph.D. University of Colorado Boulder Helen Wong, Ph.D. Claremont McKenna College Jared Wunsch, Ph.D. Northwestern University, Chicago Campus Michael Yampolsky, Ph.D. University of Toronto Andrej Zlatoš, Ph.D. University of California, San Diego 2020 Benjamin Antieau, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Chicago Jozsef Balogh, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Jacob Bedrossian, Ph.D. University of Maryland, College Park Roman Bezrukavnikov, Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology Paul Bourgade, Ph.D. New York University Martin Bridgeman, Ph.D. Boston College Richard Canary, Ph.D. University of Michigan Jonathan Chaika, Ph.D. The University of Utah Xiaohui Chen, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Artem Chernikov, Ph.D. University of California, Los Angeles David Damanik, Ph.D. William Marsh Rice University Mark Andrea de Cataldo, Ph.D. Stony Brook University Adrian Diaconu, Ph.D. University of Minnesota – Twin Cities Nathan Dunfield, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign David Fisher, Ph.D. Indiana University Read More Mohammad Ghomi, Ph.D. Georgia Institute of Technology Michael Harris, Ph.D. Columbia University Svetlana Jitomirskaya, Ph.D. University of California, Irvine Tasho Kaletha, Ph.D. University of Michigan Boris Khesin, Ph.D. University of Toronto Marcus Khuri, Ph.D. Stony Brook University Alexander Kiselev, Ph.D. Duke University Leonid Koralov, Ph.D. University of Maryland, College Park Michael Lacey, Ph.D. Georgia Institute of Technology Yanyan Li, Ph.D. Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Victor Lie, Ph.D. Purdue University Mauro Maggioni, Ph.D. Johns Hopkins University Read More Elizabeth Meckes, Ph.D. Case Western Reserve University Hee Oh, Ph.D. Yale University Read More Richard Schwartz, Ph.D. Brown University Read More Karl Schwede, Ph.D. The University of Utah Konstantinos Spiliopoulos, Ph.D. Boston University Bianca Viray, Ph.D. University of Washington Z. Jane Wang, Ph.D. Cornell University Rachel Ward, Ph.D. University of Texas at Austin Juncheng Wei, Ph.D. University of British Columbia Elisabeth Werner, Ph.D. Case Western Reserve University Ting Zhou, Ph.D. Northeastern University Xinwen Zhu, Ph.D. California Institute of Technology Aleksey Zinger, Ph.D. Stony Brook University 2019 Federico Ardila, Ph.D. San Francisco State University Nir Avni, Ph.D. Northwestern University Yuri Berest, Ph.D. Cornell University Christopher Bishop, Ph.D. Stony Brook University Sergey Bobkov, Ph.D. University of Minnesota – Twin Cities Vyjayanthi Chari, Ph.D. University of California, Riverside Ivan Cherednik, Ph.D. University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Gheorghe Craciun, Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison Philippe Di Francesco, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign William Duke, Ph.D. University of California, Los Angeles Sergey Fomin, Ph.D. University of Michigan Joshua Greene, Ph.D. Boston College Changfeng Gui, Ph.D. University of Texas at San Antonio Robert Guralnick, Ph.D. University of Southern California Juhi Jang, Ph.D. University of Southern California Victor Kac, Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology Matthew Kahle, Ph.D. Ohio State University Nets Katz, Ph.D. California Institute of Technology Rinat Kedem, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Autumn Kent, Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison Inwon Christina Kim, Ph.D. University of California, Los Angeles Sergiu Klainerman, Ph.D. Princeton University Read More Slava Krushkal, Ph.D. University of Virginia Kai-Wen Lan, Ph.D. University of Minnesota – Twin Cities Xiaochun Li, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Irina Mitrea, Ph.D. Temple University Toan Nguyen, Ph.D. Pennsylvania State University Denis Osin, Ph.D. Vanderbilt University Dmitry Panchenko, Ph.D. University of Toronto Irena Peeva, Ph.D. Cornell University Malabika Pramanik, Ph.D. University of British Columbia Eric Rowell, Ph.D. Texas A&M University Andreas Seeger, Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison Evgueni Tevelev, Ph.D. University of Massachusetts Amherst Tatiana Toro, Ph.D. University of Washington Jared Weinstein, Ph.D. Boston University Michael Wolf, Ph.D. William Marsh Rice University Paul Yang, Ph.D. Princeton University Guoliang Yu, Ph.D. Texas A&M University 2018 Marcelo Aguiar, Ph.D. Cornell University Anar Akhmedov, Ph.D. University of Minnesota Dmytro Arinkin, Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison Aaron Bertram, Ph.D. The University of Utah Lydia Bieri, Ph.D. University of Michigan Alexander Braverman, Ph.D. University of Toronto Ching-Li Chai, Ph.D. University of Pennsylvania Jingyi Chen, Ph.D. University of British Columbia Yingda Cheng, Ph.D. Michigan State University Jordan Ellenberg, Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison Rui Loja Fernandes, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Amanda Folsom, Ph.D. Amherst College Michael Goldstein, Ph.D. University of Toronto Alexander Goncharov, Ph.D. Yale University Anton Gorodetski, Ph.D. University of California, Irvine Antonella Grassi, Ph.D. University of Pennsylvania Lan-Hsuan Huang, Ph.D. University of Connecticut David Jerison, Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology Jeffrey Lagarias, Ph.D. University of Michigan Claude LeBrun, Ph.D. Stony Brook University Lionel Levine, Ph.D. Cornell University Marta Lewicka, Ph.D. University of Pittsburgh Max Lieblich, Ph.D. University of Washington Jacob Lurie, Ph.D. Harvard University Govind Menon, Ph.D. Brown University Antonio Montalban, Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley Mircea Mustata, Ph.D. University of Michigan Alexei Oblomkov, Ph.D. University of Massachusetts Amherst Sam Payne, Ph.D. Yale University Olga Plamenevskaya, Ph.D. Stony Brook University Kavita Ramanan, Ph.D. Brown University Sebastien Roch, Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison Federico Rodríguez Hertz, Ph.D. Pennsylvania State University Sunder Sethuraman, Ph.D. University of Arizona Roman Shvydkoy, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Chicago Yannick Sire, Ph.D. Johns Hopkins University Christopher Sogge, Ph.D. Johns Hopkins University Frank Thorne, Ph.D. University of South Carolina Shankar Venkataramani, Ph.D. University of Arizona Alexander Vladimirsky, Ph.D. Cornell University 2017 Matthew Baker, Ph.D. Georgia Institute of Technology David Ben-Zvi, Ph.D. University of Texas at Austin Mladen Bestvina, Ph.D. The University of Utah Lewis Bowen, Ph.D. University of Texas at Austin Tobias Colding, Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology Panagiota Daskalopoulos, Ph.D. Columbia University Aleksandar Donev, Ph.D. New York University Zeev Dvir, Ph.D. Princeton University Ezra Getzler, Ph.D. Northwestern University Anna Gilbert, Ph.D. University of Michigan Florian Herzig, Ph.D. University of Toronto John Imbrie, Ph.D. University of Virginia Jeff Kahn, Ph.D. Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Jeremy Kahn, Ph.D. Brown University Michael Kapovich, Ph.D. University of California, Davis Boris Khesin, Ph.D. University of Toronto Kay Kirkpatrick, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Nitu Kitchloo, Ph.D. Johns Hopkins University Alex Kontorovich, Ph.D. Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Read More Svitlana Mayboroda, Ph.D. University of Minnesota Chikako Mese, Ph.D. Johns Hopkins University Tomasz Mrowka, Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology Camil Muscalu, Ph.D. Cornell University Irina Nenciu, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Chicago Thomas Nevins, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Hee Oh, Ph.D. Yale University Read More Julia Pevtsova, Ph.D. University of Washington Andrei Rapinchuk, Ph.D. University of Virginia Daniel Ruberman, Ph.D. Brandeis University Mark Rudelson, Ph.D. University of Michigan Thomas Scanlon, Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley Natasa Sesum, Ph.D. Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Gigliola Staffilani, Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology Read More Nicolas Templier, Ph.D. Cornell University Benedek Valkó, Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison András Vasy, Ph.D. Stanford University Alexander Volberg, Ph.D. Michigan State University Sijue Wu, Ph.D. University of Michigan Wei Zhang, Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology Maciej Zworski, Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley 2016 Jinho Baik, Ph.D. University of Michigan Fedor Bogomolov, Ph.D. New York University Lev Borisov, Ph.D. Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Alexei Borodin, Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology Read More Fioralba Cakoni, Ph.D. Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Xiuxiong Chen, Ph.D. Stony Brook University Maria Gordina, Ph.D. University of Connecticut J. Elisenda Grigsby, Ph.D. Boston College Thomas Haines, Ph.D. University of Maryland, College Park Julia Hartmann, Ph.D. University of Pennsylvania Read More Christopher Hoffman, Ph.D. University of Washington Vera Mikyoung Hur, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Michael Hutchings, Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley Adrian Iovita, Ph.D. Concordia University Gautam Iyer, Ph.D. Carnegie Mellon University Vadim Kaloshin, Ph.D. University of Maryland, College Park Vitali Kapovitch, Ph.D. University of Toronto Kiumars Kaveh, Ph.D. University of Pittsburgh Sean Keel, Ph.D. University of Texas at Austin Bryna Kra, Ph.D. Northwestern University Radu Laza, Ph.D. Stony Brook University Liping Liu, Ph.D. Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Dan Margalit, Ph.D. Georgia Institute of Technology Andrew Neitzke, Ph.D. University of Texas at Austin Adam Oberman, Ph.D. McGill University Robert Pego, Ph.D. Carnegie Mellon University Robin Pemantle, Ph.D. University of Pennsylvania Robert Pollack, Ph.D. Boston University Sorin Popa, Ph.D. University of California, Los Angeles Dinakar Ramakrishnan, Ph.D. California Institute of Technology Richard Schwartz, Ph.D. Brown University Read More Avraham Soffer, Ph.D. Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Bernd Sturmfels, Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley Brian White, Ph.D. Stanford University Dapeng Zhan, Ph.D. Michigan State University Shou-Wu Zhang, Ph.D. Princeton University Michael Zieve, Ph.D. University of Michigan 2015 Anthony Bloch, Ph.D. University of Michigan Liliana Borcea, Ph.D. University of Michigan Nigel Boston, Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison Ted Chinburg, Ph.D. University of Pennsylvania Octav Cornea, Ph.D. University of Montreal Henri Darmon, Ph.D. McGill University Laura DeMarco, Ph.D. Northwestern University Tyrone Duncan, Ph.D. University of Kansas John Etnyre, Ph.D. Georgia Institute of Technology Alan Frieze, Ph.D. Carnegie Mellon University Dennis Gaitsgory, Ph.D. Harvard University Allan Greenleaf, Ph.D. University of Rochester Daniel Groves, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Chicago Samuel Grushevsky, Ph.D. Stony Brook University Marco Gualtieri, Ph.D. University of Toronto Yan Guo, Ph.D. Brown University Eleny Ionel, Ph.D. Stanford University Krešimir Josić, Ph.D. University of Houston Rowan Killip, Ph.D. University of California, Los Angeles Sergiu Klainerman, Ph.D. Princeton University Read More Nicolai Krylov, Ph.D. University of Minnesota Thomas Lam, Ph.D. University of Michigan Aaron Lauda, Ph.D. University of Southern California Tao Li, Ph.D. Boston College Hans Lindblad, Ph.D. Johns Hopkins University Guozhen Lu, Ph.D. Wayne State University Mitchell Luskin, Ph.D. University of Minnesota – Twin Cities Robert J. McCann, Ph.D. University of Toronto Curtis McMullen, Ph.D. Harvard University Lenhard Ng, Ph.D. Duke University Martin Olsson, Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley Bjorn Poonen, Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology Florian Pop, Ph.D. University of Pennsylvania Mihnea Popa, Ph.D. Northwestern University Cristian Popescu, Ph.D. University of California, San Diego Nicolai Reshetikhin, Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley Timo Seppäläinen, Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison Alexander Varchenko, Ph.D. University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill W. Hugh Woodin, Ph.D. Harvard University Hong-Kun Zhang, Ph.D. University of Massachusetts Amherst 2014 Denis Auroux, Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley Jason Behrstock, Ph.D. Lehman College, CUNY Roman Bezrukavnikov, Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology Francis Bonahon, Ph.D. University of Southern California Samuel R. Buss, Ph.D. University of California, San Diego Daniela Calvetti, Ph.D. Case Western Reserve University Guang Cheng, Ph.D. Purdue University Tim Cochran, Ph.D. William Marsh Rice University Donatella Danielli, Ph.D. Purdue University Mark Andrea de Cataldo, Ph.D. Stony Brook University Giovanni Forni, Ph.D. University of Maryland, College Park Dan Freed, Ph.D. University of Texas at Austin Alexander Furman, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Chicago William Goldman, Ph.D. University of Maryland, College Park Shelly Harvey, Ph.D. William Marsh Rice University Lizhen Ji, Ph.D. University of Michigan Svetlana Jitomirskaya, Ph.D. University of California, Irvine Joel Kamnitzer, Ph.D. University of Toronto Martin Kassabov, Ph.D. Cornell University Ludmil Katzarkov, Ph.D. University of Miami Dmitry Kleinbock, Ph.D. Brandeis University Bruce Kleiner, Ph.D. New York University Read More Elena Kosygina, Ph.D. Baruch College/CUNY Sándor Kovács, Ph.D. University of Washington Slava Krushkal, Ph.D. University of Virginia George Lusztig, Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology Ivan Mirkovic, Ph.D. University of Massachusetts Amherst Kartik Prasanna, Ph.D. University of Michigan Firas Rassoul-Agha, Ph.D. The University of Utah Romyar Sharifi, Ph.D. University of Arizona Eric Shea-Brown, Ph.D. University of Washington Scott Sheffield, Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology Read More Robert Sims, Ph.D. University of Arizona Pham Huu Tiep, Ph.D. University of Arizona Kari Vilonen, Ph.D. Northwestern University Daqing Wan, Ph.D. University of California, Irvine Mu-Tao Wang, Ph.D. Columbia University Lauren Williams, Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley Christopher Woodward, Ph.D. Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Michael Yampolsky, Ph.D. University of Toronto 2013 Jozsef Balogh, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Dror Bar-Natan, Ph.D. University of Toronto Alexander Braverman, Ph.D. Brown University Martin Bridgeman, Ph.D. Boston College Xiaodong Cao, Ph.D. Cornell University Jeff Cheeger, Ph.D. New York University Read More Ivan Cherednik, Ph.D. University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill J. Theodore Cox, Ph.D. Syracuse University Rodica Curtu, Ph.D. University of Iowa Vin de Silva, Ph.D. Pomona College Ron Donagi, Ph.D. University of Pennsylvania Hao Fang, Ph.D. University of Iowa Mikhail Feldman, Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison Yuval Flicker, Ph.D. Ohio State University Gregory Galloway, Ph.D. University of Miami Stavros Garoufalidis, Ph.D. Georgia Institute of Technology Tara Holm, Ph.D. Cornell University Christian Houdre, Ph.D. Georgia Institute of Technology Nicholas Katz, Ph.D. Princeton University Read More Ralph Kaufmann, Ph.D. Purdue University Konstantin Khanin, Ph.D. University of Toronto Leonid Koralov, Ph.D. University of Maryland, College Park Michael Larsen, Ph.D. Indiana University Zhiwu Lin, Ph.D. Georgia Institute of Technology John Lott, Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley Elizabeth Meckes, Ph.D. Case Western Reserve University Mark Meckes, Ph.D. Case Western Reserve University Peter Miller, Ph.D. University of Michigan M. Ram Murty, Ph.D. Queen’s University at Kingston Andrea Nahmod, Ph.D. University of Massachusetts Amherst Barry Simon, Ph.D. California Institute of Technology Hart Smith, Ph.D. University of Washington Jason Starr, Ph.D. Stony Brook University Catherine Sulem, Ph.D. University of Toronto Peter Thomas, Ph.D. Case Western Reserve University Konstantina Trivisa, Ph.D. University of Maryland, College Park Yen-Hsi Tsai, Ph.D. University of Texas at Austin Gunther Uhlmann, Ph.D. University of Washington Ravi Vakil, Ph.D. Stanford University Michelle Wachs, Ph.D. University of Miami 2012 Ian Agol, Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley Read More Michael Aizenman, Ph.D. Princeton University Sergey Bobkov, Ph.D. University of Minnesota – Twin Cities Jared Bronski, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Gautam Chinta, Ph.D. City College of New York Kevin Costello, Ph.D. Northwestern University David Damanik, Ph.D. William Marsh Rice University James Damon, Ph.D. University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Tommaso de Fernex, Ph.D. The University of Utah Aise de Jong, Ph.D. Columbia University Alan Demlow, Ph.D. University of Kentucky Nathan Dunfield, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign David Fisher, Ph.D. Indiana University Read More Jason Fulman, Ph.D. University of Southern California Ira Gessel, Ph.D. Brandeis University Paul Gunnells, Ph.D. University of Massachusetts Amherst Robert Guralnick, Ph.D. University of Southern California Weimin Han, Ph.D. University of Iowa Ko Honda, Ph.D. University of Southern California Srikanth Iyengar, Ph.D. University of Nebraska-Lincoln Trachette Jackson, Ph.D. University of Michigan Victor Kac, Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology János Kollár, Ph.D. Princeton University Read More Igor Krichever, Ph.D. Columbia University Michael Lacey, Ph.D. Georgia Institute of Technology Elliott Lieb, Ph.D. Princeton University Bradley Lucier, Ph.D. Purdue University Zhengyu Mao, Ph.D. Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Gloria Mari-Beffa, Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison Robert Meyerhoff, Ph.D. Boston College Jennifer Morse, Ph.D. Drexel University Assaf Naor, Ph.D. New York University Read More Itay Neeman, Ph.D. University of California, Los Angeles Irena Peeva, Ph.D. Cornell University Sorin Popa, Ph.D. University of California, Los Angeles Brian Rider, Ph.D. University of Colorado Boulder Dan Romik, Ph.D. University of California, Davis Christian Rosendal, Ph.D. University of Illinois at Chicago Anne Schilling, Ph.D. University of California, Davis Richard Schwartz, Ph.D. Brown University Read More Theodore Slaman, Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley Christopher Sogge, Ph.D. Johns Hopkins University Joel Spruck, Ph.D. Johns Hopkins University Daniel Tataru, Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley Read More Tatiana Toro, Ph.D. University of Washington Bernd Ulrich, Ph.D. Purdue University Jeff Viaclovsky, Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison Alexander Voronov, Ph.D. University of Minnesota – Twin Cities Changyou Wang, Ph.D. University of Kentucky Eric Zaslow, Ph.D. Northwestern University Filters returned no results. Please try again. Other Funding Opportunities View All Funding Opportunities Program Name Important Dates Description Simons Collaborations in Mathematics and the Physical Sciences Closed Reopens Summer 2022 The aim of the Simons Collaborations in MPS program is to stimulate progress on fundamental scientific questions of major importance in mathematics, theoretical physics and theoretical computer science. Targeted Grants to Institutes Closed Reopens Summer 2022 The program is intended to support established institutes or centers in the mathematics and physical sciences through funding to help strengthen contacts within the international scientific community. NSF-Simons Research Collaborations on the Mathematical and Scientific Foundations of Deep Learning    The NSF-Simons Research Collaborations on the MoDL initiative awarded two collaborations designed to support research activities focused on a particular set of topics involving some of the most challenging questions in the general area of mathematical and scientific foundations of deep learning. Simons Symposia Closed Each Simons Symposia series brings together mathematicians, theoretical physicists and/or theoretical computer scientists to interact and collaborate in a series of up to three symposia, held every second year and focusing on one topic or a tightly connected group of topics. Simons Fellows in Theoretical Physics Closed Reopens Summer 2022 See 2022 Awardees The Simons Fellows program in Theoretical Physics provides funds to faculty for up to a semester-long research leave from classroom teaching and administrative obligations. Simons Fellows in Mathematics Online Application The Simons Foundation uses an electronic grants submission process. All interested grant applicants must submit their applications online through proposalCENTRAL. Once you are logged into proposalCENTRAL: Navigate to the grant opportunities tab. Select Simons Foundation from the ’Filter by Grant Maker’ drop-down list. You will then see the list of current Simons Foundation grant opportunities. proposal-central Go to proposalCENTRAL Subscribe to MPS announcements and other foundation updates Continue Simons Foundation About Us Funding News Events Annual Report Contact Us Career Opportunities Follow Us © Simons Foundation Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Image Credits Program Areas Program Areas Mathematics & Physical Sciences Mathematics & Physical Sciences Mathematics & Physical Sciences Funding Request for Applications Programs Policies and Procedures News Events Events Conferences Symposia Lectures About About About Us Scientific Advisory Board Life Sciences Life Sciences Life Sciences Research Areas Origins of Life Microbial Oceanography Microbial Ecology & Evolution Funding Funding Funding Opportunities Life Sciences Awards Project Awards Funding Policies News About Us Autism Research (SFARI) Simons Collaborations Simons Collaborations Simons Collaborations Life Sciences Collaborations Life Sciences Collaborations Life Sciences Collaborations Research Areas Origins of Life Microbial Oceanography Microbial Ecology & Evolution Funding Funding Funding Opportunities Life Sciences Awards Project Awards Funding Policies News About Us Aging Brain Aging Brain Aging Brain Funding Funding Research Awards Transition to Independence Award Projects Projects Infographic News Publications Events About About Mission Statement Executive Committee Investigators Our Team SCPAB Network Global Brain Global Brain Global Brain Funding Projects News News Cosyne 2022 Cosyne 2020 Cosyne 2019 Cosyne 2018 Publications Events People People Executive Committee Our Team Investigators Fellows About About Scientific Mission SCGB Network SCGB-Sponsored Courses Data Sharing Initiatives Other Resources MPS Collaborations MPS Collaborations MPS Collaborations Funding Request for Applications Programs Policies and Procedures News Events Events Conferences Symposia Lectures About About About Us Scientific Advisory Board Flatiron Institute Flatiron Institute Flatiron Institute Our Centers Our Centers Center for Computational Astrophysics Center for Computational Astrophysics Center for Computational Astrophysics Groups Astronomical Data Compact Objects Cosmology X Data Science Dynamics Galaxy Formation Gravitational Wave Astronomy Planet Formation Projects News News Publications Events Events CCA Colloquium Event Videos Software Jobs About About Code of Conduct Media Relations Contact People People Staff Flatiron Research Fellows Long-Term Visiting Scientists Guest Researchers Center for Computational Biology Center for Computational Biology Center for Computational Biology Groups Biophysical Modeling Developmental Dynamics Genomics Structural and Molecular Biophysics Collaboration Systems Biology Publications Software News Jobs About About Events Code of Conduct Media Relations Contact People People Staff Flatiron Research Fellows Long-Term Visiting Scientists Center for Computational Mathematics Center for Computational Mathematics Center for Computational Mathematics Research Image and Signal Processing Numerical Analysis Machine Learning and Data Analysis Publications News Software People People Staff Flatiron Research Fellows Long-Term Visiting Scientists Jobs About About Events Code of Conduct Media Relations Contact Center for Computational Neuroscience Center for Computational Neuroscience Center for Computational Neuroscience Research Computational Vision Neural Circuits and Algorithms NeuroAI and Geometric Data Analysis Statistical Analysis of Neural Data People Publications Software News Jobs About About Events Code of Conduct Media Relations Center for Computational Quantum Physics Center for Computational Quantum Physics Center for Computational Quantum Physics Research Dynamics and Control Quantum Materials Software Libraries Theory and Methods Publications News Events Events Quantum Cafe Event Videos Software About About Jobs Code of Conduct Media Relations Contact People People Research Scientists Flatiron Research Fellows Long-term Visiting Scientists Predoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Alumni Scientific Computing Core Scientific Computing Core Scientific Computing Core News Events Jobs People About About Contact Publications News Events Jobs About About Mission People Media Relations Code of Conduct Contact COVID-19 Outreach & Education Simons Society of Fellows Simons Society of Fellows Fellows News Events Nominations Contact Funding Funding Opportunities Independence Awards Policies and Procedures Award Instructions News Announcements Articles Videos What We’re Reading Events Simons Foundation Presidential Lectures Simons Foundation Presents About About Us Media Relations Leadership Annual Report Contact Us COVID-19 © Simons Foundation Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Image Credits We use cookies to analyze web traffic and to improve your browsing experience; full details are in our privacy policy. Please agree to accept cookies from our site.AGREE