COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Kansas Family Business Forum Section Menu Center for Entrepreneurship Kansas Family Business Forum Membership Fambition Family Business Assessment Interest Form Member Login For more information about Kansas Family Business Forum, fill out the interest form by clicking the button below! Interest Form Kansas Family Business Forum Established 1995 The Kansas Family Business Forum is designed to provide unique learning experiences to those involved with family businesses. Events bring owners, families, and managers together to address issues such as ownership and management succession, strategic planning, estate planning, risk management, family dynamics, and family governance just to name a few. Mission Statement: The Kansas Family Business Forum provides support and expertise for every growth cycle of a closely held business. Our innovative formats of education and peer-to-peer learning motivate and create a pathway to success for family, managers, and owners of family businesses. Membership Fambition Family Business Assessment 2022 - 2023 Programming To Be Announced Over the Summer 2021-2022 Membership Programming Executive Breakfast: Tuesday, September 21— Can You Run Your Business Without People? Tuesday, October 19— A Post-Pandemic Look at Emerging Labor and Employment Law Trends Tuesday, November 16— Disruption & the Family Enterprise in the Age of Agility Tuesday, December 7— Professionalizing a Family Business Wednesday, January 12— Protect your Family Wealth with Squeeze, Freeze and Burn Strategies Wednesday, February 9— Boards: Advisory, Fiduciary, Peer Groups... Wednesday, March 9— Cybersecurity Risk Management: Protect Your Business from Cybercriminals Tuesday, April 12— Making Things Right at Work Business Biography: Tuesday, March 29 Personal Advisory Groups: Wednesday, September 29 — Founder/CEO Tuesday, October 5 — Next Gen Tuesday, November 9 — Next Gen Thursday, November 10 — Founder/CEO Tuesday, January 18 — Next Gen Thursday, January 20 — Founder/CEO Tuesday, March 22 — Next Gen Thursday, March 24 — Founder/CEO For over 25 years, the Kansas Family Business Forum has been a great organization for meeting other family businesses. There is a sense of belonging to a greater community, of sharing similar values and beliefs and of continued learning from professionals for the well-being of our family business.Patty Koehler, J.R. Custom Metal "No matter what Family Business issue that we are confronting at Star, we know that others have already addressed similar situations in their own businesses. Thanks to KFBF, we have the forum to interact and learn from quality Grantors and other experienced business owners who already dealt with the similar issues." - Chris Goebel, Star Lumber "KFBF is an important resource for our family business by providing education, resources and networking on risk management, human resource management, strategic planning and succession. These issues are imperative in any business at any time, but especially now. We must find the resolve to endure and the strength to thrive!" - Walter Berry, Berry Companies Inc. More Information For more information about Kansas Family Business Forum, fill out the interest form by clicking the button below! Interest Form Contact Nancy Kersenbrock, KFBF Director Email: nancy.kersenbrock@wichita.edu Phone: 316-978-6269 Twitter LinkedIn Interest Form Membership Fambition Family Business Assessment Sponsors: 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©