Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Arts and Humanities Date June 9, 2021 2021-06-09 Media Contact Jill Kimball [email protected] 401-863-5450 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Brown MFA students win prestigious Kennedy Center playwriting awards Graduate student playwrights Nkenna Akunna, Seayoung Yim and Christopher Lindsay were recognized with national awards for writing creative scripts that tackle difficult subjects such as racism, misogyny and “fatphobia.” Left to right: Seayoung Yim (Photo by Laura Dux), Christopher Lindsay and Nkenna Akunna PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Three students enrolled in Brown master of fine arts programs captured prestigious national awards for outstanding playwriting and acting at the 2021 Kennedy Center American College Theater Festival, held virtually throughout the spring. Each year, the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C., invites 18,000 students from colleges and universities across the U.S. to participate in workshops and stage productions, recognizing some of the finest festival talent with awards. Through the center’s National Playwriting Program, students who write for the stage have a chance to win all-expenses-paid professional development opportunities, monetary support or active memberships in the Dramatists Guild of America. Nkenna Akunna, a Brown MFA student in playwriting, received two awards for “Good Fit,” a dark, absurdist play that comments on the limits and liberties assigned to people of different identities. She won a $1,000 first-place Rosa Parks Playwriting Award, which recognizes outstanding one-act plays about social justice or civil rights written by students and faculty, and a $500 second-place Lorraine Hansberry Playwriting Award, which honors outstanding plays that speak to the African American experience. Seayoung Yim, also Brown MFA student in playwriting, won a $500 second-place Paul Stephen Lim Playwriting Award, which is given to exceptional plays written by students of Asian heritage. The award was for her play “Jar of Fat,” which explores Korean American identity and “fatphobia” in what she calls a “fantastical fairytale world.” https://www.youtube.com/embed/KS5c0gzHNZQ 'Fantastical fairytale world' Master's of fine arts student Seayoung Yim describes the plot of, and inspiration behind, her play "Jar of Fat." “Both Nkenna and Seayoung write with a playful, even joyful, sense of experimentation, even as they tackle serious issues like racism and misogyny head-on,” said Julia Jarcho, head of playwriting and an associate professor of theatre arts and performance studies at Brown. “They are both writers who push against norms of what theater supposedly can and can’t do, say and show. They are both determined to make magic happen onstage.” Christopher Lindsay, a student in the joint Brown/Trinity Repertory Company MFA program in acting, received special recognition for his play “Songs of a Caged Bird,” which earned him Rosa Parks and Lorraine Hansberry Playwriting Awards. Lindsay’s play, which was produced virtually by Brown’s Rites and Reason Theatre, dramatizes the prison experience of Lee Berry, a Vietnam War veteran and Black Panther who was arrested on charges of plotting mass murder and acquitted two years later. Karen Allen Baxter, the longtime senior managing director of Rites and Reason Theatre who retired in December 2020, said the experience of making the production happen virtually was “like flying an airplane while we were building it.” https://www.youtube.com/embed/1sJMgyuWup0 'Songs of a Caged Bird' Producing Christopher Lindsay's virtual play was "like flying an airplane while we were building it," said Karen Allen Baxter. This year isn’t the first time Brown students have been recognized by the Kennedy Center. Most recently, Lucas Baisch, a Class of 2020 graduate, won a Latinx Playwriting Award last year for “Dry Swallow,” which follows the struggles and successes of seven people caught up in illegal drug trade. And Julia Izumi, a 2019 graduate, won awards in two categories for “miku and the gods,” a coming-of-age play tackling the topics of grief and personal responsibility. “These awards are oriented toward writers who want to use the artistic possibilities of theater to reimagine social problems,” Jarcho said. “I think that this year, all three students have done that with their plays.” Tags Awards and Fellowships Brown Arts Institute Related news: Arts and Humanities John Hay Library acquires Puerto Rican playwright’s personal papers May 11, 2022 A new collection of drafts, notes and correspondence from playwright José Rivera gives scholars a window into one artist’s process and provides new perspective on the lived experiences of Latin Americans. Read Article Open details for John Hay Library acquires Puerto Rican playwright’s personal papers Arts and Humanities Kent Kleinman appointed faculty director of the Brown Arts Institute April 27, 2022 Kleinman, who currently serves as provost at Rhode Island School of Design, will lead the development and implementation of academic programs within Brown University’s Arts Institute. Read Article Open details for Kent Kleinman appointed faculty director of the Brown Arts Institute Arts and Humanities Brown music historian weighs in on racism, Russia and Wagner’s legacy April 18, 2022 Michael Steinberg, a professor of music and history at Brown, has curated a new exhibition on Richard Wagner, one of the 19th century’s most influential and problematic cultural figures, in Berlin. Read Article Open details for Brown music historian weighs in on racism, Russia and Wagner’s legacy Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown MFA students win prestigious Kennedy Center playwriting awards Open details for Brown MFA students win prestigious Kennedy Center playwriting awards Bookmark this Page