Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Teach For All co-founder and CEO Wendy Kopp named Baccalaureate speaker Denise Valenti, Office of Communications Nov. 23, 2021, 11 a.m. Princeton alumna Wendy Kopp, founder of Teach For America and co-founder and CEO of Teach For All, has been selected as the speaker for the University’s 2022 Baccalaureate ceremony. Wendy Kopp Photo by Xanthe Elbrick Baccalaureate, an end-of-year interfaith service that is one of Princeton’s oldest traditions, is scheduled for 2 p.m. Sunday, May 22. The speaker was selected by the Committee on Honorary Degrees and approved by the Board of Trustees. The letter of invitation to Kopp noted, “Your commitment to educational equity and social entrepreneurship makes you an outstanding role model for our students, particularly given that Teach For America grew from your senior thesis ‘A Plan and Argument for the Creation of a National Teacher Corps.’ From Teach For America to Teach For All, you have truly embodied what it means to be ‘in the nation’s service and the service of humanity.’” "It is a tremendous honor that Wendy Kopp '89 will serve as the Baccalaureate speaker for the Great Class of 2022," said senior class President Santiago Guiran. "Through her high-impact contributions to children’s education, Kopp has set her sights on attempting to remedy the negative effects caused by structural inequality. Her endeavor to equalize education for those in need leaves me with no doubt that she will successfully serve as an emblem for social progress to the graduating seniors, and will be able to demonstrate how entrepreneurship and social impact go hand in hand." Kopp earned her A.B. in the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs in 1989. Shortly after her graduation, she founded Teach For America — a national corps of recent college graduates who commit two years to teach in urban and rural public schools, and become lifelong leaders for ensuring all children thrive — placing 500 teachers in schools with large populations of disadvantaged students within the first year. In 2007, Kopp responded to the interest from social entrepreneurs around the world who wanted to adapt the Teach For America approach for their local contexts by co-founding Teach For All, a global network that now comprises 61 independent partner organizations that similarly develop leadership for ensuring all children have the opportunity to fulfill their potential. “It’s given us a huge sense of optimism, that we can really accelerate the pace of change if we can generate this kind of growing force of locally rooted leaders in countries all over the world who are also globally informed, exposed to what’s working and what’s possible in other places,” Kopp told Princeton’s She Roars podcast in 2019. “And that’s really what we’re working to develop through Teach For All.” Teach For All network partners collectively have more than 15,000 teachers currently in the midst of their initial two-year teaching commitments, reaching more than 1 million students, with more than 89,000 alumni worldwide, 75% of whom continue to work to expand opportunities for children, in education and beyond. Kopp is the author of “A Chance to Make History: What Works and What Doesn’t in Providing an Excellent Education for All” (2011) and “One Day, All Children: The Unlikely Triumph of Teach For America and What I Learned Along the Way” (2000). She holds honorary doctorates from 15 universities, including Princeton, and she is the recipient of numerous awards including the McGraw Prize in Education (2006), the Presidential Citizens Medal (2008), the Skoll Award for Social Entrepreneurship (2008) and the Schwab Foundation’s Outstanding Social Entrepreneur Award (2003). Kopp is the youngest person and the first woman to receive Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson Award (1993), which is conferred annually upon an undergraduate alumnus or alumna whose achievements embody the call to duty in Wilson's speech, "Princeton in the Nation's Service." In 1994, TIME magazine recognized Kopp as one of the 40 most promising leaders under 40, and in 2008 honored her again as one of the World’s 100 Most Influential People. In 2006, U.S. News & World Report named Kopp one of America’s Best Leaders. Princeton’s Baccalaureate service focuses on members of the senior class. It includes prayers and readings from various religions and philosophical traditions. The earliest recorded Baccalaureate address — titled “Religion and the Public Spirit” — was delivered by University President Samuel Davies to the 11 members of the graduating class of 1760. Seating in the chapel is limited to members of the senior class and the faculty procession. Seniors receive two tickets to a simulcast site for family and guests. Commencement 2022 View All News Connect with #Princeton22 Instagram Facebook Twitter GIPHY YouTube LinkedIn 2022 Commencement website After Princeton graduation, ROTC students are commissioned as U.S. Army and Marine Corps officers University News: Read more ‘The value of persistence’: Princeton Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement University News: Read more 2022 Commencement Salutatio by Frances Mangina (Latin and English) University News: Read more 2022 Valedictory remarks by Natalia Orlovsky University News: Read more Class of 2022 Commencement Address by President Eisgruber — 'The Value of Persistence' University News: Read more Four faculty members recognized for outstanding teaching Award: Read more Princeton awards five honorary degrees Award: Read more Four outstanding N.J. secondary school teachers honored at Princeton Commencement Award: Read more At Hooding, a ritual celebration of extraordinary scholarly accomplishment University News: Read more Dr. Fauci to Princeton seniors on Class Day: ‘It is our collective responsibility not to shrug our shoulders’ or to accept ‘the normalization of untruths’ University News: Read more Students honored for leadership and service at 2022 Class Day Award: Read more Princeton University Class of 2022 Class Day remarks by Dr. Anthony S. Fauci University News: Read more Baccalaurate speaker Wendy Kopp ’89: The path to happiness is to align our lives with our values University News: Read more 2022 Princeton Baccalaureate address by Wendy Kopp University News: Read more Reunited: Princeton alumni return to campus for the first in-person Reunions since the start of the pandemic University News: Read more Phi Beta Kappa chapter honors Alexander Davis, Casey Lew-Williams with teaching awards Award: Read more Watch: Princeton's Class of 2022 Commencement ceremony Tuesday, May 24 University News: Read more Alumni returning for Reunions 2022 this Thursday through Sunday Campus Life: Read more Graduate students honored for excellence in teaching Award: Read more Four faculty members honored for excellence in mentoring graduate students Award: Read more Commencement events for Class of 2022 and on-campus Commencement details for Class of 2020 University News: Read more Natalia Orlovsky named Princeton valedictorian, Frances Mangina selected as salutatorian Award: Read more Dr. Anthony Fauci will speak at Princeton’s 2022 Class Day University News: Read more Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice