Skip to main content Skip to main content My Account My Account Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Libraries Find & Borrow Research & Teaching Locations & Collections Visit SMU Libraries About Get Help Find & Borrow Find Books Journals & Newspapers Articles Films Music Scores & Recordings Borrow & Request Checkout & Renew Interlibrary Loan Request a Purchase Guest Services Alumni Services Research Card Research & Teaching Scholarship & Publishing GIS@SMU SMU Scholar Research Data Digital Scholarship Scholarly Impact & Publishing Copyright Teaching Support Library Materials for Courses Classroom Instruction Assignment Design Online Guides & Tutorials Locations & Collections Libraries Bridwell Library Business Library DeGolyer Library Fondren Library Hamon Arts Library Underwood Law Library Fort Burgwin Library Exhibits & Digital Collections Campus Exhibits Online Exhibits Digital Collections Special Collections & Archives Visit Visit Hours Maps & Parking Technology & Printing Policies Accessibility Spaces Places to Study Graduate Student Spaces Lockers Class & Event Spaces About About Us Staff Directory Dean's Office Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Accessibility Faculty & Student Awards Join Us Staff & Student Employment Internships Student Advisory Board Friends of SMU Libraries Connect with Us News Events Social Media Contact Us Get Help Ask Us (email, chat, text, call) Research Guides by Discipline How Do I . . . ? Guides Find Your Librarian Attend Workshops Writing Support ☰ Libraries Teaching Support Assignment Design Assignment Design A librarian can provide expert insights to ensure your assignments appropriately assess your students’ abilities to use research resources. Work with your subject librarian to create effective assignments and assessments. Student Learning Outcomes (SLOs) Student Learning Outcomes (SLOs) for research assignments are based on the Framework for Information Literacy for Higher Education. You will work with your librarian to decide which outcomes match best with your assignment goals. Students evaluate information with an understanding of context. Identify different kinds of authority Recognize indicators of authority within the discipline Identify when authority might be challenged Evaluate how personal bias may impact source evaluation Students understand how and why information is produced. Identify various types of disciplinary information, how they are produced, and why they are valued Distinguish between primary and secondary sources Consider the advantages or disadvantages of different methods of publication Match information needs to appropriate types of information Students recognize that information has value and use and manage information ethically. Give credit to others’ work through proper citation Compare quality of information in free and proprietary sources Recognize issues around lack of access to information Determine how groups may be underrepresented or marginalized in information systems Identify concepts related to copyright and fair use Analyze issues of information privacy and commodification of information Students approach research with open-minded inquiry. Formulate questions for research based on information gaps Break down complex questions to researchable units Identify multiple perspectives as possible avenues for research Recognize valuable and relevant sources Students understand that knowledge is developed through sustained discourse and competing perspectives. Compare authoritative sources that do not agree Evaluate and synthesize competing perspectives Track the evolution of understanding on a topic Students apply critical thinking, perseverance, and knowledge of information systems to search. Identify the functionality of information tools Match information needs to appropriate search tools Develop and refine search strategies and terminology appropriate to the tool Research Assignment Stipend You may choose to apply for a Research Assignment Stipend when developing an assignment with a librarian. Winning faculty members are awarded a $1000 stipend upon completion of a report on the impact on learning in the course. Teaching Support Library Materials for Courses Classroom Instruction Assignment Design Online Guides & Tutorials Maps & Directions | Contact Us | Feedback Accessibility | Legal Disclosures © SMU Libraries, PO Box 750135, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share