Skip to main content Information for: Students Faculty Staff Researchers Information Technology Toggle navigation ! Search form > Search Search form > Search Help Desk Overview Help Form Live Chat Drop-in & Virtual Support Help/How-to Documentation Service Request Forms Alerts & Announcements Security Report a Security Concern Security Awareness Training Data Classification & Compliance Passwords Phishing Vendor Risk Assessment Services Accounts & Passwords Alumni Services Business Intelligence Cloud Services Email PittNet VPN (GlobalProtect) PittNet Research Student Services Telecommunications (Voice) Software for Faculty Software for Staff Software for Departments Software for Students How to Get Software Software Training Panther Bytes Blog IT Newsletter Technology Workshop Classes Departmental Training About Office of the CIO IT Vision and Strategy IT Advisory Committee (ITAC) Accessibility Employment Contact Us Community Engagement In the News Events Calendar IT Resources for Students Browse hundreds of software titles and services available to Pitt students. Learn More Pitt IT Virtual Lab Access 20 software titles from nearly any device with an internet connection. Learn More Need Help with IT? The 24/7 IT Help Desk is here to help—anytime, day and night. Help Desk Remote IT Resources Find IT resources that enable you to learn, teach, and work when you can’t get to campus. Learn more Phishing Awareness Keep an Eye Out for Phishing Scams A fake Help Desk email scam looks like it's from Pitt IT and links to a fake Pitt Passport login page. Outstanding Account Balance scam that implies that a payment is in progress includes a harmful attachment. A fake UNICEF Work-From-Home Job Opportunity Scam appears to be from a legitimate Pitt email address. Mailbox Full and Employee Assistance Program Scams trick users into supplying their University password. Learn how to spot a scam Features & News Features & News Summer’s Top 5 Tech Learning Opportunities The next few months give many students, staff, and faculty a perfect opportunity to engage in personal learning and professional development. We recommend brushing up on your tech skills. Read the Panther Bytes Blog Features & News Tech for the Finals Frenzy Knowing how to use the technology tools available to you can help you power through the final push of the semester so you can finish strong. Here’s what you need to know. Read the Panther Bytes Blog Features & News End of Semester Tech Tips & Tasks Whether you’re graduating at the end of April, looking to land a good summer position, or planning to relax for a few months, here are some tech tasks we recommend you complete. Read the Panther Bytes Blog Features & News 5 Word Features You Should Be Using Most people can do basic formatting in Word without a thought, but have little need for the most advanced capabilities. Here are 5 lesser-known features that can be life-savers. Read the Panther Bytes Blog Features & News From Punch Cards to Supercomputers The University has been harnessing the power of computing since long before PCs sat on people’s desks. See how computing at Pitt has transformed over the past 5+ decades. Read the Panther Bytes Blog Home Initiatives Enterprise Relationship Management Pitt continues to develop its ERM system to expand engagement, enrich connections, and improve information sharing between areas of the University. Learn More About ERM Student Computing Lab Renovations Renovations to the computing labs are bringing increased personal space at workstations, more collaboration options, and improved bring-your-own-device areas. Learn More About Renovations Pitt Password Manager (LastPass) Pitt Password Manager creates strong, unique passwords and remembers them—so you don’t have to. Learn More About LastPass Calendar View Full Calendar News View All News A recent broadband symposium highlighted the growing digital divide Pittwire, 4/29/22 Pittsburgh Calls Itself the Robotics Capital of the World. But It’s Also the Birthplace of Cybersecurity Technical.ly, 4/28/22 Digital equity workers in Pennsylvania, this is your moment Technical.ly, 4/26/22 Tweets by UPittIT IT Service Status Pitt Email PittNet Wired Network PittNet Wi-Fi Voice Services / Telecommunications Student Information System (PeopleSoft) Enterprise Active Directory Scheduled Maintenance IT Service Health Service Announcements Monday, May 23, 2022 - 10:15am 24/7 IT Help Desk Provides All Canvas Support in June Pitt Information Technology is pleased to share that technical support for the University’s Learning Management System (Canvas) is fully transitioning to the 24/7 IT Help... Tuesday, May 17, 2022 - 10:01am Student Information System Unavailable During Maintenance Scheduled for May 21-22 PeopleSoft, PeopleSoft/HighPoint Campus Experience, and PeopleSoft Mobile will be unavailable during vendor maintenance scheduled for the Student Information System beginning... All Alerts Security Alerts Thursday, May 26, 2022 - 3:07pm Phishing Alert: Fraudulent Job Scam The scammer’s goal is either to defraud the victim or to enlist the victim’s unknowing participation in criminal activity.... Tuesday, May 24, 2022 - 1:03pm Phishing Alert: New Scam Threatens to Terminate Your Outlook Account The scam appears to come from a Pitt email address and links to a malicious form hosted in Google Docs. All Notifications IT Support for Everyone Students Get connected, find computer labs, and support your academic journey with reliable tech. View Student Resources Faculty Enjoy great IT services that support your teaching, research, and everything in between. View Faculty Resources Staff Support Pitt’s mission with powerful digital tools, tech help, and dependable IT services. View Staff Resources Our Services View All Services Email Log In | Learn More Alumni Services Learn More Software Log In | View Software Accounts & Passwords Log In | Learn More Cloud Storage (Box and OneDrive) Log In | Learn More PittNet Learn More Student Services Learn More Research Resources Learn More Business Intelligence Learn More View All Services Drop-In Support (hours vary) Litchfield Towers Lobby University Store on Fifth Pitt IT Administrative Offices Cathedral of Learning, 7th Floor 4200 Fifth Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15260 Follow @UPittIT Submit Website Feedback » 24/7 IT Help Desk Call 412-624-HELP (4357) Submit a Help Ticket Chat with an Expert Email helpdesk@pitt.edu Search How-To Articles Student Computing Labs Alumni Hall, Room B-40 Bellefield Hall, Room 314 Benedum Hall, Room B-06 Cathedral of Learning, Room G-27 Cathedral of Learning, Room G-62 David Lawrence Hall, Room 230 Sutherland Hall, Room 120 Virtual Computing Lab Charging Stations » Pitt Print Station Locations » IT Services & Systems Access Accounts Self-Service Box Cloud Collaboration Document Management (Perceptive Content) Electronic Research Notebooks (LabArchives) Email and Calendar (Outlook) eSignature (DocuSign) Faculty Information System (Elements) Find People IT Service Status Learning Management System (Canvas) Lecture Capture (Panopto) Microsoft Office 365 My Pitt Pitt Mobile App Center Pitt Worx Pitt Print PRISM Residence Hall Wi-Fi (MyResNet) Software Download Service Student Information System (PeopleSoft) IT Resources for Faculty Researchers Staff Students Join Our Team IT Professional Opportunities IT Student Employment Technology Training Instructor-Led Workshops On-Demand Training (LinkedIn Learning) Additional Resources Accessibility Statement Center for Research Computing Disability Resources and Services IT Vision and Strategy University Policies Related to Technology Revised 05/31/22 Copyright © 2022