Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Information Technology Center for Equitable Digital Access Welcome To Our Center Bridging the digital divIde The Division of Information Technology, in partnership with the Pollak Library, is committed to fostering full inclusion by providing devices and access to a comprehensive technology ecosystem for all students. This commitment has led to the creation of the Center for Equitable Digital Access (CEDA), through which all students will have equal access to technology. By making technology available and providing necessary training, the CEDA will support campus efforts to bridge the digital divide for all students by ensuring access to a device through either the CSUCCESS initiative or the TitanWare program. These devices serve as the center of the digital ecosystem at CSUF and meet the need for both curricular instruction and co-curricular activities. The CEDA is located on the 2nd floor of the library north, where a wide range of technology resources are already available, including the Data Visualization Center, Innovation/Makerspace, and the Interdisciplinary College Collaboration Space with lab computers for each college. OUR MISSION The Center for Equitable Digital Access, in partnership with Pollak Library, aims to serve as a hub for technology resources, services, and activities designed to advance student success. Our goal is to provide all students with the technology solutions needed to thrive academically and in the workplace. We are committed to supporting university efforts to bridge the digital divide by providing devices and appropriate support to all students in support of their academic journey. OUR VISION AND SERVICES Empower all students, through equitable access, to become digital citizens. Collaborate with Student Affairs, Campus Clubs and Organizations on events and programs. Provide Digital Literacy Training for students. PROGRAMS CSUCCESS Program includes: iPad Air, Apple Pencil, Apple Smart Keyboard Folio TITANWARE Program includes: Microsoft Surface Laptop Go TRAINING & RESOURCES Wi-Fi Setup Connecting to eduroam network LinkedIn Training Courses and videos for students Adobe Creative Cloud Pro Dropbox Microsoft Office 365 OneDrive OTHER CAMPUS RESOURCES TitanWare Titan Tech Laptop Checkout Data Visualization Center Digital Print Services E-Sports | Innovation/Makerspace Interdisciplinary College Collaboration Space EVENTS & IN-PERSON TRAINING Connect With Us Location: Pollak Library North, 2nd Floor Phone: 657-278-CEDA (2332) Email: ceda@fullerton.edu Center Office Hours: Monday - Friday, 8:00am - 5:00pm Device Pick Up: During Library Hours This site is maintained by Division of Information Technology. Last Published 5/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ceda@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.