Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF THE ENVIRONMENT SCHOOL OF ENVIRONMENTAL & FOREST SCIENCE SCHOOL OF ENVIRONMENT AND FOREST RSRCS Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 SEFS 500 Graduate Orientation Seminar (1) Introduction to graduate study at the School, student resources and services, and current research. Required for all new graduate students in SEFS. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 500 SEFS 501 Forest Ecology (5) Brian J Harvey Forest ecology through a lens of community ecology, using examples from the Pacific Northwest and around the world. Builds on foundational knowledge to develop a deep understanding of current research and application from a diversity of perspectives and topics (fire, insect outbreaks, windstorms, succession, ecophysiology, ecosystem processes, wildlife habitat, climate change, and forest management). Includes field trips in Pacific Northwest. Prerequisite: at least one course in ecology, biology, or environmental science, or permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 501 SEFS 502 Analytical Techniques for Community Ecology (4) J. BAKKER Analysis of ecological data, focusing on community-level data. Topics include distance measures, group comparison methods (Mantel test, permutational MANOVA), ordinations (PCA, DCA, NMS), methods of identifying groups (cluster analysis, classification trees), as well as Indicator Species Analysis, diversity measures, and related topics. Prerequisite: Q SCI 482, which may be taken concurrently. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 502 SEFS 503 Current Issues in Restoration Ecology and Environmental Horticulture (1, max. 10) Critical evaluation and discussion of published research in urban horticulture and restoration. Students and faculty present and discuss research methods and questions from current literature. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 503 SEFS 504 Social Science Research Design and Methods (4) Detailed emphasis on social science research design. Comprehensive survey of research processes for graduate students. Diagnostic and prescriptive evaluation of student research capabilities. Problem and hypothesis formulation, study design, multi-method strategies for gathering and analyzing data, and interpretation and presentation of results. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 504 SEFS 506 Terrestrial Invasion Ecology (5) P. Tobin Covers major principles of invasion biology and ecology as they apply to terrestrial ecosystems, from invasion pathways and the arrival stage, factors that affect non-native species establishment and spread, impacts to ecosystem function and diversity, and stage-specific management strategies. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 506 SEFS 507 Soils and Land Use Problems (4) Environmental concerns of soils; how soil properties control potential and reasonable possibilities of land use. Includes factors controlling soil stability, hydrology, fertility, and movement of pollutants. Field trip oriented with weekly activity summaries. Students also conduct field trips to soil-use problem sites. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 507 SEFS 508 Plant Process and Systems Modeling (3) S. Kim This course explores principles and techniques of quantitative modeling used in plant biology and ecology for graduate and advanced undergraduate students. An emphasis will be given to process-based models that integrate underlying physiological and ecological processes in plant systems. Instruction methods will include lectures, discussions, hands-on computer exercises, assignments, project, and reading primary research articles in modeling. Recommended: Plant biology, Ecology, Algebra, Calculus, Scientific computing Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 508 SEFS 509 Analysis of Research Problems (3) S. RABOTYAGOV Natural resource issues emerge from interactions between humans and their biophysical world. Understanding resource problems and solutions requires integration of numerous areas of knowledge and methods of discovery. Objectives include exposure to, and development of, fundamental issues and skills essential for natural resource professionals, including development of a research plan. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 509 SEFS 510 Fundamentals of Plant-Soil Interactions (3) Introduction to soils and the plants that depend on them. Topics include the physical and chemical properties of soil, the interactions between soil, water, plants, and our environment, and the importance of soil for sustainable silviculture and food production. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 510 SEFS 512 Biogeochemical Cycling in Soils and Forest Ecosystems (3) Elemental cycles in forests and soils. Fundamentals of processes involved in cycling are addressed along with alterations resulting from environment, vegetation, and soil types. Consideration of cycles of nutrients, metals, and other elements. Weekly discussion section reviews literature on biogeochemical cycling. Prerequisite: one soils course or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 512 SEFS 513 Advanced Soil Genesis and Classification (5) Soil formation, morphology, classification, and relationship to the environment. Labs and field trips illustrate properties and processes of forest and grassland soils in Washington. Requires two weekend field trips and a graduate project. Prerequisite: CFR 510 or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 513 SEFS 514 Advanced Forest Soil Fertility and Chemistry (4) Chemical properties of soil, nutrient, and toxic elements; supply, retention, and loss of nutrients in soils; utilization of geochemical and ecosystem models such as GEOCHEM, MAGIC, TRICLE-DOWN, and ILWAS in developing a quantitative understanding of the chemical function of forest ecosystems. Prerequisite: general chemistry and geology of soils. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 514 SEFS 515 Advanced Soil and Plant Analysis (3) Plants and animals must acquire nutrient elements from their environment. Quantifying the composition of samples is the first step in understanding the processes in natural and manmade systems. Sampling, handling, preparation, storage, and analysis stressed. Prerequisite: one botany or plant science course, instrumental analysis, soils. Offered: Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 515 SEFS 520 Geographic Information Systems in Forest Resources (5) J. Lawler Applications of GIS technology to forest science and management. Fundamentals of GIS systems: data sources, preprocessing, map analysis, output; remote sensing as a source of GIS data, image analysis, and classification. Emphasis on GIS as a source of management and technical information requests. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 520 SEFS 521 Current Topics in Forest Resources (2-5, max. 10) Critical evaluation and discussion of published research in the broad field of forest resources. Topics and requirements vary. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 521 SEFS 522 Plant Microbiology Seminar (2, max. 4) Sharon L. Doty Microbes, often essential for plant growth, provide nutrients, pathogen resistance, and increased tolerance to stress. Other microbes may cause plant diseases. Covers plant microbe interactions. Requires literature review of a plant microbiology topic. Recommended: undergraduate background that includes biology. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 522 SEFS 523 Environmental Applications of Plants: Bioenergy and Bioremediation (3) S. DOTY Covers phytoremediation (removing pollutants using plants), biofuel production, and carbon sequestration. Focuses on the biology rather than the chemistry. Emphasizes the latest research on how current practices in these areas are being improved. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 523 SEFS 524 Current Topics in Phytoremediation (2) S. DOTY Discussion of current scientific research in the use of plants for remediation of pollution. One paper is student-presented per week and critiqued and discussed in class. Prerequisite: SEFS 523 Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 524 SEFS 525 Advanced Wildland Hydrology (4) Advanced treatment of hydrologic cycle and basic hydrologic methods as applied to wildlands. Effects of forest management activities on hydrologic processes. Graduate focus on a detailed field or modeling hydrologic analysis. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 525 SEFS 526 Seminar in Advanced Silviculture (3) Seminar on current and emerging silvicultural issues and underlying biological principles. Topics include: stand management to enhance wildlife, biodiversity, and high productivity in sub-tropical and tropical regions; computer simulation of stand growth; adaptation to changes in management objectives; soil conditions and productivity during stand rotation; and minimizing effects of catastrophic disruption. Prerequisite: ESRM 428. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 526 SEFS 527 Ecosystems Seminar (1) Discussion by invited speakers on current research related to ecosystems. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 527 SEFS 529 School of Environmental and Forest Sciences Seminar (1, max. 6) Weekly seminars covering School of Environmental and Forest Sciences topics, with lectures from scientists on and off campus. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 529 SEFS 530 Introduction to Restoration Ecology (3/5) J. BAKKER Provides introduction to ecological restoration of damaged ecosystems. Examines the philosophical base of restoration as well as the social, biological, and political forces that impact the success of any restoration project. Includes lectures, readings, case studies and field trips. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 530 SEFS 532 Advanced Remote Sensing and Earth Observation (4) Covers the theory and application of satellite remote sensing as a tool for environmental science. Topics include the fundamentals of electromagnetic radiation, reflection and absorption, black body radiation, use of the Plank Function, satellite and sensor technology, map projections, integration of GIS data, and digital image analysis. Practical training with advanced image processing software (ENVI and open source). Recommended: GIS; statistics; and basic physics. Offered: jointly with CEWA 532; W. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 532 SEFS 533 Airborne Lidar for Remote Sensing of Vegetation and Geomorphology (5) L. MOSKAL Focuses on the applications of lidar data, its interpretation, and processing. Students apply information learned from lectures and laboratory projects to a final project that analyzes vegetation structure, geomorphology, or hydrology. Prerequisite: either ESRM 250, SEFS 520, ESRM 430, FISH 452, FISH 502, FISH 552, or GEOG 360. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 533 SEFS 535 Fire Ecology (4) Ernesto Alvarado Fire regime concept as applied to fire ecology. Methodology for fire history research. History and function of forest fire in Western United States with emphasis on Pacific Northwest. One weekend field trip. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 535 SEFS 540 Optimization Techniques for Natural Resources (5) S. TOTH Studies optimization techniques for natural resources managers including spatial optimization; linear, integer, and multi-objective programming; and stochastic and combinatorial optimization. Emphasizes model building rather than on algorithmic concepts. Prerequisite: MATH 308 or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 540 SEFS 541 Advanced Landscape Ecology (5) B. Harvey, J. Lawler Hands-on, applied, project-based research class. Students work in a team in conjunction with one or more outside partners to address real landscape-scale conservation problems. Covers scaling, landscape processes, pattern measurement, connectivity, landscape modeling, and conservation planning. Prerequisite: SEFS 501. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 541 SEFS 549 Urban Horticulture Seminar (1, max. 6) Discussion by invited speakers on current topics in urban horticulture. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 549 SEFS 550 Graduate Seminar (2-5, max. 10) Graduate seminar to evaluate and discuss current research topics. Topics and requirements vary. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 550 SEFS 554 Wildlife Seminar (1-2, max. 10) Discussion of current research and application in wildlife biology and conservation. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 554 SEFS 557 Demographic Estimation and Modeling (4) Knowledge and practical skills in demographic estimation and modeling, with a focus on capture-recapture modeling. Emphasis on hands-on practice in fitting models, including models integrating multiple data streams. Recommended: graduate level coursework in introductory statistics, with an emphasis on linear models; and working knowledge of R programming language. Offered: jointly with FISH 557; W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 557 SEFS 561 Professional Presentations in Environmental Sciences (3) Gregory Bratman Students learn to make public presentations in scientific, professional, and popular contexts and to interpret technical information for professional and lay audiences by developing and practicing professional talks in a supportive environment. Students gain experience through tools and feedback on their approach to presentation materials. Discusses support materials, such as audiovisuals and graphics. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 561 SEFS 564 Advanced Forest Biometry (3/5) Eric Turnblom Classical problems in analysis of forest populations and growth theory, and principles of parametric analysis and estimation processes in forest biometry. Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 564 SEFS 567 Topics in Advanced Ecology (3, max. 6) Discusses literature on active research areas or controversies in different branches of ecology. Offered: jointly with BIOL 567/FISH 567; W. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 567 SEFS 570 Seminar in Environmental Sociology (3) Offered: jointly with SOC 570. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 570 SEFS 571 Resource Policy and Administration (4) Study based on understanding of the actors, arenas, issues, and policy communities that form the context for policy development and implementation. Exploration of approaches to policy inquiry. Consideration of implications for both policy and management. Students develop a study design for course project. Offered: jointly with PUBPOL 592. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 571 SEFS 574 Restoration Problem Solving: Ecological Engineering (5) J. FRIDLEY Exposes students to real-life problem solving that involves the design and manipulation of natural systems to perform ecological function. Focuses on the analysis, design, and implementation of discrete projects. Includes projects dealing with plants, hydrology, earthwork, waste and pollution management, as well as other resources and problems. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 574 SEFS 590 Graduate Studies (1-5, max. 10) Study of emerging scientific developments in forest resources that may develop into regular course offerings. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 590 SEFS 595 Graduate Teaching Practicum (1-5, max. 5) Principles of teaching and learning applied to undergraduate instruction in the School of Environmental and Forest Sciences. Development, delivery, and evaluation of lectures and homework assignments. Graduate teaching experience for SEFS students only. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 595 SEFS 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 600 SEFS 601 Internship (3-9, max. 9) Graduate internship under the supervision of a faculty member. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 601 SEFS 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 700 SEFS 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SEFS 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022