Skip to main content Menu Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Research About Home About Who We Are Recognition and Awards Council for Diversity & Inclusion Corporate CDO Advisory Board Programs and Initiatives Men of Color National Summit Women's Roundtable Pre-Summit Supporting Diversity Contact Us Shared Leadership Access and Equity Charles H. Houston Center Diversity Education and Training Gantt Multicultural Center Hispanic Outreach Strategic Planning for Inclusive Excellence Title IX Commissions Accessibility Commission Commission on the Black Experience Commission on Latino Affairs LGBTQ Commission Commission on Women Veterans Commission Main Content Inclusion and Equity Clemson University aspires to create a diverse community that welcomes people of different races, cultures, ages, genders, sexual orientation, religions, socioeconomic levels, political perspectives, abilities, opinions, values and experiences. Inclusion and Equity Guiding the University toward a more inclusive, diverse campus and community environment. Learn more about us and what we do > News and Events Clemson Libraries names Cromartie associate dean for organizational performance and inclusion The fight against school segregation began in South Carolina, long before it ended with Brown v. Board Future leaders get VIP treatment at Clemson’s second Women’s Roundtable event More than 2,200 people participate in Clemson’s fifth Men of Color National Summit Upcoming Events JUL 10 Tours of Woodland Cemetery and the African American Burial Ground 12:00 pm to 4:00 pm Woodland Cemetery Featured Initiatives MEN OF COLOR SUMMIT The mission of the Clemson University Men of Color National Summit is to close the opportunity gap for African-American and Hispanic males, from cradle to career. The summit brings together approximately 2,000 high school and college students, business professionals, educators, government officials and community leaders from around the country. TIGER ALLIANCE Knowledge is power. Clemson University is taking bold steps to help empower, enlighten and develop African-American and Hispanic males. As part of the Men of Color summit, we have introduced a high school component called Tiger Alliance, which includes and involves African-American and Hispanic males from the local area. EMERGING SCHOLARS The Clemson Emerging Scholars Program helps students from South Carolina’s I-95 Corridor learn what it takes to go to college. We concentrate on academic preparation, leadership skills and the college application process. Students not only stay on Clemson’s campus several times throughout the program but we work with students in their schools and community. . EXPLORE ALL INITIATIVES > The Houston Group The Houston Group, named for Charles H. Houston who fought for social justice and change, is based out of a preeminent think tank for diversity practices. We create action plans to assist you in meeting your goals, while also assessing your company’s progress and helping you understand its growth. All of our methods are grounded in data, models, and statistics. We conduct, analyze, and implement research into tangible and innovative solutions for corporations and businesses. Reach out to our experts at The Houston Group for an initial discovery meeting to begin a dialogue. You’ll be taking the first step to make a change in your company. LEARN MORE ABOUT THE HOUSTON GROUP > Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram