Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information CUIMC Celebrates 2019-20, Issue 4 February 19, 2020 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email CUIMC CELEBRATES acknowledges faculty, staff, and students at Columbia University Irving Medical Center who receive major research grants, who earn prestigious honors, who are elected to honorary societies, or who take leadership positions in professional organizations. Celebrates also gratefully acknowledges the gifts made by donors and friends of the medical center and highlights faculty who have appeared in the news recently. If you have an award or honor that you would like to have listed in Celebrates, please fill out this online form. Please note: All federal grants are automatically included based on institutional data provided by Sponsored Projects Administration. For more information, send an e-mail to the Celebrates editor. Older issues of CUIMC Celebrates can be found in the archive. Contents Research Grants Awards & Honors Philanthropic Gifts CUIMC in the News RESEARCH GRANTS New awards of $250,000 and above received through December 2019 VAGELOS COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS Graham Barr, MD, Medicine, will receive $8,945,997 over four years from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute for “Combined Cardiopulmonary Failure in COPD: SPIROMICS HF.” William Blaner, PhD, Medicine, will receive $425,250 over two years from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism for “Alcohol, Retinoids and Pancreas Biology.” Andrea Califano, PhD, and Alessandro Vasciaveo, PhD, Systems Biology, will receive $322,931 over two years from the Army Medical Research and Materiel Command for “Addressing Treatment Resistance in Models of Lethal Prostate Cancer by Identifying Novel Targets for Drug Discovery.” Julie Canman, PhD, Pathology & Cell Biology, will receive $1,267,235 over four years from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences for “Probing the Spatiotemporal Regulation of Cell Division.” Robert Carter, MD, Pediatrics, will receive $2,388,726 over four years from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism for “Identification of Fetal Alcohol-Affected Children: Alterations in Imprinted Gene Expression and Methylation as Biomarkers of Neurobehavioral and Growth Impairment.” Catherine Clelland, PhD, Pathology & Cell Biology, will receive $467,549 over two years from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism for “A Novel Personalized Approach Towards Treating Negative Symptoms and Reducing Alcohol Abuse in Patients with Comorbid AUD and Schizophrenia.” Piero Dalerba, MD, Pathology & Cell Biology, will receive $359,899 over one year from the New York State Department of Health for “A Novel Biomarker to Improve Risk-Prediction in Familial Breast Cancer Patients.” Philip De Jager, MD, PhD, Neurology, will receive $1,379,324 over five years from the National Institute on Aging for a subaward of “Therapeutic Target Discovery in ADSP Data via Comprehensive Whole-Genome Analysis Incorporating Ethnic Diversity and Systems Approaches.” Changchun Deng, MD, PhD, Medicine, will receive $374,524 over two years from Applied Therapeutics Inc. for “PI3K Gamma/Delta Inhibitor Compounds and Methods for Treating Lymphoid Malignancies.” Lisa Dixon, MD, Psychiatry, will receive $1,170,194 over three years from the Substance Abuse & Mental Health Services Administration for a subaward of “Mental Disorders Prevalence Study.” Charles Drake, MD, PhD, Medicine, will receive $1,000,000 over two years from the Prostate Cancer Foundation for “Maximizing Androgen Deprivation Immunogenicity with PD-1 and IL-8 Blockade in Lethal Prostate Cancer.” Charles Emala, MD, Anesthesiology, will receive $1,915,528 over four years from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute for “Novel Nutriceuticals Relax Airway Smooth Muscle and Decrease Inflammation in Allergic Lung Disease.” Donna Farber, PhD, Microbiology & Immunology, will receive $328,123 over two years from the Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust for “The Role of Gamma-Delta T Cells in Human Early Life Immunity.” Joachim Frank, PhD, Biochemistry & Molecular Biophysics, will receive $1,401,133 over four years from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences for “Time-Resolved Cryo-EM of Short-Lived States in Eukaryotic Translation.” Adam Gerber, MD, PhD, Anesthesiology, will receive $250,000 over one year from the Foundation for Anesthesia Education & Research for “Attenuation of LPS Induced Lung Injury with an Inhaled MMP Inhibitor.” Wei Gu, PhD, Institute for Cancer Genetics, will receive $1,923,750 over five years from the National Cancer Institute for “Regulation of p53 Acetylation and Deacetylation in Tumorigenesis.” Jose Gutierrez Contreras, MD, Neurology, will receive $3,103,759 over five years from the National Institute on Aging for “Accelerated Non-Atherosclerotic Brain Arterial Aging Relationship to Alzheimer’s Disease.” Dawn Hershman, MD, Medicine, will receive $1,396,752 over six years from the National Cancer Institute for a subaward of “SWOG NCORP Research Base” and $250,000 over one year from the Breast Cancer Research Foundation for “Interventions to Reduce Therapy Related Adverse Effects.” Michio Hirano, MD, Neurology, will receive $8,194,090 over five years from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke for “The North American Mitochondrial Disease Consortium.” Jianhua Hu, PhD, Medicine, will receive $2,025,813 over five years from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases for “Novel Analysis of Association between Microbiome and Treatment Infection in AML.” Syed Hussaini, PhD, Pathology & Cell Biology, will receive $445,500 over two years from the National Institute on Aging for “Decoding Early Signs of Alzheimer’s Disease in the Lateral Entorhinal Cortex Using Machine Learning.” Simon John, PhD, Ophthalmology, will receive $1,500,000 over three years from Pew Charitable Trusts for “New Ideas in Glaucoma Research.” Manu Johny, PhD, Physiology & Cellular Biophysics, will receive $1,746,202 over five years from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke for “Tuning of CaV Channel Dynamics by STAC Proteins.” Kevin Kalinsky, MD, Medicine, will receive $300,643 over one year from the Breast Cancer Research Foundation for “Circulating Biomarker Determinants of Late Relapse.” Stavroula Kousteni, PhD, Physiology & Cellular Biophysics, will receive $600,000 over three years from the V Foundation for Cancer Research for “Targeting the Bone Marrow Niche to Treat MDS and AML” and $356,400 over one year from the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases for “Molecular Basis of the Inhibitory Effects of ATRA on Osteoblast-Induced MDS/AML.” Ian Kronish, MD, and Donald Edmondson, PhD, Medicine, will receive $2,978,908 over five years from the National Institute on Aging for “Columbia Roybal Center for Fearless Behavior Change.” Sandra Lee, PhD, Medical Humanities & Ethics, will receive $3,034,172 over five years from the National Human Genome Research Institute for a subaward of “ELSI.hub: National Center for ELSI Resources and Analysis.” Richard Levy, MD, Anesthesiology, will receive $1,247,111 over five years from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke for a subaward of “Mitochondrial Control of Protein Translation in Fragile X.” Chao Lu, PhD, Genetics & Development, will receive $300,000 over four years from Pew Charitable Trusts for “Synthetics and Lineage Dependencies of Cancers Driven by Epigenome Abnormalities.” Jennifer Lue, MD, Medicine, will receive $259,494 over one year from Denovo Biopharma for “Exploring the Activity of Enzastaurin Alone and in Combination with Select Compounds in Non-Hodgkin Lymphomas.” Laura Beth McIntire, PhD, Pathology & Cell Biology, will receive $809,997 over three years from the Army Medical Research and Materiel Command for “Optogenetic Regulation of Phosphoinositide Metabolism in Susceptibility, Resistance and Resiliency to Alzheimer’s Disease-Associated Deficits and Pathology.” Cathy Lee Mendelsohn, PhD, Urology, Ali Gharavi, MD, Medicine, and Jonathan Barasch, MD, PhD, Medicine, will receive $2,400,000 over five years from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases for “Investigating the Genetic, Cellular, and Metabolic Events Important for Urothelial Homeostasis and Response to Urinary Tract Infection.” Catherine Monk, PhD, Obstetrics & Gynecology, will receive $995,905 over two years from the Bezos Family Foundation for “PREPP & Mental Health in ObGyn.” George Musa, PhD, Psychiatry, will receive $957,827 over five years from the National Institute of Mental Health for a subaward of “Uncovering the Risk Architecture of Suicidal Behaviors: A Representative Sample at High Risk.” Edward Nunes Jr., MD, Psychiatry, will receive $1,571,448 over five years from the National Institute on Drug Abuse for a subaward of “Facilitating Opioid Care Connections: System Level Strategies to Improve Use of MAT and Movement Through the Opioid Care Cascade for Defendants in a New Opioid Court System” and $469,804 over four years from the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences for a subaward of “Coordinated Medical Treatment of Opioid Use Disorder and Infectious Disease.” Priya Palta, PhD, Medicine, will receive $7,203,429 over five years from the National Institute on Aging for “Blood Pressure and ADRD in African Americans: The Jackson Heart Study.” Livio Pellizzoni, PhD, Pathology & Cell Biology, will receive $2,909,220 over five years from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke for “Essential Role of Stasimon in Motor Circuit Development and Disease.” Adler Perotte, MD, Biomedical Informatics, will receive $1,698,653 over five years from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute for a subaward of “Deep Probabilistic Predictive Models for Stroke and Coronary Heart Disease.” Konstantin Petrukhin, PhD, Ophthalmology, will receive $809,722 over three years from the Army Medical Research and Materiel Command for “Fluorenone Drug for Treatment of Combat-Related Traumatic Optic Neuropathy.” Matteo Porotto, PhD, Pediatrics, will receive $492,576 over one year from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases for “Small Molecules to Block Measles Spreading in the Central Nervous System.” Vincent Racaniello, PhD, Microbiology & Immunology, will receive $445,500 over two years from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases for “Role of Astrocyte Infection in Viral Neurovirulence.” Christiane Reitz, MD, PhD, Neurology, will receive $1,923,238 over one year from the National Institute on Aging for a subaward of “Dissecting the Genomic Etiology of Non-Mendelian Early-Onset Alzheimer Disease and Related Phenotypes.” Rodney Rothstein, PhD, Genetics & Development, will receive $386,374 over two years from Cellectis SA for “Mechanisms of Recombination Stimulated by 3’-Overhangs, 5’-Overhangs or Blunt Ends.” Mishaela Rubin, MD, Medicine, will receive $1,453,286 over five years from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases for “Skeletal Fragility in Type 1 Diabetes: Glycemic Control and Bone Strength.” Robert Schwabe, MD, Medicine, will receive $2,079,884 over four years from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases for “DAMPs and Their Receptors Link Hepatocyte Death to HSC Activation and Liver Fibrosis.” Peter Sims, PhD, Systems Biology, will receive $1,268,297 over three years from the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative for a subaward of “An Integrated Map of the Immune System in Humans Across Tissues and Ages.” Scott Small, MD, Neurology, will receive $592,000 over two years from the Fidelity Biosciences Research Initiative for “Neuronal Retromer and Microglia.” Steven Spitalnik, MD, Pathology & Cell Biology, will receive $8,911,691 over four years from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute for “The Impact of Oxidative Stress on Erythrocyte Biology.” Thomas Stroup, MD, Psychiatry, will receive $314,667 over five years from the National Institute of Mental Health for a subaward of “OnTrackNY’s Learning Healthcare System.” Lena Sun, MD, Anesthesiology, will receive $1,916,514 over four years from the Food & Drug Administration for “Neurodevelopmental Outcomes in Infants Receiving Opioid-Replacement Pharmacotherapy for Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome.” Megan Sykes, MD, Medicine, will receive $3,837,184 over three years from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases for “Modeling Autoimmune Pathogenesis and Beta Cell Destruction by T1D Immune Systems.” Alison Taylor, PhD, Pathology & Cell Biology, will receive $577,368 over two years from the National Cancer Institute for “Functional Approaches to Understanding Cancer Aneuploidy: Interrogating the Effects of Chromosome 3p Deletion.” Miguel Verbitsky, PhD, Medicine, will receive $607,500 over three years from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases for “Investigation of Genomic Disorders in Chronic Kidney Disease.” Liheng Wang, PhD, Medicine, will receive $656,250 over five years from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases for “TOX4 Integrates Hormone Signaling on Hepatic Glucose and Lipid Metabolism.” Timothy C. Wang, MD, Medicine, will receive $2,065,703 over five years from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases for “Understanding Stem Cell Heterogeneity and Niche Function in Intestinal Regeneration After Irradiation.” Chaolin Zhang, PhD, Systems Biology, will receive $424,464 over five years from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke for “Novel Regulation and Function of the lncRNA Gomafu in Human Neurons.” MAILMAN SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH Andrea Baccarelli, MD, PhD, Environmental Health Sciences, will receive $277,395 over two years from the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development for a subaward of “Using EV-MicroRNAs to Identify a Non-Invasive Biomarker of Uterine Fibroid Outcomes.” Joan Casey, PhD, Environmental Health Sciences, will receive $746,998 over three years from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences for “The Impact of Unconventional Natural Gas Development on Maternal, Perinatal, and Childhood Health: An Electronic Health Record Approach.” Lynn Freedman, JD, MPH, Population & Family Health, will receive $4,202,838 over three years from the Gates Foundation for “Revisioning Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care.” Ian Lipkin, MD, Epidemiology, will receive $785,500 over one year from the Department of Veterans Affairs for “Post Exertion Malaise in GWI_Brain Autonomic and Behavioral Interactions.” Silvia Martins, PhD, Epidemiology, will receive $696,373 over five years from the National Institute on Drug Abuse for a subaward of “Impact of Medical and Recreational Marijuana Laws On Cannabis, Opioids and Psychiatric Medications: National Study of VA Patients, 2000-2024.” Barun Mathema, PhD, Epidemiology, will receive $269,756 over four years from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases for a subaward of “A Dual-Beta-Lactam Strategy for Treating Multi Drug Resistant M Abscessus.” Terry McGovern, JD, Population & Family Health, will receive $500,000 over one year from the David & Lucile Packard Foundation for “Assessing the Impact of the Expanded Global Gag Rule in Nepal and Madagascar.” Peter Muennig, MD, Health Policy & Management, will receive $566,385 over one year from the National Institute on Aging for “The Health Impacts of the MyGoals Randomized Controlled Trial.” Alfred Neugut, MD, PhD, Epidemiology, will receive $592,280 over three years from the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co. for “Otsuka-Columbia Center for Clinical Epidemiology & Health Outcomes Research.” Regina Santella, PhD, Environmental Health Sciences, will receive $250,000 over one year from the Breast Cancer Research Foundation for “Environmental Exposures, DNA Repair Capacity and Breast Cancer Risk.” Jeanette Stingone, PhD, MPH, Epidemiology, will receive $361,075 over five years from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences for a subaward of “Human Health Exposure Analysis Resources (HHEAR) Data Center.” Yifei Sun, PhD, Biostatistics, will receive $305,787 over five years from the National Institute on Aging for a subaward of “Biomarkers of Cognitive Decline Among Normal Individuals: The Biocard Cohort.” Gina Wingood, ScD, MPH, Sociomedical Sciences, will receive $420,231 over seven years from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute for a subaward of “Atlanta MACS/WIHS Combined Cohort Study Clinical Research Site.” Monette Zard, MA, Population & Family Health, will receive $996,990 over two years from the World Bank for “Answering the Big Questions in Forced Displacement and Health.” SCHOOL OF NURSING Stephen Ferrara, RN, DNP, will receive $353,671 over four years from the Health Resources and Services Administration for a subaward of “HRSA Advanced Nursing Education Nurse Practitioner Residency Program.” Tonda Hughes, PhD, RN, will receive $2,750,690 over five years from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism for “Stress, Hazardous Drinking and Intimate Partner Aggression in a Diverse Sample of Women and Their Partners.” Maxim Topaz, PhD, will receive $2,019,591 over three years from the National Institute of Nursing Research for “Improving Patient Prioritization During Hospital-Homecare Transition: A Mixed Study of a Clinical Decision Support Tool.” AWARDS & HONORS VAGELOS COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS Awards for Excellence The 2019 Martha A. Hooven Awards for Excellence honored these individuals and groups: Sheik Amin, Radiology, Officer of Administration/Administrative Professional Award First-Generation Low-Income Partnership, VP&S, Diversity Award Warren Y.K. Ng, MD, MPH, Psychiatry, Community Service Award Kara Pinaud, Radiation Oncology, the Vincent C. Santana Officer of Administration/Managerial Award Ana Rivas, Institute of Comparative Medicine, SSA Union Member/Clerical Technical Award Stephen Sastra, Medicine, Officer of Research Award Steven Z. Miller Student Clinician’s Ceremony Awards Awards given at the Steven Z. Miller Student Clinician’s Ceremony: Fundamentals Outstanding Teacher Award Stephen Canfield, MD, PhD, Medicine Major Clinical Year Outstanding Teacher Award Olajide Williams, MD, Neurology Resident Teaching Awards (all residents at NYP) Emily Avis, MD, Pediatrics Richard Greendyk, MD, Medicine Benjamin Kuritzkes, MD, Surgery Rebecca Leeds, MD, Primary Care Ruth McCann, MD, Psychiatry Sierra Seaman, MD, Obstetrics & Gynecology Clinician Awards (for non-physician members of the health care team who are integral to the medical student experience) Meredith Gibbons, CPNP, NYP Vanessa Lundin, RN, Stamford Hospital Glenna O’Keefe, LCSW-R, NYSPI Aviva Raskin, LMSW, MPH, NYSPI Greg Grove Award Joseph Cornett’22 Karl H. Perzin Excellence in Pathology Awards (to members of the Class of 2022) Michael Calavano Lucy Colville Haley Davis Patricia Ho Todd Jones Margaret Kelly-Gross Andrea Lifrieri Amber Parker Ariel Pourmorady Maggie Schaedick Yu Wang Other Honors Laurel Abbruzzese, EdD, PT, Rehabilitation & Regenerative Medicine (Physical Therapy, was named president of the Performing Arts Special Interest Group for the Academy of Orthopedic Physical Therapy by the American Physical Therapy Association. Jan Bakker, MD, PhD, Medicine, was awarded the 90-year Medal of Honor by the medical school at Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile. Amélie Collins, MD, PhD, Thomas Connors, MD, Aliva De, MD, Nicolino Valerio Dorrello, MD, PhD, Dani Dumitriu, MD, PhD, and Kanwal Farooqi, MD, Pediatrics, become members of the Society for Pediatric Research. Michael E. Goldberg, MD, Neuroscience, has been selected to receive the Distinguished Career Award from the Society for the Neural Control of Movement. Joyce Moran, CCRC, Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, was named a Fellow of the Association of Clinical Research Professionals. Anna Penn, MD, PhD, Pediatrics, was awarded the Thomas A. Hazinski Distinguished Service Award from the Pediatric Academic Societies. David Sulzer, PhD, Psychiatry, received the 2020 Eliahu Youdim & Max Finberg Award (in psychopharmacology) from the National Institute for Psychobiology in Israel. MAILMAN SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH Wafaa El-Sadr, MD, MPH, MPA, ICAP, was awarded the Cura Personalis Award, Georgetown University Medical Center’s highest honor. Mark Hatzenbuehler, PhD, Sociomedical Sciences, was elected a Fellow of the Academy of Behavioral Medicine Research. Jennifer Hirsch, PhD, Sociomedical Sciences, wrote a book, “Sexual Citizens,” that Esquire Magazine listed as being among “The Best Books Coming Out This Winter to Solve Your New Year’s Resolution to Read More.” Ian Lipkin, MD, Epidemiology, was presented a medal at a ceremony at the Chinese Consulate in New York in recognition of his profound impact on China in strengthening its public health system to protect its people from infectious disease outbreaks. SCHOOL OF NURSING The Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center received provisional accreditation from the Society for Simulation in Healthcare. Theresa Koleck, PhD, was nominated by the National Institute of Nursing Research to participate in alpha-phase user testing on the All of Us Research Program’s Researcher Workbench. Amanda Hessels, PhD, was invited to be a panel member and author for the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America/Infectious Diseases Society of America’s “Compendium of Strategies to Prevent HAIs in Acute Care Hospitals: 2020 Update.” Patricia Stone, PhD, was appointed by the Association for Professionals in Infection Control and Epidemiology to be the editor of the association’s peer-reviewed journal, the American Journal of Infection Control. Vivian Taylor, EdD, was selected by a Special Committee of the Cultural Diversity Apostolate of the Archdiocese of New York to be one of the inaugural recipients of the new Archdiocesan Bakhita Woman of Faith & Service Award. PHILANTHROPIC GIFTS Gifts received Oct. 29, 2019-Jan. 2, 2020 VAGELOS COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS A foundation made a $5,000,000 commitment to the Division of Pediatric Hematology, Oncology, and Stem Cell Transplantation to advance research in cancer and hematologic disorders. A family made a $3,000,000 commitment to the Seymour, Paul and Gloria Milstein Division of Cardiology to advance research in cardiac precision medicine. A donor made a $1,900,405 contribution to advance xenotransplantation research in the Columbia Center for Translational Immunology. A donor made a $1,650,000 commitment to the Department of Pediatrics to establish a post-doctoral fellowship focused on virology research. A donor made a $1,577,400 commitment to advance genetic research in the Division of Clinical Genetics. A foundation made a $1,500,000 commitment to establish a professorship in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery. A donor made a $1,250,000 commitment to establish a fellowship in the Seymour, Paul and Gloria Milstein Division of Cardiology. A donor made a $1,000,000 commitment to the Department of Neurology to advance amyotrophic lateral sclerosis research, clinical care, and education within the Eleanor and Lou Gehrig ALS Center. A donor made a $1,000,000 contribution to support departmental initiatives in the Department of Medicine, including precision medicine and clinical medical ethics. A foundation made a $902,475 contribution to provide scholarship support to the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. A donor made a $500,000 gift to the Department of Surgery to support the liver transplant program. A donor made a $357,000 contribution to advance research and care in the Department of Pediatrics. A donor made a $251,399 contribution to provide scholarship support and advance research in the Department of Psychiatry. A donor made a $250,000 commitment to support clinical medical ethics in the Department of Medicine. A foundation made a $250,000 commitment to the Seymour, Paul and Gloria Milstein Division of Cardiology to advance research in structural and cardiovascular diseases. A foundation made a $250,000 contribution to the Department of Psychiatry to advance depression and anxiety research. An organization made a $250,000 contribution to the Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biophysics to advance research. An organization made a $200,000 commitment to advance research and clinical care in non-verbal learning disabilities in the Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry. A family foundation made a $150,000 contribution to the Department of Neurology to support research in Parkinson’s disease and other neurological disorders. A foundation made a $120,000 contribution to advance pediatric orthopedic surgery research at the Weinberg Family Cerebral Palsy Center. An organization made a $105,000 gift to the Department of Pediatrics to advance KIF1A Associated Neurological Disorder research. A foundation made a $100,000 contribution to provide professorship support to the Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology. A donor made a $100,000 contribution to advance research at the Celiac Disease Center. A foundation made a $100,000 contribution to advance research in lysosomal storage disorders and Alzheimer’s disease at the Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer’s Disease and the Aging Brain. A donor made a $100,000 contribution to advance research in the Seymour, Paul and Gloria Milstein Division of Cardiology. A company foundation made a $100,000 contribution to provide scholarship support to the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. A bequest of $100,000 was realized to provide scholarship support to the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. A donor made a $100,000 gift to support the Dean’s Futures Fund at the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. A donor made a $100,000 contribution to advance type 1 diabetes research and clinical care at the Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center. A donor made a $100,000 contribution to the Department of Ophthalmology to support state-of-the-art equipment for the vitreoretinal division. A donor made a $100,000 contribution to advance research in the Department of Dermatology. A donor made a $100,000 contribution to provide professorship support to the Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology. A donor made a $100,000 contribution to the Division of Endocrinology to support reproductive hormonal and neuroendocrine disorders research. A company made a $100,000 gift to the Department of Neurology to support genetic research in the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. A donor made a $100,000 commitment to advance research in the Seymour, Paul and Gloria Milstein Division of Cardiology. COLLEGE OF DENTAL MEDICINE A bequest of $211,995 was realized to provide scholarship support to the College of Dental Medicine. SCHOOL OF NURSING An alumnus from the School of Nursing documented a bequest intention of $381,000 to support student scholarships. An alumnus from the School of Nursing documented a bequest intention of $125,000 to support student scholarships. An alumnus from the School of Nursing documented a bequest intention of $125,000 to support student scholarships. An alumnus from the School of Nursing documented a bequest intention of $125,000 to support student scholarships. A faculty member from the School of Nursing documented a bequest intention of $125,000 to support student scholarships. A faculty member from the School of Nursing documented a bequest intention of $125,000 to support student scholarships. A faculty member from the School of Nursing documented a bequest intention of $125,000 to support student scholarships. A friend of the School of Nursing made a gift of $100,000 to support student scholarships. MAILMAN SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH An individual made a pledge of $1,000,000 toward the Lerner Center for Public Health Promotion to support the center’s faculty, postdoctoral fellows, and conferences. An individual made a gift of $200,000 toward the Health Policy Management Research Fund. An individual made a gift of $100,000 toward the Columbia Mailman Scholarship in Public Health. CUIMC IN THE NEWS Epidemiologist Veteran of SARS and MERS Shares Coronavirus Insights after China Trip Scientific American | Feb. 12, 2020 While most people were doing what they could to avoid the epicenter of the new coronavirus outbreak, W. Ian Lipkin quietly flew to China to get closer. Lipkin, a professor of epidemiology at Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health, also traveled to Saudi Arabia in 2012 to investigate the first cases of Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). And he went to China in the early 2000s to study severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), which killed nearly 800 people. Scientist Calls for Long-Term Drug for Virus China Daily | Feb 10, 2020 While the use of existing HIV/AIDS medication is being widely adopted in China for treating patients infected with the novel coronavirus pneumonia, a top Chinese-American HIV/AIDS scientist has said it might be appropriate for short-term emergency use, but it's not a long-term solution. "We need to have drugs that target the protease of the (corona) virus," said David Ho, who has made innovative contributions to the understanding and treatment of HIV infections. Help & Healing: New Hope for Women After Miscarriage TODAY | Feb 10, 2020 Zev Williams, the Wendy D. Havens Associate Professor of Women's Health and director of the Columbia University Fertility Center, describes the technology he has developed to help women understand the genetic causes of their miscarriages. 'Save a Life' Campaign Brings Free CPR Training NY1 | Feb 13, 2020 Editor's Note: This story describes a community education program provided by the School of Nursing. Kellie Bryant, an assistant professor of nursing and the director of the Simulation Center, comments on the training's efficacy. Visit the CUIMC Newsroom for more news and features. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top