Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Student Conduct & Community Standards Conduct right arrow down arrow Incident Reporting Student Code of Conduct right arrow down arrow Student Code of Conduct Review Process Appeals Educational Workshops Academic Misconduct right arrow down arrow Information for Faculty Information for Students Academic Misconduct Process FAQ Non-Academic Misconduct right arrow down arrow Administrative Review Committee Organizational Misconduct right arrow down arrow Organizational Misconduct History Home » Campus Life » Student Conduct and Community Standards Student Conduct and Community Standards The Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards (OSC&CS) promotes a safe and scholarly community by protecting student right(s), providing student(s) and organization(s) opportunity for growth, learning, and reflection when they act in a manner inconsistent with community standards, and fostering a happy and healthy community by providing education on the UC Student Code of Conduct and the Bearcat Bond. The Bearcat Bond As a member of the University of Cincinnati, I will uphold the principles for a Just Community and the values of respect, responsibility, and inclusiveness. I will promote the highest levels of personal and academic honesty and aspire continuously to better myself, the Bearcat community, and the world. COVID-19 Response The OSC&CS is dedicated to keeping the entire Bearcat community safe. In support of the University of Cincinnati's response to COVID-19, our office will enforce all COVID-19 safety measures and protocols through the processes outlined in the Student Code of Conduct. We ask that each member of our community review the university's webpage related to COVID-19 for additional information about the university's response to the pandemic and the safety measures and protocols put in place. You can visit that webpage by clicking here. Specific information about safety measures, including the requirements related facial coverings, social distancing, mass gatherings, and more, can be found on the above linked webpage and selecting the "Campus Safety Measures" Tab. Contact Information Office Location: 745 Steger Student Life Center Phone: (513) 556-6814 Email: conduct@uc.edu Office Hours: 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m., Monday - Friday (Early morning and evening appointments available upon request) Directions to the office: Enter the Steger Student Life Center on the southeast side of the building, through the automatic accessible door near the DAAP gallery across from Center Court Dining Center. Take the elevator to the 7th floor and take a right out of the elevator. The OSC&CS is the first office on the right after the restrooms. The Office of Student Conduct & Community Standards (OSC&CS) Team Director: Ashleigh J. Wade Assistant Director: Richard Sharp Assistant Director: Vacant Program Coordinator: Jessica Jenkins Graduate Assistant: Vacant Undergraduate Student Worker: Olivia Jacquemart Student Conduct and Community Standards 745 Steger Student Life Center Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6814 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Student Conduct and Community Standards 745 Steger Student Life Center Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6814 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top