Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Departments Sociomedical Sciences Who We Are Faculty Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Message from the Chair Faculty Students Message from the Chair Faculty Students Faculty Meet our esteemed faculty whose research demonstrates the breadth and complexity of the sociomedical sciences. A list of all SMS faculty can be found here. Primary Sociomedical Sciences Faculty Angela Aidala - Dr. Aidala's sociological research and expertise cover a wide breadth of subjects including research design and methods, community programs and outreach, homelessness, poverty, HIV/AIDS, mental health, incarceration and recidivism, and urban health to name a few. She is the principal investigator of the Community Health Advisory & Information Network (CHAIN) Project, an ongoing study of persons living with HIV or at high risk of infection in New York City. Ronald Bayer - Dr. Bayer focuses his research on issues of healthcare policy, HIV/AIDS, infectious disease, and substance dependence. He is an elected member of the Institute of Medicine of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences and has served on its committees dealing with the social impact of AIDS, tuberculosis elimination, vaccine safety, smallpox vaccination, and the Ryan White Care Act. Dr. Bayer has been a consultant to the WHO on ethical issues related to public health surveillance, HIV, and tuberculosis. Merlin Chowkwanyun - Dr. Chowkwanyun centers his research on community health, biostatistical methods, environmental health, healthcare policy, and history and ethics, focusing on regulation, racial inequality, and social movements around health. He is also the PI (co-PI David Rosner) on a recent National Science Foundation Standard Research Grant for ToxicDocs.org, a depository of millions of pages of once-secret documents on industrial poisons. Alwyn Cohall - Dr. Cohall's main areas of research interest include adolescent health, reproductive health, violence, access to healthcare, particularly for young men of color, and health communication/health promotion. He is the director of Project Stay (Services to Assist Youth), a New York State Department of Health-funded program that provides confidential health services to young people affected by or infected with HIV/AIDS. James Colgrove - Dr. Colgrove examines the relationship between individual rights and the collective well-being as well as the social, political, and legal process through which public health policies have been mediated in American history. His general research topics include healthcare policy, history and ethics, and infectious disease. Melissa DuPont-Reyes- Dr. DuPont-Reyes is trained as a psychiatric and social epidemiologist. Dr. DuPont-Reyes is an interdisciplinary public health scholar that centers her research on issues of health equity in population mental health among young and diverse populations. Her research seeks to understand how early prevention of mental illness stigma among adolescent populations may help reduce disparities in mental health care access and utilization later in the life course. Her current projects address three important issues in mental illness stigma research: (1) the development and testing of low-dose, high-reach mental health anti-stigma interventions via school mental health education and mass media (including U.S.-basesd Spanish language media), (2) evaluation of mental illness stigma across intersectional social identities, and (3) advancing theory related to adolescent mental health help-seeking and familial transmission of mental health help-seeking. Jessie Ford- Dr. Jessie Ford is a sociologist whose research explores how expectations around gender and sexuality shape sexual health, violence and pleasure. Dr. Ford's work brings a fresh perspective to sexual health by deploying insights from the sociology of culture and studies of gender inequality. Her most recent project examines how multi-level factors, including structural stigma and gender inequality, impact rates of sexual assault and hazardous drinking among bisexual women. Dr. Ford's work also explores the importance of sexual pleasure—an often overlooked and stigmatized dimension of sexual health and human rights—and advocates for its inclusion in public health policy, program implementation and clinical practice. Julie Franks- Dr. Franks is a technical specialist at ICAP with expertise in HIV prevention, particularly among key populations heavily impacted by HIV. Her research in the United States and sub- Saharan Africa focuses on improving access to effective prevention services for gender and sexual minority groups and sex workers. She is a founding member of ICAP's Harlem Prevention Center, which conducts research on HIV and COVID- 19 prevention. Dr. Franks holds a PhD in history from the State University of New York at Stony Brook. Robert Fullilove - Dr. Fullilove is the Associate Dean for Community and Minority Affairs, Professor of Clinical Sociomedical Sciences and the co-director of the Cities Research Group. He has authored numerous articles in the area of minority health., publishing on topics like community health, HIV/AIDS, substance dependence, and urban health. Since 2010, he has been teaching public health courses in six New York State prisons that are part of the Bard College Prison Initiative (BPI) and serves as the Senior Advisor to BPI's public health program. Daniel Giovenco - Dr. Giovenco is a behavioral scientist whose research uses geographical information systems, field data collection, and survey data to identify social and environmental determinants of tobacco use disparities. His specific areas of interest include the marketing of alternative tobacco products in diverse communities, the public health implications of tobacco harm reduction, and the co-use of marijuana and tobacco. Christian Gloria- Dr. Gloria is an Associate Professor of Sociomedical Sciences at Columbia University Irving Medical Center, a Visiting Scientist of Mental Health for the Philippine Council for Health Research & Development, and a Visiting Professor for several public health institutions across the Republic of the Philippines (viz., Angeles University Foundation, Ateno de Manila University, De La Salle University, Silliman University, University of San Agustin, University of the Assumption, and University of the Philippines Manila). Dr. Gloria's latest research examines the protective and resilience factors that enable people to adapt, grow, and thrive against chronic stress and adversity. Lauren Gooden - Dr. Gooden's main areas of research interest include HIV and HCV testing, prevention and treatment, and access to care, particularly among people who use substances. She is the Director of Columbia's Sociomedical Sciences Miami Research Center located in Miami, FL, which is a remote research team based on the University of Miami medical campus. Diana Hernandez - Dr. Hernandez focuses her work on the social and environmental determinants of health by querying the impacts of policy and place-based interventions on the health and socioeconomic well-being of vulnerable populations. Her community-oriented research examines the intersections between the built environment (housing and neighborhoods), poverty/equity, and health with an emphasis on energy insecurity. Her projects relate to structural interventions in low-income housing (i.e. energy efficiency upgrades, fuel source conversions, smoke-free housing, and capital improvement models in public housing) or otherwise related to alleviating the consequences of poverty on health. Jennifer Hirsch - Dr. Hirsch's research spans five intertwined domains: the anthropology of love, gender, sexuality and migration; sexual, reproductive, and HIV risk practices, social scientific research on sexual assault, and undergraduate well-being, and the intersections between anthropology and public health. Along with Dr. Claude Ann Mellins, Hirsch co-directs the Sexual Health Initiative to Foster Transformation (SHIFT), a study supported by Columbia University that examines sexual health and sexual assault among Columbia and Barnard undergraduates. Kim Hopper - Dr. Hopper is a medical anthropologist who has done ethnographic and historical research on psychiatric care and on homelessness, chiefly in New York CIty. His research interests include the fate of reforms in public mental health, terms and conditions of collaborative research, and prospects for reconciliation between ex-patients and their professional caretakers. For the last 10 years, he has also taught in the Bard Prison Initiative. Kate Lovero - Dr. Lovero's research aims to improve the prevention and treatment of adolescent mental health problems in low-resource settings, focusing particularly on low- and middle-income countries (LMIC). Her work employs multilevel stakeholder enagagement and implementation science methods to generate health care delivery models that address the complex drivers of health inequity. Currently, she collaborates with the Mozambican Ministry of Health to develop adolecent mental health services integrated within the national primary care system. Etienne Meunier - Dr. Meunier is a sociologist who conducts research on the sexual cultures and sexual health of gay male communities. His research on group sexual behavior has shown how public health policies in New York City have pushed gay male public sex venues (such as bathhouses) into clandestinity, creating new spaces and new forms of social-sexual practices that present both opportunities and challenges for sexual-health promotion. Marita K. Murrman - Dr. Murrman teaches required courses in health behavior change theory, community needs/ assets assessments, and advanced intervention design. She is the principal investigator of the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) funded Health and Human Services' Region 2 Public Health Training Center, one of ten regional centers responsible for providing competency-based training to the governmental public health workforce in NY, NJ, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Carrigan Parish - Dr. Parish is a special needs dentist specializing in access to oral health care for medically compromised and underserved individuals, including those who are HIV-positive. She also has a strong research interest in prescription drug abuse in the dental setting and is currently working on a NIDA-funded study assessing dentists' stigma towards patients who use drugs. Margaret Pereyra - Dr. Pereyra is an Associate Research Scientist with research interests in health services, maternal and child health, HIV/AIDS, international health, research methods and applied biostatistics. She is based at the Sociomedical Sciences Miami Research Center in Miami, FL, and has collaborated on studies that have examined strategies to increase HIV testing, reduce HIV transmission, and increase the engagement of PLWHA in HIV primary care. Margaret received her Dr.P.H. from UCLA in 2003 in Community Health Sciences with a minor in Epidemiology. Dr. Pereyra's most recent publications use Women's Interagency HIV Study data to examine the intersection of dental insurance, dental care utilization and the perceived unmet dental needs in women living with HIV. Morgan Philbin - Dr. Philbin is a social and behavioral scientist whose work explores how social-structural factors impact health outcomes for vulnerable populations, particularly sexual minority youth. Her primary project explores how state-level policies impact sexual health and substance use risk for sexual minority youth, and the factors that influence the uptake of these policies. She also leads a funded pilot study that explores how state-level immigration policies influence health outcomes for Latinos and on another study, she examines how HIV-infected youth transition to adult care. Lisa Rosen-Metsch - Dr. Rosen-Metsch is currently the Dean of the School of General Studies. Dr. Metsch's landmark research has helped to shape national policy and intervention programs. Her recent study findings on the value of integrating HIV testing in substance use treatment programs were the basis for the Substance Abuse Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) and the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) to develop an HIV awareness toolkit for substance use treatment providers. Dr. Metsch's current work focuses on developing innovative strategies to increase the uptake of testing, linkage, retention, and re-engagement in care among vulnerable populations. David Rosner - Dr. Rosner focuses on the intersection of public health, social history, and the politics of occupational disease and industrial pollution. He has been actively involved in lawsuits on behalf of cities, states, and communities nationally who are trying to hold the lead industry accountable for past acts that have resulted in tremendous damage to America's children. Cases aimed at removing lead from children's environments, compensating parents, and governmental agencies for the costs of care and abatement of hazards in the home environment have grown out of his academic work. His work on the history of industry and the harms done of industrial toxins has aided in lawsuits on behalf of asbestos workers and silicosis victims as well. Rachel Shelton - Dr. Shelton is a social and behavioral scientist with training in cancer prevention/control and expertise in implementation science, sustainability, health equity, and community-engaged research. She is a principal investigator of a Research Scholar Grant for Health Equity focused on advancing the understanding of the sustainability of lay health advisor programs in under-resourced community settings. She also collaborates on a grant focused on social stressors and resources related to behavioral and epigenetic aging processes. Karolynn Siegel - Dr. Siegel research primarily focuses on examining the adaptive tasks that individuals living with life-threatening or chronic illness confront and the coping strategies they use in an effort to master these challenges. She is also an active researcher in the areas of bereavement and caregiving. Kathleen J. Sikkema - Dr. Sikkema conducts community-based intervention research focused on HIV prevention and mental health treatment in the U.S. and in low and middle-income countries. She is a clinical psychologist who specializes in health and community psychology. Dr. Sikkema has led pioneering scholarship in global mental health, specifically related to traumatic stress, coping, and gender violence. Kavita Sivaramakrishnan - Dr. Sivaramakrishnan specializes in issues around aging and the elderly, global health, public health history and ethics, as well as infectious disease. She works closely with the South Asia Institute, the Institute of Social and Economic Research Policy, and the Public Health Foundation of India in New Delhi. Marni Sommer - Dr. Sommer has worked in global health and development on issues ranging from improving access to essential medicines to humanitarian relief in conflict settings including adolescents participatory research, promoting healthy transitions to adulthood, gender, sexual health, and the implementation of adolescent-focused interventions. Dr. Sommer leads the Gender, Adolescent Transitions, and Environment (GATE) Program. GATE generates research and practical resources focused on improving the integration of menstrual hygiene management and gender supportive sanitation solutions into humanitarian responses. Gina Wingood - Dr. Wingood is a distinguished researcher and academic leader in the health promotion field, with decades of expertise designing and evaluating interventions that reduce health disparities in HIV. he has received international acclaim for her research on social determinants of health and was previously featured in Science as a highly-funded African American NIH grant recipient. Dr. Wingood's Sisters Informing Sisters about Topics in AIDS (SISTA) intervention, as well as five other HIV prevention interventions, have been endorsed by the CDC and implemented widely across the country. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Columbia University Honors School's Pandemic LeadershipMay 19 2022 Major Uptick Reported in Cannabis Vaping for All AdolescentsMay 19 2022 For Wetland Plants, Sea-Level Rise Stamps Out Benefits of Higher CO2May 18 2022 Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers