Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now News Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. <a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/RMVjpalPO74?rel=0&amp;wmode=opaque">Embedded video for Study Quantifies Health Costs of Climate Related Disasters</a> Environmental Health Nov. 02 2011 Study Quantifies Health Costs of Climate Related Disasters Health costs exceeding $14 billion dollars and involving 21,000 emergency room visits, nearly 1,700 deaths, and 9,000 hospitalizations are among the staggering impacts of six climate change-related events in the United States during the last decade, according to a first-of-its-kind study published in November 2011 edition of the journal Health Affairs. Kim Knowlton, DrPH "When extreme weather hits, we hear about the property damage and insurance costs. The healthcare costs never end up on the tab, but that doesn't mean they're not there," said lead author Kim Knowlton, DrPH, assistant clinical professor of Environmental Health Sciences at the Mailman School of Public Health and Senior Scientist for the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC). “Right now, there's a gaping hole in our understanding of the health-related costs of climate change. This report begins the work to fill that void. Only by having a clear sense of health impacts and their costs, can we work to reduce them." The analysis spotlights cases in six specific categories in the U.S. occurring in 2002 through 2009: Florida hurricanes in 2004, North Dakota floods in 2009, California heat wave in 2006 and wild fires in 2003, nationwide ozone air pollution from 2000-02, and West Nile virus outbreaks in Louisiana in 2002 (which were tied to warmer weather and changes in precipitation patterns). The study is the first to develop a uniform method of quantifying the associated health costs for extreme weather and disease events that are expected to be exacerbated by climate change. Researchers found that the six categories of events resulted in an estimated 1,689 premature deaths, 8,992 hospitalizations, 21,113 emergency room visits, and 734,398 outpatient visits, totaling over 760,000 encounters with the health care system. Extreme climate-change related events are projected to increase in severity and frequency as climate change continues to go unchecked. Only 13 U.S. states currently include public health measures in their climate-change adaptation plans. With a better understanding of the economic impacts and health risks - as offered by the study, government agencies and key players can create effective partnerships for climate-health preparedness that aggressively limit and reduce public health damage. “Investments in climate change mitigation at the local, state, and national levels, married with analyses of the climate change health costs to inform this strategic planning, will save billions of dollars in health costs and save lives,” notes Dr. Knowlton. This week Congresswoman Lois Capps (D - CA) proposed the Climate Change Health Protection and Promotion Act. The bill would direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a national strategic action plan to assist health professionals in preparing for and responding to the public health effects of climate change. Related Stories A Public Health Lens on Climate and Cities NYC Report Outlines Risks of Climate Change, Makes Recommendations Related Faculty Jonathan Epstein Adjunct Associate Professor Epidemiology Ka Kahe Tilden-Weger-Bieler Professor Obstetrics & Gynecology and Epidemiology Maya Deyssenroth Assistant Professor Environmental Health Sciences More in Environmental Health For Wetland Plants, Sea-Level Rise Stamps Out Benefits of Higher CO2 Bronx Gets Another Boost Toward a Clean Air Future South Bronx Traffic Congestion Worsens, Raising Health and Safety Concerns Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers