Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Conference & Event Services Conference & Event right arrow down arrow Services right arrow down arrow Conference Planning Event Registration Event Equipment Rental Specialty Lighting Promotional Tabling Weddings Summer Intern Housing Summer Conferences & Camps Catering On-Demand Meeting Rooms Venues right arrow down arrow Tangeman University Center right arrow down arrow Great Hall Rates Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Nippert Stadium West Pavilion right arrow down arrow West Pavilion Event Policies West Pavilion Catering right arrow down arrow Corry Street Catering Menu West Pavilion Rates Campus Recreation Center Outdoor Classrooms Athletic Facilities Other Stratford Heights Resources right arrow down arrow COVID-19 For Students For Faculty & Staff For Non-University Clients Event Policies Use of Facilities Catering Guide West Pavilion Event & Catering Guide FAQ Contact Us Request A Space right arrow down arrow 25 Live Instructions Home » About UC » Conference & Event Services » Resources » Event Policies Set Navigation title in component COVID-19 For Students For Faculty & Staff For Non-University Clients Event Policies Use of Facilities Catering Guide West Pavilion Event & Catering Guide FAQ Event Policies Audiovisual Equipment Cancelling or Editing a Reservation Car Smashing Chalking Decorations Definitions of Event Types Designated Speaking Activities Event Food & Beverage Event Sales & Solicitation Fees MainStreet Cinema Movie Showing Outdoor Signage Receiving Dock Scheduling Your Event Security Severe Weather-Related Policy Sound Systems Vehicles Space Updates TUC: Due to academic use, TUC 415 will not be available for events/meetings for Spring 2022. Definitions of Event Types University Event A University Event* is internally sponsored and coordinated by a University of Cincinnati department, faculty member or recognized student organization, and is planned primarily for members of the University of Cincinnati community. A University Event is generally exempt from room rental if no admission/registration costs are charged to attend, or there is no exchange of fees. Any University Event that requires registration payment and/or admission cost to attend, or has an exchange of fees are subject to room rental rates as designated in the ‘University Rates’ category of the Facility Rental Rates. *Additional charges may be assessed based on your event, security, set-up and venue. Regardless of arranged rental fees, cancellation fees will be incurred per the policy. University Co-Sponsored Event A University Co-Sponsored Event is a program or event that involve two parties: a University of Cincinnati entity (i.e. academic department, administrative unit, or recognized student organization) and an organization (public or private) that is external to the university. A University Co-Sponsored Event requires a contractual arrangement with the university. The partnering UC entity will be required to sign a facility use agreement outlining the terms for use of venues. A University Co-Sponsored Event is subject to room rental rates as designated in the ‘University Co-Sponsored’ category of the Facility Rental Rates. The following criteria must be met for an event to be considered a University Co-Sponsored Event: An individual member of the university department or student organization must be designated as the University Host. The room/venue reservation must be executed by the University Host. The University Host will be the primary contact between the external group and UC Conference & Event Services. The University Host shall attend the event in its entirety to ensure that it is conducted in accordance with university policies and the use of facilities agreement. Financial obligations can be paid by either the outside organization or the University Host. Should the university incur any financial liability associated with a program or event co-sponsored by a university department in partnership with an outside organization, the responsibility for all liability, personal injury, and/or property damage resulting from the program or event, will be the sole responsibility of the external organization as designated in the contractual agreement. Non-UC Event The University’s Use of Facilities Policy requires that external events must have a sponsor from a UC department, student organization, faculty, student or staff to hold an event inside Tangeman University Center, Stratford Heights or a centrally-scheduled classroom. For more information or questions, please call CES. A Non-UC Event is defined as a program or event organized by individuals, groups, businesses, or organizations not included in the organizational structure of the university (e.g., weddings, receptions, charity events, corporate meetings and events, youth camps, conferences, social activities, expositions, etc.) A Non-UC Event requires a contractual arrangement, along with proof of general liability insurance naming the university as an ‘additional primary insured’ as outlined in the contractual agreement with the university. UC Conference & Event Services will be primary contact for the external group, and will work directly with university service providers for event needs. Non-UC Events are subject to the ‘Non-UC Rates’ category of the Facility Rental Rates. Scheduling Your Event Before any event can take place, you must schedule your event with CES. We recommend that you do not advertise or publicly announce your event until you have received confirmation from a CES representative. Indoor and outdoor space is confirmed on a first-come, first-served basis. If you have any questions, contact CES at 513-556-1810 or event.services@uc.edu. Cancelling or Editing a Reservation To cancel or edit your reservation, email campsched@ucmail.uc.edu with the event reservation number and details. Rental and other service cancellation fees may be incurred, based on the proximity to the start date of the event. While 25Live does have a “edit/cancel” feature, we recommend that you contact us directly. Be sure to contact any Campus Partners that you have scheduled a service with to cancel your order, ie. Calssic Fare Catering, UC Public Safety, etc. Event Cancellation Fees right arrow down arrow Reservations must be cancelled in writing by emailing campsched@ucmail.uc.edu All reservations for student organizations, department meetings, and events that have reserved Great Hall (TUC 465), TUC 400 ABC, MainStreet Cinema (TUC 220), or West Pavilion must be cancelled at least 30 days prior to the scheduled usage date to avoid a cancellation fee. There may be additional cancellation charges for catering, security, or other services ordered. Regardless of arranged rental fees, cancellation fees will be incurred per the policy. Failure to Cancel If a single meeting room space is not cancelled by contacting Conference & Event Services in writing, via email to event.services@uc.edu, prior to the scheduled date, university student organizations and departments will be responsible for 100% of the university rental fee. Facility Room Reservations Cancellation Fees University Events cancellation fees based on proximity of cancellation to start of event date, by percentage of University Event room rental fee Period Before Event Start Date % Room Rental Fee 30 business days – 15 business days 50% 14 business days– 3 business days 80% 2 business days or less 100% University Co-Sponsored Events cancellation fees based on proximity of cancellation to event start date, by percentage of University Co-Sponsored Event room rental fee Period Before Event Start Date % Room Rental Fee 30 business days – 15 business days 50% 14 business days– 3 business days 80% 2 business days or less 100% Non-University Events cancellation fees based on proximity of cancellation to start of event date, by percentage of Non-University Event room rental fee Period Before Event Start Date % Room Rental Fee 30 business days – 15 business days 50% 14 business days– 3 business days 80% 2 business days or less 100% Catering Cancellation Fees Catering cancellation fees based on proximity of cancellation to start of event date, by percentage of room rental fee Period Before Event Start Date % Catering Fee 5 or more business days 50% 4-3 business days 80% 2 business days or less 100% Audiovisual (AV) Equipment A variety of audiovisual equipment is available for event rental. If audiovisual requirements are beyond the scope of what is offered, CES can assist in securing an outside audiovisual provider for client’s event. MainStreet Cinema Movie Showing Films can be directly licensed and rented from Swank for exhibition in TUC’s MainStreet Cinema. Contact CES to confirm availability and schedule the MainStreet Cinema. Contact Swank to inquire about permission and any fees related to the film showing. License fees vary based on size of audience and age of film title, so we recommend to budget accordingly. Swank will send you the copy of the licensed film. If you are showing an independent film, you are required to provide documentation from the film director allowing the film to be shown. Movie Copyright and Licensing right arrow down arrow What Are Public Performances? Suppose you invite a few personal friends over for dinner and a movie. You purchase or rent a copy of a movie from the local video store and view the film in your home that night. Have you violated the copyright law by illegally “publicly performing “ the movie? Probably not. But suppose you took the same movie and showed it at a club or bar you happen to manage. In this case, you have infringed the copyright of the movie. Simply put, movies obtained through a video store are not licensed for exhibition. Home video means just that: viewing of a movie at home by family or a close circle of friends. What the Law Says The Federal Copyright Act (Title 17 of the United States Code) governs how copyrighted materials, such as movies, may be used. Neither the rental nor the purchase of a DVD/videocassette carries with it the right to show the tape outside the home. In some instances, no license is required to view a movie, such as inside the home by family or social acquaintances and in certain narrowly defined face-to-face teaching activities. Taverns, restaurants, private clubs, prisons, lodges, factories, summer camps, public libraries, day-care facilities, parks and recreation departments, churches, and non-classroom use at schools and universities, are all examples of situations where a public performance license must be obtained. This legal requirement applies regardless of whether an admission fee is charged, whether the institution or organization is commercial or non-profit, or whether a federal or state agency is involved. Penalties for Copyright Infringement “Willful“ infringement for commercial or financial gain is a federal crime punishable as a misdemeanor, carrying a maximum sentence of up to one year in jail and/or a $100,000.00 fine. Even inadvertent infringers are subject to substantial civil damages, ranging from $500.00 to $20,000.00 for each illegal showing. How to Obtain a Public Performance License Obtaining a public performance license is relatively easy and usually requires no more than a phone call. Fees are determined by such factors as: the number of times a particular movie is going to be shown, how large the audience will be, and so forth. While fees vary, they are generally inexpensive for smaller performances. Most licensing fees are based on a particular performance or set of performances for specified films. CES can assist you in obtaining the proper licensing to show a public performance on campus. Prices for licenses vary depending on how recently the film was released. Please inquire for more details. Why is Hollywood Concerned About Such Performances? The concept of “public performance“ is central to copyright and the issue of protection for “intellectual property”. If a movie producer, author, computer programmer or musician does not retain ownership of his or her “work,” there would be little incentive for them to continue and little chance of recouping the enormous investment in research and development, much less profits for future endeavors. Unauthorized public performances in the U.S. are estimated to rob the movie industry of an estimated $2 million each year. Unfortunately, unauthorized public performances are just the tip of the iceberg. The movie studios lose more than $150 million annually due to pirated videotapes and several hundred million more dollars because of illegal satellite and cable TV receptions. Copyright Infringers are Prosecuted The Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) and its member companies are dedicated to stopping film and video piracy in all its forms, including unauthorized public performances. The motion picture companies will go to court to ensure their copyrights are not violated. Lawsuits, for example, have been filed against cruise ships and bus companies for unauthorized on-board exhibitions. If you are uncertain about your responsibilities under the copyright law, contact the MPAA, firms that handle public performance licenses, or the studios directly. Avoid the possibility of punitive action. Have Questions or Need More Information? Please contact CES at event.services@uc.edu or call 513-558-1810. If you have questions about exhibition laws, you may also contact the Motion Picture Association of America at 1-800-662-6797. Content of this brochure reproduced with permission of the Motion Picture Association of America. Copyright @ 1995 MPAA. Event Sales & Solicitation Approved student organizations and departments are permitted to sell items at their events for the benefit of their group or charity. This information should be included in your event description when creating your event reservation in 25Live. CES will review and notify groups of approval. Commercial sales are not permitted without a vendor license. This includes food and beverage sales. Sales by commercial vendors warrants space rental fees to the organization. A vendor license is not required if their monies are for fundraising purposes only. Examples include: raising funds for your own organization or for a nonprofit cause. Funds may not be raised for personal or commercial enterprise. Signage indicating proceeds are a “donation” going to a fundraising or charitable cause is required at the event. In addition to selling, events that include handing out flyers and conducting surveys are governed by University Rule 10-51-01, Sales and Solicitation. In addition to selling, events that include handing out flyers and conducting surveys are governed by University Rule 10-51-01, Sales and Solicitation. Receiving Dock The Tangeman University Center (TUC) Receiving Dock is the only location to be used for delivery and/or pick-up of merchandise, operational supplies, and equipment for use in TUC. The dock is open Monday-Friday, 6 a.m. - 5 p.m. A fee may be charged for evening and weekend access. If you anticipate a need to use the receiving dock for your event, please select the “Dock” resource when reserving your space on 25Live. Driving instructions can be provided to the person delivering to the TUC Receiving Dock. The general policy follows. Dock access will be provided to individuals involved with event set-up in TUC only, if they are bringing large enough quantities of samples, supplies, or equipment to require use of the dock. All event representatives accessing the building through the TUC Dock MUST: Sign the Dock Visitors Log located in the dock office. Unload supplies, etc., and immediately move your vehicle to an authorized parking spot or to a garage. All approved drivers leaving vehicles at the dock for any duration of time to enter the facility, must leave vehicle keys with dock personnel. Event representatives who do not meet dock usage criteria and all other event attendees must use UC parking facilities (or park off campus) and enter TUC through a public entrance. Dock Equipment Dock moving equipment such as pallet jacks, dollies and carts are used exclusively by TUC staff. The equipment can be used for loading and unloading if available. No dock equipment is permitted to leave the dock area unless accompanied by a TUC staff member or representative. Equipment is not available for weekends and has to be scheduled in advance. Dock Storage There is no long term, large or small freight storage available in the TUC dock. No supplies or boxes can be left at the dock. All forms of event storage must be requested and alternative spaces identified in a 25Live reservation. Decorations All decorations for TUC, Stratford and West Pavilion must be pre-approved by Conference & Event Services. Tables do not come with table linens. Table linens can be requested through catering services. Balloons must have weights or be tied to centerpieces/chairs. Balloons are not permitted in the TUC Atrium due to the high ceilings. Clients may not tape, nail, or thumb-tack any items to the floor, wall, or ceiling. You may not use the fixtures of ceilings to hang or otherwise attach items. Please note that any types of candles, lanterns or open flames are prohibited from all student union facilities. The following is a list of banned decorations: Tape, nails, screws, thumb tacks, glue, adhesive putty Candles or any open flame or Incense Fog and smoke/haze machines Glitter, confetti and sand Severe Weather-Related Policy If the university should close due to inclement weather, all events are cancelled following University Rule 3361: 10-55-01. Room rental fees will be waived if your event is cancelled due to a university closing. Conference & Event Services (CES) will follow the university policy for severe weather, delays and closings, including: Delays TUC will open at the time the university designates (i.e., University opens at 10am, TUC opens at 10am). All services including the receiving dock, retail, and food will open at the designated university time. Events scheduled to begin/end before the designated university opening time will not occur. * Events scheduled to begin before the designated university opening but continue past that time may still occur but are required to end at the original scheduled time. When possible events may be permitted to continue beyond their original scheduled end time at the discretion of the Conference & Event Services (CES) staff.* All Day Closings TUC will not open on days designated by the university as “CLOSED” during inclement weather. All operations, including retail, the receiving dock, and services within TUC will be “CLOSED/CANCELLED”. All events will be “CANCELLED”. * Early Closings TUC will remain open 1 hour past the designated university closing time to serve as a temporary shelter for individuals who are not able to immediately leave campus. TUC’s Atrium on level 3 and the food court on level 2 will be the designated areas individuals may occupy during this time. All retail locations and operations within TUC will close. All scheduled events will conclude at the time the university closes. * When possible, one retail food option will be available in the food court for 1 hour past the designated university closing time, but not to surpass normal hours of operation. Weekends TUC will make all efforts to stay open on weekends, when the university does not make an official closing or delay announcement during inclement weather. If the Building Supervisor believes the weather warrants closing TUC during the weekend they will gain approval before closing. If the decision is made to close TUC, the Building Supervisor will make an announcement over the public address system indicating the new closing time. If the decision is made to close TUC earlier than normal hours of operation, signage will be posted at all entrances. Updates For university updates, please call the University of Cincinnati Status Line at 513‐556‐3333 or visit the UC home page. * This applies to all spaces CES schedules including: TUC, Stratford Heights, West Pavilion, centrally scheduled classrooms and outdoor spaces. Amplification Music can make the event, but there are guidelines. There are established hours during the week when music and other amplification is permitted. This information is found in the Use of Facilities Policy. McMicken Commons and Bearcat Plaza - Tuesdays and Thursdays from 12:30 p.m. – 2 p.m. during the academic term. It is NOT permitted during exam weeks, intercessions, or summer semester. Campus Green or Sigma Sigma Commons - Mondays and Tuesdays from 11a.m. to 4 p.m. Fridays and Saturdays from 11a.m. to 4 p.m. Sundays from noon to 6 p.m. Anything outside of these locations, times, or days will require approval. Requests are made through CES. If your event hosts music or PA system without permission, Public Safety can close it down. Car Smashing Before a vehicle can be brought on campus for philanthropic car smashing, notice must be given to CES at least 45 business days in advance of the event date. Site location must be approved by Facilities Management. Budget for Public Safety presence and Grounds clean up. CES will arrange a logistics meeting for event planning. To prep the vehicle these tasks must be done before the vehicle is brought on campus: Drain all fluids Remove all glass The following safety procedures must be in place at the event: A tarp must hang out at least 5 feet on all sides of the vehicle to catch any debris Safety goggles must be supplied to anyone smashing the vehicle Supply roping around an 8-to-10-foot perimeter around the vehicle. Chalking Chalking is only allowed by registered student organizations, and only on cement sidewalks using water soluble chalk. Refer to the Use of Facilities Policy for further information. If the sidewalks are damaged by using non-water-soluble chalk a fine may be assessed. No spray chalk is permitted. Designated Speaking Activities For guidance about outdoor free speech, review the Use of Facilities Policy. Outdoor Signage Yard signs are not permitted on campus without a dig permit. There are approved areas on campus that allow temporary directional signage. Maps are located in the Use of Facilities Policy. Vehicles Vehicles are permitted on the pavers on TUC Plaza or Bearcat Plaza ONLY with prior permission from CES; this includes any loading or unloading outside TUC. If vehicles are driven on MainStreet pavers without permission they may be subject to a citation by Public Safety. Parking at outdoor spaces is not permitted for non-UC vehicles. Please instruct your vendors to park in garages or at metered spots on city streets after they unload. Vehicles are not permitted to drive on any grassy area because there are underground irrigation systems. Damage to the irrigation system will be billable to the sponsoring organization. If needed, contact CES for guidance. Security UC Public Safety reviews all events, and determines if security personnel is needed. The number of attendees, the type of event and/or whether alcohol is served, will help determine the need for, and the number of, officers present at the event. For events that are serving alcohol, security is primarily engaged to deny entry to uninvited guests, prevent under-age consumption, over-consumption, and alcohol from leaving the event venue. Having security is for the protection of all event attendees, and insures that the event will go on without incident and reduces the university’s liability. The UC Public Safety Officers’ hourly rate is dependent on the seniority of the officer. The specific officers assigned to a detail is dependent upon officer availability. The hourly rate only accumulates during the time the officer is on duty. For example, if an event is scheduled for 4 hours and only runs for 3 hours, the event would be charged for 3 hours; likewise, if the event would run over and go 5 hours, the charge would be for 5 hours. There is an additional public safety coordinator fee of one-third to one hour, depending on the time required to organize the event. A two-hour minimum is required. Uniform or civilian clothing is determined by Public Safety, but can be requested. Event Food & Beverage Client must order food, beverages, and linens through the exclusive caterer for that space. No outside food or beverages may be brought in for meetings and events in these spaces. Exceptions are granted in cases when catering services cannot provide the menu that is requested. Such requests can be made by contacting CES 15 business days prior to the scheduled event date. Failure to follow the Catering Guideline will result in assessment of the University room rental fee. Classic Fare Catering - Exclusive Caterer for TUC, Stratford Heights, and the Campus Rec Center, Resident Communities and SSLC Corry Street Catering - Exclusive Caterer for West Pavilion Student Organization Catering Discount All student organizations included on the list of groups registered with Student Activities and Leadership Development receive a 50% discount on food orders from Classic Fare Catering for events hosted in TUC, Stratford Heights, Steger Student Life Center, the Campus Recreation Center, or an on-campus residence community. Find out what food offerings are available in the Catering Guide. The officer of the student organization must place the order and show their UC or be identified through Campus Link to Classic Fare Catering staff. Alcohol Programs with alcoholic beverages passed, served, or sold, are subject to the below guidelines, taken from the University’s policy on alcohol use on campus. Alternative beverages and food are required. Programs may not begin before 11 a.m., last after 1 a.m., or be longer than five hours. Program may not be sponsored by alcohol brand manufacturer, wholesalers, distributor and retailers. Majority of the attendees must be 21 and older and identification must be checked. Programs with alcoholic beverages passed, served, or sold, in the indoor spaces are permitted through the use of liquor license/permit held by the exclusive caterer. Clients must obtain a liquor permit through Ohio Department of Commerce, Division of Liquor Control for the Programs where alcoholic beverages are passed, served or sold and attendees directly or indirectly pay for the alcoholic beverages. Client is responsible for the conduct of all persons present. Any external caterers serving alcohol must have a valid liqour license to serve. Food Trucks Hosting food trucks on campus requires the organization/department to provide CES with required documentation to safeguard the university, its students, faculty, visitors, etc., for food service events/functions conducted outside of existing food service agreements. Event organizer shall provide evidence of food providers current license(s) with the City of Cincinnati or appropriate municipal authority and with the City of Cincinnati Health Code for food service operators. Event organizer shall provide evidence of vendor’s proof of insurance for general liability of $1,000,000 per occurrence and $1,000,000 in aggregate. Event organizer shall provide evidence of vendor’s insurance for Automobile Liability of $1,000,000 per occurrence and $1,000,000 in aggregate in the case of vehicle use for delivery, service, etc. Event organizer shall provide evidence that the vendors’ insurance names University of Cincinnati as an “additional named insured.” All required evidence shall be provided to CES no later than 10 business days prior to event start date. If not supplied 10 business days prior to the event start date, CES reserves the right to cancel the event reservation. If there are 3 or more food trucks coming onto campus, you will need to pay for a City of Cincinnati Fire Inspector to be present during the event. It is a minimum of 4 hours at $108/hr. Public Safety will also be charging a surcharge of 10%. Cincinnati Fire Dept. Special Event Permit must be filled out as well . Contact CES for the permit. You can learn more about local operation guidelines. Supply all your event plans to CES, who will notify all UC service personnel. Outdoor space has to be reserved if having food trucks on campus, applicable fees may apply. Food at Outdoor Events Food makes the event, but there is significant planning to observe. Outdoor events that are reserved through CES that involve food, must follow these regulations: Food Cooked at Event Anyone who plans to sell raw or uncooked food on UC premises is required to obtain a health permit from: Cincinnati Health Department 3845 William P. Dooley By-Pass Cincinnati, Ohio 45223 513-564-1751 Cost of their permit is about $153.00. The sponsoring organization must ensure vendors have secured the permit before they arrive on campus. Contact UC Fire Prevention for a open flame permit. Cooked Food Brought to Event by Commercial Food Provider Serving cooked food at your outdoor event supplied by a commercial food provider, requires the organization/ department to provide CES the documentation listed below to safeguard the University, its students, faculty, visitors etc. for food service events/functions conducted outside of existing food service agreements. Event organizer shall provide evidence of food providers current license(s) with the City of Cincinnati or appropriate municipal authority and with the City of Cincinnati Health Code for food service operators. Event organizer shall provide evidence of vendor’s proof of insurance for general liability of $1,000,000 per occurrence and $1,000,000 in aggregate. Event organizer shall provide evidence that the vendor’s insurance names University of Cincinnati as an “additional named insured.” There may be an additional charge applied by the insurance company. All required evidence shall be provided to CES no later than 10 business days prior to event start date. If not supplied 10 business days prior to the event start date, CES reserves the right to cancel the event reservation. Outdoor space has to be reserved if having food supplied by a commercial vendor, appplicable fees may apply. Home-Cooked Food Brought to Event Serving home-cooked food at your outdoor event is at the risk of the sponsoring organization/department. Fees University Groups will be assessed a room rental charge for programs which charge admission, conference/class fees, exhibit fees, or any exchange of fees. Programs scheduled outside of standard building hours will be assessed an hourly fee. Building Hours change per academic schedule. UC Co-Sponsored events will be assessed rental charge based on the University Co-Sponsored Rates. Non-University events will be assessed rental charge based on the Non-University Rates. **Rental includes access to built-in AV in rooms, and an equivalent laptop/projector. A staff member will be on hand to assist with starting AV equipment and answer any questions, it does not include on-site technical assistance. TUC Space Rental Fees University Groups will be assessed a room rental charge for programs which charge admission, conference/class fees, exhibit fees, or any exchange of fees. Programs scheduled outside of standard building hours will be assessed an hourly fee. Building Hours change per academic schedule. Programs scheduled outside of standard building hours will be assessed an hourly fee. Building Hours change per academic schedule. Facility Rental Rates - TUC Spaces University Events UC Co-Sponsored Events Non-University Events TUC Great Hall (465) $750 $1000 $1500 TUC Atrium (300) $150 $225 $300 TUC Mainstreet Cinema (220) $250 $325 $500 TUC Catskeller (100) $200 $300 $400 TUC Mick & Mack's (364) $200 $300 $400 TUC 400A $150 $225 $300 TUC 400B $200 $300 $400 TUC 400C $150 $225 $300 TUC 400ABC $375 $500 $750 TUC 400AB $350 $450 $500 TUC 400BC $350 $450 $500 TUC 403-413 $50 $50 $75 TUC 415 $150 $225 $300 TUC 417 $150 $225 $300 TUC 419 $150 $225 $300 TUC 423 $150 $225 $300 TUC 425 $150 $225 $300 TUC 427 $150 $225 $300 Outdoor Spaces Rental Fees University Groups will be assessed a room rental charge for programs which charge admission, conference/class fees, exhibit fees, or any exchange of fees. Programs scheduled outside of standard building hours will be assessed an hourly fee. Building Hours change per academic schedule. Programs scheduled outside of standard building hours may be assessed an hourly fee. Building Hours change per academic schedule. Rental Rates - Outdoor Spaces Spaces University Events UC Co-Sponsored Events Non-University Events McMicken A, B, C, or D (per section) $250 $500 $1500 McMicken Commons (All Sections) $750 $1500 $5000 Campus Green section A or B $250 $750 $1500 Campus Green Section C $250 $500 $1000 Campus Green (All Sections) $750 $1000 $3000 Sigma Sigma Commons $250 $750 $1500 TUC Front Steps $400 $500 $600 TUC Plaza $400 $500 $600 Other Campus Locations Rental Rates University Groups will be assessed a room rental charge for programs which charge admission, conference/class fees, exhibit fees, or any exchange of fees. Programs scheduled outside of standard building hours will be assessed an hourly fee. Building Hours change per academic schedule. Rental Rates - Other Campus Spaces Spaces University Events UC Co-Sponsored Events Non-University Events Classrooms <100 $150 $225 $300 Classrooms >100 $250 $325 $500 Promotional 6-ft Table $125 $260 $260 Stratford Heights $200 $300 $400 West Pavilion at Nippert Stadium Rental Fees University Groups will be assessed a room rental charge for programs which charge admission, conference/class fees, exhibit fees, or any exchange of fees. Programs scheduled outside of standard building hours will be assessed an hourly fee. Building Hours change per academic schedule. Rental Rates - West Pavilion Nippert Stadium Spaces University Events UC Co-Sponsored Events Non-University Events North Lounge $1000 $1500 $2000 South Lounge $500 $1000 $1500 3M Level $500 $1000 $1500 90" LCD TV Screens w/PC laptop $100 $150 $150 65" Rolling Monitor $50 $75 $100 Portable Screen, Data Projector, Laptop $250 $300 $300 Laptop Computer $50 $100 $100 Dance Floor call for quote call for quote call for quote Pipe & Drape call for quote call for quote call for quote Sign Holder $10 $10 $10 Wireless Mic with Lectern $50 $100 $100 Staging 4'x4' $75 $125 $125 Excessive Cleaning Fee based on housekeeping costs based on housekeeping costs based on housekeeping costs Damages based on housekeeping costs based on housekeeping costs based on housekeeping costs Security $88.50 per hour, per police officer/$32 per hour, per security officer $88.50 per hour, per police officer/$32 per hour, per security officer $88.50 per hour, per police officer/$32 per hour, per security officer Service Fee 20% of final invoice 20% of final invoice 20% of final invoice Rental $75 space only events, no ammenties Other Event Fees Event Fees Item Price Conditions MainStreet Cinema - Licensing Fee Amount varies based on film per Swank. All public showings Stratford Heights A/V Technician Fee $65 per day Schedule Building Supervisor with CES TUC Great Hall - Baby Grand Piano Tuning - Starts at $120. Moving the piano will cost extra. Group is responsible for scheduling the tunder. Coordinate this time with CES to ensure Great Hall is available Before / After Building Hours $50 per hour Additional hours fee depends on the scope of the event. Early buiding hours must be requested 10 days prior to the event date. Contact CES. Include a 1/2 hour to your building time for unlock/lock time. TUC - Dedicated A/V Event Technician $25 per hour/technician This fee applies if you request staff dedicated to your event on the day-of. Tent Inspection Fee (State Fire Marshal) $100 Only if tent is over 700 sq. ft fee is always $100, whether you have 1 tent or 20. Industrial Compliance Base Fee $293.25 per tent/canopy Fee is always assessed . Industrial Compliance Electricity Fee $175 per tent/canopy This fee applies if your tent/canopy is wired for electricity. Industrial Compliance Ventilation Fee $175 per tent/canopy This fee applies if your tent/canopy has a mechanical system to provide ventilation (fan/heat/air conditioning). TUC Receiving Dock $100 per hour This fee applies if you request dock access outside of normal business hours M-F or on the weekends. Audiovisual Equipment $100 This fee applies if a request for the equipment is made on THE DAY OF the event, and not in advance. Security TBD based on event You may request a cost estimate for security. Grounds TBD based on event Student organizations are responsible for all fees resulting from outdoor events. All groups are responsible for any clean-up needed. Trash must be bagged and placed in one area for pick-up. Any additional cleaning by Facilities Management or the use of Campus Security, Electric, or Grounds will result in fees being assessed to the group. Failure to Cancel (TUC) Great Hall, 400ABC, Cinema a West Pavilion University room rental fee If a reserved space is not cancelled by contacting Conference & Event Services in writing by email to event.services@uc.edu prior to the scheduled date, univerisity student organizations and departments will be responsible for 100% of the university rental fee. Failure to Show University room rental If a group does not cancel and does not show up for their event, university student organizations and departments will be reponsible for 100% of the university rental fee. Not following Catering Guidelines TUC, Stratford Heights, West Pavilion University room rental fee Failure to follow Catering Guidelines will result in assessment of University room rental fee. Indoor/Outdoor Tabling $260 For external clients and for selling. A table and 1 chair is provided either inside TUC by ExpressMart, or outside on TUC Plaza. Reservation required. Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 event.services@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top