Refine Your Search/Search Our Site About & Contact Subjects & Series Catalogs eBooks News Order Rights Permissions Support the Press Cart: [0] Resources for: Authors Booksellers & Librarians Educators Journalists Readers Honoring Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month American Sutra: A Story of Faith and Freedom in the Second World War Duncan Ryūken Williams Bengali Harlem and the Lost Histories of South Asian America Vivek Bald The Chinese Must Go: Violence, Exclusion, and the Making of the Alien in America Beth Lew-Williams Coconut Colonialism: Workers and the Globalization of Samoa Holger Droessler Lord Cornwallis Is Dead: The Struggle for Democracy in the United States and India Nico Slate Nothing Ever Dies: Vietnam and the Memory of War Viet Thanh Nguyen Recent News Vivek Chibber, author of The Class Matrix: Social Theory after the Cultural Turn, spoke with The Nation about the future of Marxist thought. The End of Astronauts coauthors Donald Goldsmith and Sir Martin Rees made the case to Science Friday’s Ira Flatow that the cost of human space travel largely outweighs its benefits. Alessio Terzi, author of Growth for Good: Reshaping Capitalism to Save Humanity from Climate Catastrophe, argued in Foreign Policy that the energy crisis catalyzed by Russia’s attack on Ukraine does not necessarily undermine the world’s overall green transition—as long as governments remain firm in their commitments to long-term climate targets. Indentured Students author Elizabeth Tandy Shermer spoke with Public Books about the “private pain, public disinvestment” of student debt. Black lives matter. Black voices matter. A statement from HUP » From Our Blog Five Reasons Why You Should Read Thomas Piketty’s A Brief History of Equality In his surprising and powerful new work, A Brief History of Equality, Thomas Piketty reminds us that the grand sweep of history gives us reasons to be optimistic. Over the centuries, he shows, we have been moving toward greater equality. We asked him about his impassioned new book: why he wrote it, how it’s optimistic, and what we need to do to continue making progress on creating an equitable world. … Subscribe to E-News Dumbarton Oaks Medieval Library I Tatti Renaissance Library Loeb Classical Library Murty Classical Library of India About & Contact | Awards | Catalogs | Conference Exhibits | eBooks | Exam Copies | News | Order | Rights | Permissions | Search | Shopping Cart | Subjects & Series Resources for: Authors | Booksellers & Librarians | Educators | Journalists | Readers Harvard University Press offices are located at 79 Garden Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 USA & 8 Coldbath Square, London EC1R 5HL UK © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | HUP Privacy Policy • HU Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures A Message from HUP about COVID-19 (April 2020)