Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Licensing Licensing right arrow down arrow I'm On Campus right arrow down arrow Internal Requests Sponsorships Fundraising Internal Consumption Policy NIL Requests I'm Off Campus right arrow down arrow University Sponsorship Policy Crafter's Program Licensees right arrow down arrow Code of Conduct Artwork Do's and Don'ts Policies FAQs Find Bearcats Gear right arrow down arrow Look for the Label Home » About UC » Licensing » I'm On Campus » Internal Consumption Policy Set Navigation title in component Internal Requests Sponsorships Fundraising Internal Consumption Policy NIL Requests Internal Consumption Policy Listed below are key takeaways from the University's Internal Consumption Policy. If you would like to download the policy, click the link below. Internal Consumption Policy Background The University of Cincinnati owns and controls its name(s) and other marks, logos, insignias, seal, designs and symbols that have become associated with the institution. UC’s Board of Trustees has established a licensing program to protect the name and identifying marks of the university and to prohibit the unauthorized use of university marks on commercial or other products. In accordance with Board Rule 10-01-06, the Director of Licensing is authorized to sign contracts relating to the licensing, sale, assignment, transfer or other disposition of the university’s trademarks. In addition, to comply with and ensure protection under federal, state, and international trademark laws, the University of Cincinnati is required to monitor and control all uses of its trademarks. Unauthorized use of UC trademarks is subject to civil and criminal penalties. The university reserves the right to take appropriate action when confronted with unauthorized use of its trademarks. Such actions may include confiscation of the goods, financial penalties, and legal action. The university charges a royalty fee for the use of its marks except for internal consumption items, and limited other exceptions considered on a case-by-case basis. This policy describes the use of the university marks for internal consumption. Definitions Internal Consumption – An internal consumption item is an item that happens to bear a UC trademark but that is otherwise a work-place necessity that is used by an employee or organizational unit of the university in the ordinary course of business. Examples include pens, notebooks, and uniforms required to be worn by employees. In the discretion of the director of licensing, internal consumption items can be exempted from the royalty requirement. Promotional items – These are items bearing a UC trademark purchased to promote a specific university event, such as tee -shirts given to employees or students at a specific function. If the design used on the promotional item is date and event specific, then, in the discretion of the director of licensing, it may be exempted from the royalty requirement. Standard Royalty Rate – The university’s standard royalty rate for non-apparel products is 15%, and the standard royalty rate for apparel products is 18%, both are based on the wholesale cost of an item bearing the university’s mark. Premium Promotional Item – A premium promotional item is a product produced for distribution that connects another company or group with the university either by reference or through use of one of the university’s marks. Premium Promotional Items carry an elevated royalty rate currently set at 20% of the wholesale cost of the item bearing the university mark. Policy All uses of UC’s trademarks on products require prior approval from the Office of Trademarks & Licensing, even if the proposed uses do not involve the sale of a product; e.g., promotional items for conferences or meetings, items for fundraisers, items for giveaways, gifts, etc. Items produced for an employee or organizational unit for internal consumption may be exempt from royalties. Promotional items purchased using university funds must use a design that is date or event specific and follow appropriate branding guidelines to be exempt from royalties. All requests for the use of university marks must be submitted to the Office of Trademarks & Licensing for review and approval prior to production. UC organizational units, groups, and registered student organizations may not assign rights or otherwise grant permission to any other entity for use of UC’s trademarks for any purpose without prior review and approval by UC’s Office of Trademarks & Licensing. The C-Paw and spirit marks are approved for use only by the Athletics Department and on a case-by-case basis for athletics-related events. Official student organizations and clubs recognized by the Office of Student Activities and Leadership Development also have access to the spirit marks, subject to the review and approval by the Office of Trademarks & Licensing. All products bearing UC’s trademarks must be produced from companies licensed by the University of Cincinnati through our agent, the Collegiate Licensing Company (CLC). A complete list is available at the Office of Trademarks & Licensing website. UC trademarks may not be used in conjunction with the name or trademark(s) of any other entity without the prior written permission of that entity and the Office of Trademarks & Licensing. Approval of any such dual use of UC’s trademarks will be limited to instances of compelling institutional priority for allowing such a use. UC trademarks may not be used in any manner that suggests or implies University of Cincinnati’s endorsement of other organizations, companies, products, services, political parties or views, or religious organizations and beliefs. UC’s trademarks may not be used in any way that discriminates or implies discrimination against any persons or groups based on age, ancestry, belief, color, creed, disability, national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or veteran status, or in any other way that would be a violation of UC’s anti-discrimination policies or practices. No one other than the University of Cincinnati may claim copyright or trademark rights or seek to register any design that uses University of Cincinnati trademarks. All uses of UC trademarks on products will incorporate the appropriate trademark designation symbols (i.e., ® or TM). The University of Cincinnati will not approve the use of UC trademarks in connection with products or designs that present an unacceptable risk of liability or could be harmful to the mission or image of the institution. A list of examples can be found at the Office of Trademarks & Licensing website. Procedure Complete the UC Licensing Internal Request Form available at the Office of Trademarks & Licensing website. Submit completed form along with artwork to the Director of Trademarks & Licensing. Director of Trademarks & Licensing reviews request and returns a signed copy of the request form indicating: (a) request is approved, (b) request is approved with changes along with a description of required changes, or (c) request is denied along with the reason for denial. For approved requests, the organizational unit can place an order with an approved vendor. Note: Approval to use a UC trademark does not constitute approval to use the trademark again, or in connection with any other item, or to change the design in any way, without seeking additional approval. University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 licensing@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top