Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) Show/Hide About Compliance and Oversight Action Plans Initiatives Resources Incident Reporting Events Student Support Chaplains and Religious Life The Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life works collaboratively with many student organizations, spanning the breadth of Brown’s religious diversity and involving more than 40% of the student population. The office also cares for and responds to the broad pastoral needs of Brown’s faculty, staff and students. Counseling and Psychological Services All clinicians in Counseling and Psychological Services are required to have experience in working with students from diverse backgrounds. The office provides ongoing programming for students on topics such as ethnic and racial identity and , hate crimes. Global Brown Center for International Students Global Brown supports the international student community at Brown thought orientations, programming, and resources that celebrate and recognize the diversity of international identities. Office of the Dean of the College The Office of the Dean of the College connects students with Deans who serve as resources in academics, advising, and a broad range of issues students may face while at Brown. Student Accessibility Services (SEAS) SEAS coordinates services and accommodations for students, faculty and staff with physical, psychological, sensory, and learning disabilities. SEAS is also available for consultation with Brown community members who are questioning whether they may have a disability, have questions about working with someone who has a disability, or have a temporary condition that may require accommodations or services. University Health Services Working with a wide range of individual and student organizations, University Health Services is dedicated to the promotion of healthy lifestyles. Programs range from sexual health to relaxation techniques, from eating disorders to domestic abuse. Resources Training Resources Request Consultation/Training Resources for Anti-Racism Resources for Virtual Environments Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Contact Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Brown University Box 1988 Horace Mann, Third Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2216 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat