Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of English Undergraduate Graduate People Internships News/Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact People Staff Faculty General Inquiries Take Action Apply Now Alumni and Friends Course Offerings Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of English People Darryl Domingo Darryl Domingo Associate Professor, Coordinator of Literary and Cultural Studies Concentration Phone 901.678.3458 Email dphnrhnd@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2226 Office Patterson Hall 407 Office Hours Call for Hours Education Ph.D., University of Toronto, 2009 Academic Summary Dr. Darryl P. Domingo joined the Department of English at the University of Memphis in August 2011, after having earned his Ph.D. from the University of Toronto. His research interests are varied in subject and scope, but his primary area of expertise is in late seventeenth- and eighteenth-century conceptions of amusement and their implication in contemporary attitudes towards language, rhetoric, and wit. Taking seriously the complex reciprocal relationship between literature and culture, his work analyzes the often subtle ways in which cultural phenomena both represent and are represented by the discursive devices of literary texts. Rather than seeking simply to identify and elucidate topical allusions or oblique references to the relative content of eighteenth-century culture, Dr. Domingo aims to reveal the degree to which the idiosyncratic format of eighteenth-century texts reproduces the modes of presentation peculiar to, say, the printing house, the shop-window display, or the "Reigning Diversions of the Town." Dr. Domingo has held numerous awards and fellowships, including a Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada doctoral fellowship, a short-term fellowship at the Center for Seventeenth- and Eighteenth-Century Studies at U.C.L.A., and the American Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies Fellowship for research in residence at the Newberry Library, Chicago, and the Marcus Orr Center for the Humanities Freeburg Fellowship at the University of Memphis. His research has appeared in such journals as Eighteenth-Century Studies, Eighteenth-Century Fiction, Journal for Early Modern Cultural Studies, and The Review of English Studies and in books published by Cambidge University Press and M.L.A. Dr. Domingo's first book, The Rhetoric of Diversion in English Literature and Culture, 1690-1760, was published by Cambridge University Press in March 2016 (paperback reissue in 2018). He is currently doing research for his next book project, provisionally titled "Shop-Rhetorick": Advertising and the Arts of Persuasion in Eighteenth-Century Britain. Select Publications Book The Rhetoric of Diversion in English Literature and Culture, 1690-1760 (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2016). Articles and Book Chapters “Periodicals, News and Journalism,” Daniel Defoe in Context, eds. Albert Rivero and George Justice (forthcoming from Cambridge University Press). “The Satiric Page,” Options for Teaching Modern British and American Satire, eds. Evan Davis and Nicholas D. Nace (New York: Modern Language Association of America, 2019), 89-99. “The Character of a People: Sports and Pastimes in Eighteenth-Century Britain,” Review Essay, Eighteenth-Century Life 42.3 (2018): 81-88. "Theatre and Drama," Samuel Richardson in Context, eds. Peter Sabor and Betty Schellenberg (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2017), 205-12. "Richardson's Unfamiliar Quotations: Clarissa and Early Eighteenth-Century Comedy," The Review of English Studies 66.277 (2015): 936-53. "'Well Observed by the Poet': Elias Brand and Richardson's British Ancients," Eighteenth-Century Fiction 24.4 (2012): 597-622. "Unbending the Mind: or, Commercialized Leisure and the Rhetoric of Eighteenth-Century Diversion," Eighteenth-Century Studies 45.2 (2012): 207-36. "William Oldys," Dictionary of Literary Biography Volume 356: Eighteenth-Century British Literary Scholars and Critics, ed. Frans De Bruyn (Detroit: Gale, 2010), 222-38. "'The Natural Propensity of Imitation': or, Pantomimic Poetics and the Rhetoric of Augustan Wit," Journal for Early Modern Cultural Studies 9.2 (2009): 51-95. "Scriblerus Takes a London Walk: or, The Pedantic Perambulations of Gay's Trivia," University of Toronto Quarterly 75.4 (2005): 943-56. "'The Various Modes of Nature's Least Admirable Workes': or, The Collected Dunciad," Lumen 23 (2004): 91-114. Editions Henry Fielding, The Tragedy of Tragedies: or, The Life and Death of Tom Thumb the Great (1731), contributing ed. Darryl P. Domingo (Peterborough: Broadview Press, 2013). 158pp. "Appendix: Critical Texts," ed. Darryl P. Domingo, The Broadview Anthology of Restoration and Eighteenth-Century Comedy, gen. ed. Brian Corman (Peterborough: Broadview Press, 2013): 525-84 (50,000 words). Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/2/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.