Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Majors and Programs Composition Commercial Music Conducting Jazz Studies Music Business Music Education Music History Pedagogy Performance BrassKeyboardPercussionStringsVocal Arts Woodwinds Recording Technology Vocology Certificate Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music Academics Music History Enrich your contributions as a modern-day musician by exploring the history and evolution of music. Steep yourself in the music of the past and present, with an emphasis on musical styles, genres, composers and individual musical works within historical, philosophical and social contexts. By majoring in Music History (undergraduate) or Musicology (graduate) you will increase your understanding of various music through scholarly study and practical application. Our NASM-accredited programs can lead to careers as music historians, educators, researchers, museum professionals and forensic musicologists and to a host of positions in the music industry. Our historical performance ensemble, Collegium Musicum, connects students with period instruments and repertoire in ways that respect performance practices of the time the pieces were written. At the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music, you will enjoy state-of-the-art music facilities and work with a large and diverse community of faculty, students and industry professionals. You’ll have the opportunity to attend numerous concerts, clinics, and master classes given by students, faculty, and visiting artists. Additionally, the University’s location allows many opportunities to plug into a history-rich and vibrant music city. Admission + Audition Requirements Interested students should complete the University of Memphis application and apply to the School of Music. Applicants submit a portfolio of work, which is used to determine admission into School of Music programs and the awarding of graduate assistantships. All undergraduate students who want to major or minor in music or who seek a music scholarship must audition. What degrees do we offer? Bachelor of Music in Music History Gain a broad cultural perspective of music with a particular focus on form, practice and style. You’ll study musical style, technique and theory throughout history and examine the evolving impact of music on society. Our Music History program centers on such areas as the place of music in different cultural contexts, the social condition of musicians, the evolution of performing styles, and the different ways music can project meaning and reflect identity. Music History provides excellent preparation not only for graduate study in musicology, but also for a considerable range of professional training programs including journalism, information sciences, arts administration, and teaching. Scholarships are available. Outcomes: Music History students will develop musical skills on a selected instrument or voice Music History students will acquire the methods and opportunities of music research Music History students will gain an understanding of the music of various periods, genres, and cultures Music History students will learn a foreign language Music History students produce a piece of original music research for the Music History Senior Project Map out your college experience! View Bachelor of Music in Musicology for required courses for degree completion. APPLY NOW > Master of Music in Musicology Advance your understanding of and appreciation for the development of music through music research, music theory and stylistic analysis. Encompassing much more than music history, the Musicology Program approaches music as a social activity shaped by aesthetic movements and intellectual theories – in essence, the humanistic study of music in culture. Outcomes: Musicology students will gain a graduate-level understanding of the principles and methods of music research and music theory Musicology students will acquire knowledge of a variety of areas in historical musicology and ethnomusicology Musicology students will develop proficiency in the performing area or another musical subject outside musicology Musicology students will be proficient in at least one foreign language Musicology students produce a substantial piece of music scholarship in a thesis, a lecture recital, or a master’s portfolio. Map out your master's experience! View the Master of Music in Musicology sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Doctor of Philosophy in Musicology Achieve a high level of knowledge in music history and the methodologies of musicology through our Ph.D. in Musicology. With an emphasis on research and broad exposure to numerous approaches to analyzing music, as well as experience teaching in the classroom, our program prepares you for a variety of fields in or related to music history. The curriculum for this degree offers flexibility and is therefore also of value to those wishing to pursue executive careers in administration and the music industry, as well as to performers/scholars, conductors, and pedagogues. Outcomes: Musicology students will develop an aptitude for high-level research and original scholarship Musicology students will experience teaching music history in the classroom Musicology students will produce a piece of sustained original scholarship in a dissertation on a musicological topic. Map out your doctoral experience! View the Doctor of Philosophy in Musicology sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Student + Alumni Success Rachel Scott (PhD '21), Associate Dean. Illinois State University, Bloomington, IL Joel Roberts (PhD '20) University Libraries Assistant Professor, University of Memphis Jeremy Grall (PhD '17), Associate Professor Of Music, Department of Music Chair, Birmingham-Southern College, Birmingham, AL Sarah Dietsche (PhD '16), Social Media/Events Area Coordinator at Mike Curb Institute for Music, Rhodes College, Memphis, TN Robert Apple (PhD In progress) 2018 Fulbright Global Scholar. Faculty click here > Ensembles click here > Scholarships click here > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/24/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.