Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Master of Public Health Home About Mission & Values People Competencies MPH Student Handbook (PDF) The Curriculum The Internship The Thesis Dual Degrees Health Equity Scholars Site Navigation Home About Mission & Values People Competencies MPH Student Handbook (PDF) The Curriculum Interdisciplinary Concentration Addictions Concentration Epidemiology Concentration Global Health Concentration Health Behavior Concentration Health Services Concentration Maternal and Child Health Concentration Mindfulness Concentration The Internship The Thesis Dual Degrees MPH/MPA Five-Year Undergraduate/MPH UG/MPH Program Requirements Sample class schedule for UG/MPH Five-Year MD/MPH Brown-Tougaloo Partnership Health Equity Scholars Competencies MPH Competencies The Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH) recently revised the criteria for MPH Programs. Starting with the class entering in Fall 2018, the program will ensure that students are grounded in the Public Health Foundational Knowledge and the Public Health Foundational Competencies defined by CEPH. The CEPH learning objectives and competencies listed below will be covered in the core MPH curriculum. MPH Foundational Public Health Knowledge Learning Objectives 1. Explain public health history, philosophy and values 2. Identify the core functions of public health and the 10 Essential Services* 3. Explain the role of quantitative and qualitative methods and sciences in describing and assessing a population’s health 4. List major causes and trends of morbidity and mortality in the US or other community relevant to the school or program 5. Discuss the science of primary, secondary and tertiary prevention in population health, including health promotion, screening, etc. 6. Explain the critical importance of evidence in advancing public health knowledge 7. Explain effects of environmental factors on a population’s health 8. Explain biological and genetic factors that affect a population’s health 9. Explain behavioral and psychological factors that affect a population’s health 10. Explain the social, political and economic determinants of health and how they contribute to population health and health inequities 11. Explain how globalization affects global burdens of disease 12. Explain an ecological perspective on the connections among human health, animal health and ecosystem health (eg, One Health) MPH Competencies Evidence-based Approaches to Public Health 1. Apply epidemiological methods to the breadth of settings and situations in public health practice 2. Select quantitative and qualitative data collection methods appropriate for a given public health context 3. Analyze quantitative and qualitative data using biostatistics, informatics, computer-based programming and software, as appropriate 4. Interpret results of data analysis for public health research, policy or practice Public Health & Health Care Systems 5. Compare the organization, structure and function of health care, public health and regulatory systems across national and international settings 6. Discuss the means by which structural bias, social inequities and racism undermine health and create challenges to achieving health equity at organizational, community and societal levels Planning and Management to Promote Health 7. Assess population needs, assets and capacities that affect communities’ health 8. Apply awareness of cultural values and practices to the design or implementation of public health policies or programs 9. Design a population-based policy, program, project or intervention 10. Explain basic principles and tools of budget and resource management 11. Select methods to evaluate public health programs Policy in Public Health 12. Discuss multiple dimensions of the policy-making process, including the roles of ethics and evidence 13. Propose strategies to identify stakeholders and build coalitions and partnerships for influencing public health outcomes 14. Advocate for political, social or economic policies and programs that will improve health in diverse populations 15. Evaluate policies for their impact on public health and health equity Leadership 16. Apply principles of leadership, governance and management, which include creating a vision, empowering others, fostering collaboration and guiding decision making 17. Apply negotiation and mediation skills to address organizational or community challenges Communication 18. Select communication strategies for different audiences and sectors 19. Communicate audience-appropriate public health content, both in writing and through oral presentation 20. Describe the importance of cultural competence in communicating public health content Interprofessional Practice 21. Perform effectively on interprofessional teams Systems Thinking 22. Apply systems thinking tools to a public health issue Students who matriculated prior to Fall 2018 should click here for a list of the competencies taught in the MPH core curriculum. About Mission & Values People Competencies MPH Student Handbook (PDF) Admissions Admissions Calendar Request Information Tuition & Funding Career Outcomes Career Advising Master of Public Health (MPH) Master of Public Health (MPH) Brown University 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top