Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Co-op at UC Co-op at UC right arrow down arrow The Global Birthplace of Co-op At the University of Cincinnati, we believe that learning is doing and doing is learning. It’s in our DNA. We invented cooperative education more than 100 years ago, and we continue to innovate all aspects of experience-based learning, including internships, service learning, virtual co-ops, community projects and industry partnerships. Today, Cincinnati’s classroom extends to nearly every corner of the globe, from co-ops at Fortune 500 companies to trailblazing experiences in places like China, Morocco, and South America. UC is ranked fourth in the nation for co-op and internships (U.S. News Best Colleges 2022), and students earn a collective $58 million annually working for thousands of employers including GE Aviation, Disney, Toyota, Kroger, Procter & Gamble and many more. With a college co-op, you can jump-start your career, help fund your education, and graduate with a degree in one hand and a career plan in the other with the skills and competencies to launch a lifetime of careers. Information for students Information for employers $58 million collectively earned by UC co-op students What is co-op? As the founder of cooperative education, the University of Cincinnati is uniquely qualified to address the needs of a transforming workforce. Today’s co-op comes in many forms as organizations reconsider how jobs are designed and adapt for future growth. Traditional or full-time co-op Students alternate academic semesters with semesters spent working full-time in their chosen field. 35+ hours per week 15-18 weeks (semester) Required for UC’s College of Engineering and Applied Science; College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning; and School of Information Technology On site, remote or on campus Part-time co-op This flexible option allows students to work part-time while continuing to attend classes. 5-20 hours per week 15-17 weeks (semester) Related to a student’s major or exploratory studies On site, remote or on campus Learn more about the many ways to get experience as a UC student. Project-based co-op Students gain experience through project or “gig” work. Typically 5-40 hours for a single project Related to a student’s major or exploratory studies Remote Request Student Co-op Info Begin your Bearcats Journey today Loading... Why Co-op? The University of Cincinnati is ranked fourth in the nation for co-op and internships (U.S. News Best Colleges 2022) UC students earn $58 million collectively in annual co-op earnings (2021) Global and nationwide opportunities to work with thousands of companies from startups to Fortune 500s, community non-profits and beyond How Do I Find a Co-op? As with any job search, students seeking co-op positions must research opportunities, apply and interview in a competitive process. Our co-op advisers and Career Coaches in the Bearcat Promise Career Studio are here to help. We can work with you to write your first resume or cover letter, craft an online professional profile, introduce yourself at networking events or career fairs, search for jobs, prepare for an interview or negotiate your next job offer. UC also provides access to Handshake, a powerful job search tool, to all UC students and recent alumni. Hiring a UC co-op student? As the founder of cooperative education, the University of Cincinnati is uniquely qualified to address the needs of a transforming workforce. Today’s co-op comes in many forms as organizations reconsider how jobs are designed and adapt for future growth. Work with us to recruit your next co-op or intern, upskill your workforce or collaborate on your next venture. Thousands of organizations work with us, you should, too! Diverse talent pool Access the latest talent pool of student co-ops or interns, before they enter the job market. Test drive talent Low-risk opportunity to recruit and evaluate student talent as potential hires. Affordable workforce Cost-effective relief for short-term peaks in workload or for special projects. Connect with the co-op office UC Co-op News 4 benefits of hiring a co-op student While cooperative education has a range of proven benefits for college students, hiring a co-op student also provides advantages for employers and businesses. Co-op launched UC alumnus’ Intel career May 3, 2022 Intel vice president James Breisch got his start in computer engineering through UC's top-ranked co-op program. UC makes connections to key players in the theme park industry May 4, 2022 For Andrew Holcroft Disney World had always been a place for family memories and entertainment as a youth. But he entered high school he seriously began to think about fields of study, careers and if he could do more than just visit theme parks. Maybe he could be part of a team creating or enhancing a theme park. As a a fourth-year industrial design student at the University of Cincinnati he's exploring that option. Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top