COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Engineering Technology - Facilities Management, Major MajorEngineering Technology - Facilities Management All Programs College of Engineering Engineering Technology A Bachelor of Science in engineering technology (BSET)—facilities management—from Wichita State combines engineering technology fundamentals with knowledge and specialized skills for successful careers in facilities management. Students get hands-on experience through industry- and community-sponsored projects, which they present to industry at WSU’s engineering open house. Learn how engineering technology - facilities management is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Engineering, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum Curriculum covers a variety of subjects, from HR, real estate and financial management to applied statistics, engineering project management and more. The program culminates in a two-course capstone design experience where students apply the knowledge gained from the engineering technology curriculum to a hands-on project sponsored by an industry or community partner. View the curriculum Careers WSU’s vast industry connections—and experience-based learning for every major—gives engineering technology management students the chance to grow their professional network, build a resume and earn a paycheck, all while still in school, leading to dream careers in diverse fields. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Industrial Engineering Engineering Technology - Civil Engineering Technology Engineering Technology - Engineering Technology Management Engineering Technology - Mechatronics Technology 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©