Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Computing Main navigation About Advisory Board Awards Community Contact Facts and Rankings Leadership Techlanta Faculty Position Opportunities College Administration Website Feedback Form Future Students Degree Programs Graduate Degrees Minors Threads Undergraduate Degrees Online Education Tuition and Financial Aid Funding Sources Current Students Academic Resources Advising Program Advising Undergraduate Advising Career Fair International Study Tutoring Assistance Career Services Entrepreneurship Mentoring Program Office of Outreach, Enrollment and Community FASET 2022 Schools Division of Computing Instruction School of Computational Science and Engineering School of Computer Science School of Cybersecurity and Privacy School of Interactive Computing News & Events News Upcoming Events Calendar Press Contacts The Compiler People Directory Faculty Staff PhD Students Alumni Research Facilities Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Research Areas Research Centers About Research Centers Constellations Center for Equity in Computing Undergrad Research Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Corporate Recruiting Support the College Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home News Rising Stars: Georgia Tech Cyber Students Recognized as RSA Scholars Wednesday, May 11, 2022 John Popham School of Cybersecurity and Privacy Two Ph.D. students studying in the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy (SCP) will join students from over 30 universities and institutions at the RSA Conference where they will participate in the Security Scholars program. Vagisha Srivastava and Yibin Yang will be among 80 cybersecurity students attending the conference and will have access to a wide range of perks offered to all participants. Throughout the second week of June students will have the opportunity to participate in team-building exercises, network with over 300 companies at the conference expo, attend an invitation only dinner with cybersecurity experts, and more. Srivastava is a student in the School of Public Policy (SPP) where her research focuses on the policy side of cybersecurity. She is advised by SCP and SPP Professor Milton Mueller, who nominated her for the program. “Vagisha is a cybersecurity-oriented policy student who is very bright,” said Mueller. “She is working on issues related to data governance by platforms and sovereignty and policy issues related to the digitization of money. She has also done studies of vulnerability disclosure programs in India.” Yang, Georgia Tech’s second RSA Scholar, is studying cryptography under his advisor, SCP Associate Professor and Senior Associate Chair Vladimir Kolesnikov. Yang studies zero-knowledge proofs and practical secure multi-party computations. “Yibin has deep expertise in zero-knowledge systems,” Kolesnikov said. “I know he will greatly contribute and learn from the RSA Scholar program.” Learn more about the RSA Scholar program on their website. The RSA 2022 Conference will take place in San Francisco from June 6-9. Recent Stories Quiz Bowl Team Wins Nationals Tuesday, May 24, 2022 Faculty Receives New GPUs for Fluid Dynamics and… Thursday, May 19, 2022 Rising Stars: Georgia Tech Cyber Students Recognized… Wednesday, May 11, 2022 Tweets by gtcomputing Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources GT Footer menu 0 Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum GT Footer menu 1 Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research College of Computing Resources Menu College of Computing Resources Intranet GT Footer menu 2 Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Co-ops & Internships Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid News Feed Quiz Bowl Team Wins Nationals Every year, Georgia Tech’s academic quiz bowl team competes in two… Faculty Receives New GPUs for Fluid Dynamics and Machine Learning Research Scientific computing and simulation require lots of power. This means… Rising Stars: Georgia Tech Cyber Students Recognized as RSA Scholars Two Ph.D. students studying in the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy…