Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission Connect Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming And Current Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers Everything You Need to Know About the SMU Office of Undergraduate Admission and Coronavirus (COVID-19) Please use this page and also our FAQ page as a resource. For university-wide updates, visit blog.smu.edu/coronavirus-covid-19/. Daily Visits All visits to campus are currently suspended until June 8. We are currently working virtually and are available for you. You can connect with us in the following ways: Schedule a virtual 1:1 meeting with your admission counselor. At the top of your SMU Admission Counselor’s page, you will find a link to schedule the meeting. Call 1-800-323-0672 (toll-free) during normal business hours to speak with a member of our team. Take virtual tour of our campus at smu.edu/admission. For the latest updates, follow @SMUAdmission on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. If you are not receiving emails from us, please complete this short form to ensure you’re in our system. Spring 2020 Admitted Student Receptions As of March 13, 2020, SMU has suspended all non-essential University-sponsored or sanctioned domestic travel. Unfortunately, we have cancelled the upcoming receptions: March 17 – Bay Area Admitted Student Reception March 18 - Orange County Admitted Student Reception March 19 - Los Angeles Admitted Student Reception March 25 - Desoto Admitted Student Reception March 28 – Atlanta Admitted Student Reception March 31 - Black Alumni Admitted Student Reception April 1 - McKinney Admitted Student Reception April 2 – St. Louis Admitted Student Reception April 4 - Boston Admitted Student Reception April 5 – Tri-State Admitted Student Reception April 5 – Chicago Admitted Student Reception April 6 – D.C. Admitted Student Reception April 6 - Austin Admitted Student Reception April 7 – North Houston Admitted Student Reception April 7 – San Antonio Admitted Student Reception April 8 – Houston Admitted Student Reception Spring 2020 On-Campus Admitted Student Events SMU has postponed all campus events, including: Destination SMU - March 23, March 30, April 20 Admitted Student Days - April 3, April 13, April 17, April 24 Multicultural Fly-In - March 22-23 Spring 2020 Transfer Application and Admission The priority deadlines for submitting your transfer application are June 1 for a Summer 2020 entry and the priority scholarship deadline is May 1 for a Fall 2020 entry, with a final deadline of August 1. If you have difficulty submitting the required materials by the published deadline, please contact your SMU admission counselor. We will be as flexible as possible regarding our deadlines, and we will work with you to help you complete your application. It is important to know that transfer admission decisions are released on a rolling basis (this began in early March), and will continue until the transfer class is full. Please don't hesitate to reach out; we are here to help. College Fairs All NACAC college fairs have been cancelled. Many other fairs throughout the U.S. have been cancelled as well. If you have signed up for a fair, please check with the organizers of the fair directly. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search