Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Student Services Housing Housing Deciding where to live as an undergraduate or Postbac Premed student is an important decision, one to which serious consideration should be given. New York's many and diverse neighborhoods combined with an extensive public transportation system offer a variety of housing options that are convenient to the Columbia campus. Students reside in many different housing situations. A number of students stay in University-owned housing, many live at home, and some secure other non-University housing in the New York area. Related Content Housing Sign-Up Guide to Living Resident Advisors Columbia Residential Columbia Housing Undergraduate and Postbac Premed students are housed in facilities operated by Columbia Residential. Since few studio apartments are available, GS students are usually accommodated in apartments or dormitory-style suites shared by other Columbia students; typically each student has his or her own bedroom while sharing kitchen and bath facilities. Housing Availability & Eligibility Undergraduate and Postbac Premed students are not guaranteed University Housing. The School is allotted a limited number of spaces by Columbia Residential each semester for new assignments. Student demand for housing regularly exceeds the allotment and both new and continuing students may apply for University Housing. University Housing is available to students, couples, and students with dependent children on a limited basis and priority is given to those students moving from great distances. Students who live within 50 miles of campus will most likely be placed on the waiting list. Only students who are enrolled full time at GS (12 or more points per semester) may apply for University Housing. Postbac Premed students enrolled for less than 12 points are also eligible for University Housing if they are registered for at least 9 points and are simultaneously fulfilling their clinical volunteer work requirement of at least 3 hours per week and 42 hours per semester. Housing Application Timeline Fall Semester Fall 2022 Application Opens February 1 Fall Semester School Allocation Approvals Begin for Fall Housing March 1 Fall Semester Fall Housing Selection Begins for Approved Students April 15 Fall Semester School Allocation Approvals end for Fall Housing June 15 Fall Semester Fall Housing Waitlist Opens June 22 Fall Semester Last Day to Cancel a Fall Housing Offer and Receive a Refund of the Reservation Fee June 30 Fall Semester Fall Application Closes & Last Day of Fall Waitlist Housing Selection September 23 Fall Semester Last Day for Fall Move-ins September 30 Fall Semester Spring 2023 Housing Application Opens October 1 Spring Semester Application Opens Early October Spring Semester Review Process Early November to Mid-December Spring Semester Housing Assignments* Mid-November to Mid-December Spring Semester Wait List Opens Mid-December Spring Semester Wait List Closes Late January *Housing assignments are made on a rolling basis as space becomes available. Students who do not receive a housing assignment will automatically be placed on the wait list. Contact Us If you have any questions concerning University Housing, email [email protected]. Expand all Collapse all Additional Housing Information Housing Application Instructions Only students currently not in Columbia Residential need to apply and are encouraged to do so early. Housing assignments are made on a rolling basis as space becomes available. *Note: Only students who have accepted their offer of admission, paid their deposit, and activated their UNI will be able to access the Housing Portal and apply for housing. To apply, please follow these steps: Accept your offer of admission and submit your deposit Activate your UNI. Review the Types of Accommodations section of the Columbia Residential website, and review and sign the Guidelines for Sharing Columbia Residential Housing form. Sign-up for a My Housing Portal account. Complete the Columbia Residential application. Log-in Information Students will also need their CUID/PID in order to complete the application; the CUID/PID number begins with C00 and is available at the top of any page in SSOL. To locate their PID, students may need to select “Show My Personal Name and Data” from the drop-down menu in the “Viewing Options” box and then click “Update View.” Waitlist The Wait List Housing Process operates after regular fall and spring housing assignments are made. Students who do not receive a housing assignment will automatically be placed on the waitlist. Students will be notified on a rolling basis about coming off the waitlist as space becomes available. If space does become available, students have 24 hours to accept or decline the offer. A student’s likelihood of receiving a housing offer during the waitlist process varies from year to year and depends on available units and the demand for apartments across all schools at the University. Note: While it is possible to receive an offer for housing as part of the waitlist process, University Housing is not guaranteed and it is important for students to investigate options on the open market while managing the waitlist process. Transferring Between Rooms/Apartments Direct Transfer (room-to-room) requests are accepted on an ongoing basis by Columbia Residential, and must be submitted through the Housing Portal. For more information on transferring, visit Columbia Residential. Off-Campus Housing Assistance Office (OCHA) OCHA provides advice on finding rentals in non-Columbia owned buildings and maintains a website and online database of available rooms, apartments, and apartment shares in the greater metropolitan area. This service is open to all Columbia students, full- and part-time. Office Location 419 West 119th Street (212) 854-2773 Expand all Collapse all Additional Resources Community Information Official website of the City of New York Manhattan Rental Market Report City-data.com: Detailed demographic information by zip code Areavibes.com: Crime stats listed by zip code Bestplaces.net: Community profiles Relocation Essentials: Community statistics; cost of living analysis Information for Renters New York City Affordable Housing Resource Center State of New York's Tenants' Rights Guide New York City Rent Guidelines Board TenantNet: Tenants' rights information Nolo.com: Legal advice about renters' and tenants' rights Living in the City City Search Official Guide to NYC Time Out New York Transportation Metropolitan Transit Authority (MTA): Maps, timetables, and service announcements for New York City Transit (buses and subways), MetroNorth, the Long Island Railroad (LIRR) and NY bridges and tunnels New Jersey Transit (NYT): Maps, timetables, and service announcements for NJT Rail Service, NJT Bus Service and PATH service NYC Straphangers Campaign: Advocacy group for MTA riders iTrans NYC: Live train info, MTA service alerts, MTA maps, subway and bus directions, and schedules PATH: Port Authority Trans-Hudson (PATH) is a rapid transit system in the northeastern New Jersey cities of Newark, Harrison, Jersey City, and Hoboken, and Lower and Midtown Manhattan in New York City. More Information If you have any questions about GS housing, please contact [email protected]. Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close