Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home News Jacob Lew Elected to American Academy of Arts & Sciences The former U.S. treasury secretary, one of 261 new members, joined the SIPA faculty in 2017. You are here Home News May 5, 2022 jacob lew.PNG SIPA's Jacob J. Lew has been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the organization announced on April 28. A member of the SIPA faculty since 2017, the visiting professor—and former U.S. treasury secretary—joins accomplished leaders from academia, the arts, public policy, and others in one of the nation’s most prestigious honorary societies. “We are celebrating a depth of achievements in a breadth of areas,” said David Oxtoby, the Academy's president. “These individuals excel in ways that excite us and inspire us at a time when recognizing excellence, commending expertise, and working toward the common good is absolutely essential to realizing a better future.” Other Academy members include SIPA professors Jagdish Bhagwati, Guillermo Calvo, Michael Doyle, Kenneth Prewitt, Jeffrey Sachs, Joseph Stiglitz, as well as Saltzman Insitute members V. Page Fortna and Jack Snyder, who both teach in Columbia's political science department. Former dean Alfred Stepan, who died in 2017, and longtime professor Robert Jervis, who died in 2021, were also members. All told the Academy counts among its members more than 50 active University faculty, including President Lee C. Bollinger. SIPA Magazine SIPA_Magazine-2021_Cover.png The School of International and Public Affairs' print publication features articles by faculty, students, and alumni, as well as current news about SIPA's programs, events, and alumni. View Archive Journal of International Affairs jia-magazine-cover.png A leading peer-reviewed journal published by the School of International and Public Affairs. Visit Website Share This Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216