Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid How to Apply Disbursement of Aid Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid How to Apply Determining Your Award Disbursement of Aid Maintaining Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Special Circumstances Withdrawal Policy Fraud Policy Verification TASFA/Senate Bill 1528 SFA Upload Documents Tuition & Fees Types of Aid Scholarships & Financial Aid Forms FAQs Undergraduate Admissions Financial Literacy Graduate Costs & Financial Aid Find your Financial Aid Advisor Payment Information Contact Us Disbursement of Aid When we disburse your financial aid, we move your financial aid award from pending status to your balance due. We will disburse aid for Spring 2022 based on the following schedule. Click here to view the Summer 2022 Disbursement Calendar . For More Info: Disbursement FAQs Enrollment Requirement Spring 2022 Disbursement Date Spring 2022 Refund Generation Date Federal Pell Grant Program Grant amount is prorated according to enrollment. See Grant Requirements section below. Starting Afternoon of Feb. 4 for Sessions 1, 2 and 3 Session 4 Feb. 28 Session 5 Mar. 28 Session 6 Apr. 11 Starting Afternoon of Feb. 7 for Sessions 1, 2 and 3 Session 4 Mar. 1 Session 5 Mar. 29 Session 6 Apr. 12 State and Institutional Grants (TEXAS Grant, Undergraduate Institutional Grant, etc.) See Grant Requirements section below. Starting Afternoon of Feb. 4 for Sessions 1, 2 and 3 (if student is active in required enrollment) Session 4 Feb. 28 Session 5 Mar. 28 Session 6 Apr. 11 Starting Afternoon of Feb. 7 for Sessions 1, 2 and 3 (if student is active in required enrollment) Session 4 Mar. 1 Session 5 Mar. 29 Session 6 Apr. 12 Scholarships Please verify on scholarship letter Starting Afternoon of Jan. 18, if enrollment requirements are met by Sessions 1, 2, 3 First day of classes for enrollment that starts on Sessions 4, 5, 6 Starting Afternoon of Jan. 19, if enrollment requirements are met by Sessions 1, 2, 3 First day of classes for enrollment that starts on Sessions 4, 5, 6 Federal Direct Loans (Subsidized, Unsubsidized, PLUS) State Loan College Access Loan (CAL) 6 hours for undergraduate, optometry, pharmacy, medical, and law students/5 hours for graduates Starting Afternoon of Jan. 18, if enrollment requirements are met by Sessions 1, 2, 3 If enrollment requirements are met by Session 4: Feb. 21 If enrollment requirements are met by Session 5: Mar. 21 If enrollment requirements are met by Session 6: Apr. 4 Starting Afternoon of Jan. 19, if enrollment requirements are met by Sessions 1, 2, 3 If enrollment requirements are met by Session 4: Feb. 22 If enrollment requirements are met by Session 5: Mar. 22 If enrollment requirements are met by Session 6: Apr. 5 Private/Alternative Loans (From your Lender) Varies by lender Starting Afternoon of Jan. 18 (if funds are received from your lender) Starting Afternoon of Jan. 19 (if funds are received from your lender) Loans and Scholarships will begin disbursing the first week of classes as long as you are meeting the enrollment requirements (listed below) and as long as your classes have already started. If you are enrolled in a session that starts later in the semester, your aid will not disburse until all of your sessions start and reach the Official Reporting Day (ORD). All Grants will disburse after the ORD of your latest session, if you are meeting the enrollment requirements. This allows students to make changes to their enrollment status prior to the ORD without adversely affecting their financial aid status. Enrollment and Disbursement Requirements Students must be meeting the enrollment requirements of their awards in order for their aid to disburse in a timely fashion. Loan Requirements: The amount of Federal Direct Loans you receive is based on your yearly eligibility and requires at least six (undergraduate/optometry/ pharmacy/medical/law) or five (graduate) hours of enrollment for the semester to be eligible to receive any amount. A completed Entrance Counseling and a signed Master Promissory Note (MPN) with studentaid.gov is required before a Federal Direct Loan disbursement will take place. State loans may require you complete a MPN, and accept terms with the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board prior to disbursement. Private/alternative loan disbursements will occur when the funds are received from your lender. As noted on your student disclosure, changes in enrollment may result in delays, adjustments or cancellation of your pending aid. All students have been awarded based on an assumed full-time status. If you are not enrolled full time, your aid and refund may be adjusted. These adjustments will take place after ORD. Grant Requirements: Your grant disbursements will not occur until we have reached the Official Reporting Date (ORD) of your latest enrolled session. The delay in grant disbursement will allow you to make changes to your enrollment status without it affecting your financial aid status by the ORD period, and will reduce the risk of you owing the University money because of an over-award situation. Type of Grant Enrollment Requirements Federal Pell Grant Program Federal Pell Grant Program funds initially offered to you are based on an assumed full-time (12 hours) enrollment. The amount you will actually receive is based on the number of hours you are enrolled in, as of the 12th day of class; the information you provided on the FAFSA, and your lifetime limits already utilized. Your Federal Pell Grant Program funds will be prorated to reflect your actual enrolled hours after the 12th class day of each term. Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant Program (FSEOG) At least 9 credit hours *Texas Public Education Grant At least 9 credit hours *TEXAS Grant At least 9 credit hours *Undergraduate or Graduate Tuition Grant At least 9 credit hours for undergraduate students that began attendance at UH prior to Fall 2020. If UH attendance began on or after Fall 2020, the undergraduate requirement is at least 12 hours. All graduate students must be enrolled in at least 9 credit hours. *Students who have applied for graduation should complete a revision request form to our office to adjust aid before disbursement. Please note that if you have satisfied all application and disbursement requirements and met the conditions of the award, your financial aid will be automatically credited to your UH fee bill as payment during the scheduled disbursement time. If you have financial aid remaining after your tuition has been paid, the Bursar's office, known as the Office of Student Business Services office, will forward the balance to you. For your convenience, the University of Houston utilizes BankMobile for refund processing. You must indicate your refund preference at https://www.refundselection.com/ and select how you would like to receive your funds: You can elect to have your refund deposited to the bank account of your choice; or You can have your refund deposited to a BankMobile Vibe account For more information on BankMobile services, visit https://bankmobilevibe.com/. For More Info: Disbursement FAQs. Revisions and Cancellation of Aid The University reserves the right to review, revise or cancel all financial aid at any time due to changes in your enrollment, financial and/or academic status or failure to comply with federal or state laws and regulations, including financial verification, audit procedures and University policies. In addition, all financial aid is subject to revision based on the funds received by the University from the federal or state government and any changes to federal or state laws, regulations or policies. This revision may occur after disbursement or after the semester has concluded. Aid Revisions After Drop/Add Period If your financial aid is disbursed at the beginning of the semester and you reduce your number of enrolled hours within the drop/add period, your aid will be adjusted to reflect your semester registration. If your reduced enrollment results in less eligibility for aid, you will be charged for the overpayment of financial aid — creating a balance due on your UH student account. Undergraduate and Professional Enrollment Hours Status 1 - 5 less than 1/2 time 6 - 8 1/2 time 9 - 11 3/4 time 12+ full-time Graduate Enrollment Hours Status 1 - 4 less than 1/2 time 5 - 6 1/2 time 7 - 8 3/4 time 9+ full-time Related Links FAQs Emergency Book Loan Payment and Deferment Plans Scholarships and Financial Aid Forms Maintaining Eligibility Policy After the FAFSA Video How to View Pending Aid and Total Amount Due University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies