Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search Engage with Georgia Tech HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Georgia Tech’s motto is “Progress and Service.” The meaning of those words can be seen in the broad range of opportunities to engage with Georgia Tech. First and foremost are top-ranked undergraduate and graduate education programs, both online and in traditional classroom settings, in engineering, the sciences, computing, business, design and liberal arts. Our research program, supported by federal government agencies, companies, private organizations, the state of Georgia and others, allows us to address some of the most challenging issues facing the world today. This research, which emphasizes an interdisciplinary approach to collaborative problem-solving, improves the human condition, advances the economy, and helps ensure national safety and security. We also collaborate with established companies wanting to launch innovation centers and other activities near campus to take advance of the innovation ecosystem Georgia Tech has created. Our professional education programs help companies maintain world-class workforce, and we help them recruit our students as interns and graduates to attract the best and brightest new talent. Economic development and support for businesses and industry are also major goals. Georgia Tech supports entrepreneurs as they launch and build new companies, provides technology transfer and consulting services to companies wanting to reduce costs and become more productive, and helps researchers commercialize intellectual property coming out of Georgia Tech labs. Just tell us what you're interested in. We'll help you get started! Research & Development Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Professional Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team Have a question? Corporate Engagement Contact: Georgia Tech Corporate Relations Business & Entrepreneur Support Contact: Enterprise Innovation Institute Professional Education Contact: Georgia Tech Professional Education Technology Licensing Contact: Office of Technology Licensing Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN