Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF PHARMACY DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY PHARMACY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 PHARM 301 Medications and Health: It's Not All About Drugs (3) I&S/NW Dawson, Odegard, Weber Covers personal health promotion, treatment of illness, and health care. Explores several medication-related topics, provides insight on drug development and efficacy, and serves as introduction to students contemplating careers in health sciences, especially in pharmacy. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 301 PHARM 451 Introduction to Drug Discovery and Development (2) Covers the process of drug discovery and development with a specific emphasis on current trends and hot topics in the pharmaceutical sciences Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 451 PHARM 499 Undergraduate Research (1-6, max. 24) Research problems in clinical pharmacy or pharmaceutical sciences, including preclinical and/or clinical drug development and effectiveness research, and participate in departmental research projects. Prerequisite: permission of instructor Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 499 PHARM 500 Profession of Pharmacy (1) Introduces the new student to the profession of pharmacy. Provides both an historical and a modern context that assists student pharmacists begin to participate in the profession. Provides an overview of career opportunities. Prerequisite: professional PharmD class 1 student. Instructors: Kedzierski , Weber Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 500 PHARM 501 Alternative and Complementary Medicines (2) Studies popular alternative and complementary medicines used in the United States. Focuses on herbal products with some coverage of other non-nutritional dietary supplements. Open to professional and graduate students in the Schools of Pharmacy, Nursing, Medicine, Dentistry, and Public Health, or by permission of instructor. Prerequisite: completion of first-professional year in PharmD program. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 501 PHARM 503 Senior Care Introductory Pharmacy Practice Experience (2) Under faculty supervision, provides clinical services for senior patients in various settings. Includes reviewing charts, interviewing patients, collaborating with other health care providers, and making recommendations on medication therapies to providers and patients. All students participate in an orientation/seminar workshop and in a weekly (for five weeks) clinical pearls workshop. Prerequisite: either successful completion of the first five quarters of the PharmD curriculum or permission of instructor. Instructors: Murphy, Plein Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 503 PHARM 508 Philosophy of Drug Interactions (1) Draws on the wisdom of philosophers, scientists, and other thinkers, to discuss the nature and limitations of scientific truth, common reasoning errors in science, and the importance of a philosophical perspective in clinical decision making when science alone is insufficient to assess the clinical importance and management of drug interactions. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 508 PHARM 509 Principles of Evidence Based Medicine III: Critical Evaluation of Published Evidence (1) T. O'SULLIVAN Provides a critical evaluation of medical literature. Prerequisite: permission of School of Pharmacy. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 509 PHARM 510 Contemporary Concepts in Clinical Nutrition Support (2) Addresses current topics and concepts in clinical nutrition support. Topics include assessment and management of patients requiring specialized nutrition support, enteral nutrition, and parental nutrition. Recommended: biochemistry, anatomy and physiology, or permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 510 PHARM 512 Timely Topics for Health Professionals (1, max. 4) Explores timely and inter-professionally relevant topics on social justice, health disparities, and health care; including the annual UW Health Sciences "Common Book". Involves active learning methods and group discussions where students and faculty can share thoughts and perspectives. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 512 PHARM 513 Medical Devices for Home Healthcare (3) D. DOWNING Study of medical devices commonly provided by pharmacists to their patients, including their selection and adaptation for specific patient needs. Lectures include display and demonstration of actual devices. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 513 PHARM 514 Pharmacotherapeutics for Advanced Nursing Practice (3) Hertig Application of principles of pharmacology as foundation for clinical decision making by advanced practice nurses for individuals and populations. Incorporates pharmacotherapy into advanced nursing therapeutics by addressing pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, pharmacogenetics as wells as patient- related factors that support selection of commonly used drugs. Selected drugs within categories are compared/contrasted. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 514 PHARM 515 Pharmacotherapeutics for Acute/Critical Illness (3) Analysis of issues that impact the assessment, prescription, and evaluation of pharmacotherapeutic regiments for patients with acute/critical illness or injury. Current evidence together with pharmacotherapeutic principles are considered within the clinical context as the basis for decision-making in acute/critical care clinical practice. Prerequisite: either PHARM 514 or equivalent. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 515 PHARM 516 Introduction to Biomedical Regulatory Affairs (3) Hazlet Surveys government oversight of drugs, devices, and biotechnology derived products; laws and regulations that apply to development, testing, and production; and responsibilities of a regulatory affairs specialist in the regulatory setting. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 516 PHARM 517 Product Development and Manufacturing Systems (3) Hazlet Surveys government oversight of drugs, devices, and biotechnology derived products; laws and regulations that apply to development, testing, and production. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 517 PHARM 518 Product Testing, Evaluation, and Post-Market Issues (3) Hazlet Medical product post-marketing requirements; reporting and enforcement actions; inspections (internal and by regulators) preparation, conduct, and follow-up actions; surveillance and studies, reimbursement, and economics. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 518 PHARM 519 Pharmacotherapeutics for Infectious Disease and Infection (2) Black, Simpson Analysis of pharmacotherapeutics to control infection and manage infectious disease through seminar discussion of cases, critical analysis of a pharmacotherapeutic regimen, and development of references to enhance students' clinical expertise. Emphasis on principles of anti-infective therapy, problem solving clinical cases with complex medication regimes, and identifying judicious pharmacotherapeutic plans. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 519 PHARM 521 Pharmacy Teaching Practicum (1-3, max. 6) R. ALLEN, D. DOWNING, A. ELLSWORTH, T. HAZLET Allows students the opportunity to apply learning about education in a mentored experiences. Students serve as assistant instructors in existing pharmacy courses or engage in other approved educational experiences. Prerequisite: PHARM 586, instructors permission. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 521 PHARM 522 Opportunities in Industry for Pharmacists (1) Introduces students to career opportunities for pharmacists in industry, including drug development, regulatory affairs, drug information, health economics, sales, and marketing. Recommended: PHARM 451 or PHARM 551; PHARM 520; and PHARM 542 or HEOR 505. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 522 PHARM 523 Insights into Community Pharmacy Practice Transformation (1) Introduces student pharmacists to practice transformation concepts, innovative patient care services, and state and national leaders in community pharmacy practice. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 523 PHARM 524 Topics in Infectious Disease Pharmacotherapy (2) Discussion of specialized topics in infectious disease pharmacotherapy not covered in the core pharmacotherapeutics series. Expansion of student knowledge regarding the role of pharmacists in antimicrobial stewardship. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 532; recommended: completion of the second year of the PharmD professional degree program. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 524 PHARM 525 Advanced Compounding Skills (1) Prepares the student to create unique, patient-specific pharmaceutical dosage forms used in contemporary pharmacy practice. Includes pre-readings and assignments, a didactic session and a laboratory session, and is offered over a weekend. Prerequisite: PCEUT 531. Instructors: Lawhorn, Needham Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 525 PHARM 529 Introduction to Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis of Evidence (3) Conceptual understanding of the quantitative methods used to synthesize evidence. Methods for pooling evidence across independent studies, pooling binary/continuous outcomes, differences between fixed and random effects models, and guidelines for appraising published systematic reviews/meta-analyses. Prerequisite: either introductory level courses in statistics, epidemiology, or biostatistics or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with BIME 541/EPI 541/HSERV 529. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 529 PHARM 531 Advances in the Diagnosis, Treatment and Management of Epilepsy (2) Complexity of epilepsy pathophysiology, classification, diagnosis, and treatment. Introduces principles of anti-seizure drug discovery and emerging opportunities for epilepsy research at UW. Five week condensed survey. Prerequisite: permission of Instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 531 PHARM 537 Chemical Dependency Concepts (2) Kedzierski Examines the development of therapeutic frame for working with patients with addictions. Includes the genesis of addiction harm reduction strategies, legal and ethical considerations, medication management in the substance-abusing population, impaired pharmacist rehabilitation, detection and dealing with substance abuse issues in pharmacy practice, community resources. Course offered to professional PharmD, class 2. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 537 PHARM 538 Chemical Dependency Issues in Practice (3) Emphasis on drug classes, pharmacologic management of abstinence and withdrawal, drug testing, drug use in pregnancy, treatment options and recovery, codependency and legal and ethical considerations. Prerequisite: PHARM 537. Instructors: Kedzierski Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 538 PHARM 539 Principles of Professional Practice Management (3) Downing, Somani Emphasizes the major issues and barriers of providing pharmaceutical care in institutional and community pharmacies. Topics include evaluating workflow and facility design, complying with legal and safety standards, managing drug distribution services, payment for pharmacist services, human resource management and marketing pharmaceutical care services. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 539 PHARM 541 Pharmacy, Healthcare, and Society (3) Sullivan Introduction to health services and pharmacy practice designed for future healthcare practitioners. Examines the history, organization, and effectiveness of the U.S. healthcare system. Stresses the student's ability to adopt a broad perspective across healthcare disciplines and traditional boundaries. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 541 PHARM 543 Pharmacy Laws and Ethics ([2-3]-, max. 5) Hazlet Studies the laws governing the practice of pharmacy, approaches to legal, and ethical dilemmas in the delivery of pharmaceutical care, and methods of statutory and regulatory reform. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 543 PHARM 544 Survey of Pharmacy Laws (1) Hazlet Prepare, discuss, and present responses to assigned questions developed by faculty regarding laws governing pharmacy practice in the course of reviewing for the Multistate Pharmacy Jurisprudence Examination. Class meets for two consecutive Saturdays in February and March. Email and web access required. Open to fourth-year PharmD students; non-matriculated students by permission only. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 544 PHARM 548 Current Topics in Geriatrics (1, max. 2) Case-based approach to principles of geriatric pharmacotherapy and medications commonly prescribed for older adults. Utilizes a "layered-learning model" in which more experienced students teach junior students under guidance of a faculty mentor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 548 PHARM 549 Pharmacotherapeutics for Older Adults (3-4) Applies pharmacologic knowledge to the assessment, individualized selection of therapy, and monitoring of treatment in older adults with multiple comorbidities; and age-related changes in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics with emphasis on problem solving, using case examples. Prerequisite: either PHARM 561; PHARM 565 or permission of the School of Pharmacy. Instructors: Murphy Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 549 PHARM 550 Seminar in Geriatrics ([0-1]-, max. 1) L. MIKE Students facilitate a discussion with students/faculty about the management of an older adult with complex medication regimen. In addition, students critically review and appraise primary literature relevant to contemporary issues related to geriatric pharmacotherapy. Prerequisite: PHARM 549; permission of the instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 550 PHARM 551 Introduction to Drug Discovery and Development (2) Covers the process of drug discovery and development with a specific emphasis on current trends and hot topics in the pharmaceutical sciences. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 551 PHARM 552 Practice-Based Leadership and Project Development (2) J. Arnold, N. Murphy Strengthen skills necessary to develop, implement, and evaluate innovated programs that improve health, healthcare delivery, and the patient experience. In addition to actively participating in class discussions and group work, students are responsible for submitting weekly assignments, a final reflection paper, and a project proposal. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 552 PHARM 556 Pain Management (1) Pain Management and opioid stewardship is a rapidly growing specialty for clinical pharmacy. Provides opportunities for pharmacy students to have more in-depth education regarding the management of acute, chronic, cancer or non-cancer pain . Prerequisite: third year professional Pharm D student. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 556 PHARM 557 Pharmacotherapeutics II (3) Peggy Soule Odegard Discusses the integration of and applies epidemiology, pathophysiology, clinical diagnostics, and drug-related knowledge toward the management of common diseases. Emphasizes problem-solving through the use of case examples. Prerequisite: permission of school. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 557 PHARM 558 Pharmacotherapeutics I - Pharmacotherapy with Non-prescription (OTC) Drugs (3) Ellsworth Overview of common classes of nonprescription drug therapeutics with an emphasis on case examples, patient assessment, non-drug adjunct therapy, product selection, and patient advice. Oral presentation required. Computer (Internet) case discussion mandatory. Enrollment restricted to first-year PharmD students. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 558 PHARM 559 Pharmacotherapeutics III (4) Discusses the integration of and applies epidemiology, pathophysiology, clinical diagnostics, and drug-related knowledge towards the management of common disease. Emphasizes problem-solving through the use of case examples. Prerequisite: permission of School of Pharmacy. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 559 PHARM 560 Pharmacotherapeutics IV (6) Discusses the integration of and applies epidemiology, pathophysiology, clinical diagnostics, and drug-related knowledge towards the management of common disease. Emphasizes problem-solving through the use of case examples. Prerequisite: permission of School of Pharmacy Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 560 PHARM 561 Pharmacotherapeutics V (7) Discusses the integration of and applies epidemiology, pathophysiology, clinical diagnostics, and drug-related knowledge towards the management of common disease. Emphasizes problem-solving through the use of case examples. Prerequisite: permission of School of Pharmacy Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 561 PHARM 562 Pharmacotherapeutics VI (6) Discusses the integration of and applies epidemiology, pathophysiology, clinical diagnostics, and drug-related knowledge towards the management of common disease. Emphasizes problem-solving through the use of case examples. Prerequisite: permission of School of Pharmacy Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 562 PHARM 563 Applied Pharmacotherapeutics I (2) L. Mike Develops a foundation of skills that enables a pharmacist to practice collaborative patient-specific care. Prerequisite: permission of School of Pharmacy. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 563 PHARM 564 Applied Pharmacotherapeutics II (2) L. Mike Develops a foundation of skills that enables a pharmacist to practice collaborative patient specific care. Prerequisite: permission of School of Pharmacy. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 564 PHARM 565 Applied Pharmacotherapeutics III (2) L. MIKE Develops a foundation of skills that enables a pharmacist to practice collaborative patient-specific care. Prerequisite: permission of School of Pharmacy. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 565 PHARM 566 Applied Pharmacokinetics (2) Pharmacokinetics of specific drugs. Influence of age, weight, sex, and disease states on patient-specific dosage regimens emphasized. Advanced kinetic concepts are discussed and put into applied context. Prerequisite: PCEUT 532. Instructors: Bauer View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 566 PHARM 567 Cancer Pharmacotherapeutics (2) Pharmacotherapy of cancer, covering supportive care therapeutics (antibiotics, antiemetics, analgesics,) to the antineoplastic agents. The pathophysiology, staging, and treatment of different cancers is discussed. Specialists from the different oncology practice areas serve as guest lecturers. Prerequisite: either PHARM 561; PHARM 565, or permission of the School of Pharmacy. Instructors: Gibson, Kwok, McQuary, Vincent Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 567 PHARM 569 Fluid and Electrolytes and Parenteral Nutrition (2) Chan Focuses on the principles of fluid electrolyte and nutritional management in patients requiring parenteral nutrition (PN) and infusion therapy. Topics include acid-base balance, macro- and micro-nutrient requirements, nutritional assessment, complications of PN and compounding and compatibility of PN solutions. Discusses consideration in special populations (e.g., ICU). Prerequisite: Prerequisite: either PHARM 561; PHARM 565, or permission of the School of Pharmacy. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 569 PHARM 570 Critical Care Pharmacotherapeutics (2) Overviews pharmacotherapeutic topics for patients in the critical care setting. Discusses principles in hemodynamic monitoring, respiratory management, concepts in pathophysiology related to critical illnesses, and other timely topics reflecting current clinical practice. Prerequisite: third-year PharmD student, or approval of instructor. Instructors: Mike View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 570 PHARM 571 Current Topics in Acute Care Pharmacotherapy (1) Increases understanding and stimulates discussion in current topics related to acute care pharmacotherapy. Reviews the management of patients in the acute care setting through current cases presented by instructors. May be taken alone or concurrently with PHARM 570. Prerequisite: either PHARM 561 ;PHARM 565, or permission of the School of Pharmacy. Instructors: Chan View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 571 PHARM 572 Pharmacist Advocacy I: Legislative and Grassroots Affairs (1, max. 3) Increases student awareness and knowledge of local, state, and national healthcare issues that affect pharmacists and their patients. Prepares pharmacy students to knowledgably represent their school, profession, and their patients during individual and organized-group pharmacy legislative and other advocacy activities. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 572 PHARM 573 Pharmacist Advocacy II: Legislative and Grassroots Affairs (1, max. 3) Downing Prepares pharmacy students to knowledgably represent their school, profession, and their patients during individual and organized-group pharmacy legislative and other advocacy activities. Students actively participate in off-campus legislative and advocacy activities while the Washington State legislature is in session. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 573 PHARM 579 Current Topics in Pharmacy (1, max. 3) Black, Murphy Provides a forum for discussing late-breaking topics that impact current and future pharmacy research and practice. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 579 PHARM 581 Global Health Pharmacy: Medicines, Practice, and Policy (2) Andy Stergachis Introduces the critical role of pharmaceutical in addressing major diseases (such as HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis) affecting persons in resource-limited settings. Addresses the wide range of relevant issues, including burden of disease, human resource capacity, regulation, drug safety/pharmacovigilance, drug distribution, pharmacoeconomics, financing, intellectual property, and drug trade policies. Offered: jointly with G H 543. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 581 PHARM 582 Special Topics in Global Health Pharmacy and Medical Products ([1-3]-, max. 6) Babigurmira, Garrison Provides in-depth instruction on selected special topics relating to the use, access to, and impact of pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and diagnostics/medical devices in global health. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 582 PHARM 584 Pharmacy Practice I - Introduction to Community Pharmacy Practice I (3) R. ALLEN, J. BACCI, K. DAWSON Introduction to development and practice of skills in drug information resources; prescription processing and problem solving; pharmaceutical calculations and compounding; patient information and counseling on over-the-counter and compounded medications. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 584 PHARM 585 Pharmacy Practice II (3) R. ALLEN, J. BACCI, K. DAWSON Continued development and practice of skills in drug information resources; prescription problem solving; pharmaceutical calculations; and patient information and counseling. Emphasizes use of commonly prescribed prescription medication as well as patient-specific characteristics that impact their care. Prerequisite: PHARM 584. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 585 PHARM 586 Pharmacy Practice III: Applications of Public Health Practice (3) R. ALLEN, J. BACCI, K. DAWSON Develops skills that enable public health screening and health promotion in community-based settings: administration of vaccines to adults and adolescents; practical application of community-based health screenings, counseling, and referral; and teaching self-monitoring techniques to patients. Emphasizes communication with members of special populations. Prerequisite: PHARM 585. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 586 PHARM 587 Diabetes Prevention (2) Provides students with knowledge/skills to serve as Diabetes Prevention lifestyle coaches. The knowledge/skills developed can be applied to promote health/wellness in the community. Prerequisite: PHARM 563. Instructors: Danielson, McKennon, Odegard Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 587 PHARM 588 Diabetes Care (2) Further develops foundations in the principles of diabetes management and provides practice in application of diabetes-care principles. Develops knowledge and abilty to assess, manage, educate, and monitor patients with diabetes. Prerequisite: either PHARM 560; PHARM 564, or permission of the School of Pharmacy. Instructors: Danielson, Odegard Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 588 PHARM 591 Community Collaborations in Healthcare Practicum (2, max. 8) Collaboration with representatives from the Salvation Army Adult Rehabilitation Center and other community sites to improve health literacy and health outcomes of men and women beneficiaries (residents) in addiction treatment and recovery. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Kedzierski Credit/no-credit only. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 591 PHARM 592 Pharmacy Practice IV: Design and Analysis of Medical Studies (3) Introduces the basic biostatistical concepts used in the medical literature, and the various study designs. Develops students' skills in critically evaluating the medical literature, with the goal of applying these skills to clinical practice. Prerequisite: PHARM 584; PHARM 585; PHARM 586. Instructors: Devine Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 592 PHARM 593 Pharmacy Practice V: Institutional Pharmacy Practice (3) Somani Includes discussion and skill development related to contemporary institutional pharmacy practice. Focuses on health information technology, the quality improvement process, MUE and cost management, medication order processing, counseling and medication reconciliation, interpersonal teamwork, and patient-oriented services. Students create and present mock proposals for new guidelines and practice protocols. Prerequisite: PHARM 592. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 593 PHARM 594 Pharmacy Practice VI: Medication Quality and Safety (2) Introduces topics related to medication safety and quality improvement. Describes the role of information technology and the importance of organizational leadership and teamwork in improving safety. Introduces topics of collaborative drug therapy management and managed care pharmacy practice. Prerequisite: PHARM 593. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 594 PHARM 595 Special Studies in Pharmacy (1-6, max. 24) Special studies of professional topics in pharmacy. An opportunity to expand the breadth and depth of understanding in specific pharmaceutical areas. Students may undertake independent study under the individual direction of a faculty member. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 595 PHARM 596 Seminars in Pediatric Pharmacotherapy (2) Explores therapeutic topics pertinent to the pediatric population. Emphasizes ambulatory pediatrics. Prerequisite: third-year PharmD student or permission of instructor. Instructors: Harvey Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 596 PHARM 598 Seminar in Current Pharmacy Practice Topics (2, max. 6) Provides a variety of current topics related to pharmacotherapy and pharmacy practice. Presenters include faculty, pharmacy practice residents, and other guest speakers. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 598 PHARM 599 Independent Study/Research (1-6, max. 24) Applied pharmaceutical research problems. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PHARM 599 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022