Skip to main content Baylor Business - Hankamer School of Business Baylor University About HSB Student Resources Giving Contact Undergraduate #BU26 Graduate MBA Programs Army-Baylor Programs Master of Business Analytics Master of Information Systems Master of Economics Master of Accountancy Master of Taxation Doctorate in Entrepreneurship Doctorate in Health Services Research Doctorate in Information Systems Areas of Study Accounting & Business Law Baylor Business Fellows Economics Entrepreneurship & Corporate Innovation Finance, Insurance & Real Estate Information Systems & Business Analytics Marketing Management Centers & Institutes Entrepreneurship Family Business Financial Markets Health Policy & Leadership International Business Nonprofit Leadership Professional Selling Real Estate Sales & Marketing Sports Strategy and Sales Technology Center Ethics Foster Facilities Forms Room Information AT Lab Services Career Center Alumni About HSB Student Resources Giving Undergraduate Graduate Areas of Study Centers & Institutes Ethics Technology Center Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation building at night Watch Video Full Story Technology Center The Technology Center for Hankamer School of Business on the new Foster Campus for Business and Innovation is the continuation of the Casey Computer Center. The Casey Computer Center was created in 1962 through the generosity of Mr. and Mrs. Carl Casey, who provided the original equipment. Since that time the center has provided excellent service and state-of-the-art equipment for students, faculty and staff in the Hankamer School of Business. To provide the best service to all of its users, the center functions as a separate department, reporting directly to Dean Sandeep Mazumder. News News Feed Audio: Business Review: Getting to the Bottom of the Bottom-Line Mentality AICPA Recognizes 2021 Top CPA Exam Performers with Elijah Watt Sells Award Audio: Business Review: Making an About-Face in Business Edgy Ad Campaign for Christian TV Series Gets Mixed Reviews View All News Events May162022 Minimester session June202022 Juneteenth - University Holiday July042022 Independence Day - University Holiday June032022 Summer Session I June032022 Full Summer session View Full Calendar Search Site Map About Staff Services Technology Commons Lab - x4726 Room Information Frequently Asked Questions Stay Connected Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed About Staff Services Technology Commons Lab - x4726 Room Information Frequently Asked Questions Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed Baylor Business Links About HSB Advisory Board Baylor Business Brand Events Maps & Directions News Find Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Podcast RSS Feed Resources and Tools Canvas Digital Measures Directory Faculty/Staff Resources HSB Policies Student Resources Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University Waco, Texas 76798 1-800-BAYLOR-U