Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About Overview Leadership What is population health? Hans Rosling Center Evaluation Contact us Strategic areas Interdisciplinary collaboration Climate change and its human impacts Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief Violence and injury prevention Social innovation and entrepreneurship COVID-19 COVID-19 Education Undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian Response Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Disaster and humanitarian experts Other experts Mobile and digital population health Social innovation and entrepreneurship Funding and awards News Latest news and updates Subscribe Journal articles Media coverage Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events Population Health Menu Home About Overview Leadership What is population health? Hans Rosling Center Evaluation Contact us Strategic areas Interdisciplinary collaboration Climate change and its human impacts Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief Violence and injury prevention Social innovation and entrepreneurship COVID-19 COVID-19 Education Undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian Response Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Disaster and humanitarian experts Other experts Mobile and digital population health Social innovation and entrepreneurship Funding and awards News Latest news and updates Subscribe Journal articles Media coverage Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events Home Population Health Resources Funding and awards Funding and awards Close Menu Home Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Search Climate Change Experts at UW Climate Change Centers & Institutes Disaster and humanitarian experts Search Disaster and Humanitarian Experts at UW Disaster and Humanitarian Centers Other experts Mobile and digital population health Developing apps and mobile technologies Digital technologies for health systems Student groups and programs Tech transfer, commercialization and FDA regulations External community resources Key contacts Social innovation and social entrepreneurship Resources for UW students Resources for UW researchers External resources and information Contact the initiative Funding and awards Pilot research grants Chronic disease pilot grants The Population Health Initiative either offers or cross-promotes a number of funding opportunities for undergraduate students, graduate students and faculty. Undergraduate students Recognition and travel awards are available through partnerships with Undergraduate Academic Affairs and the Odegaard Undergraduate Library. Undergraduates are also welcome to apply for Mary Gates scholarships. Undergraduate Research Symposium recognition awards Recognition awards are available for innovative, interdisciplinary and well-presented research ideas relevant to population health as part of the Undergraduate Research Symposium each spring. The $100 awards were created in partnership with the Undergraduate Research Program and are for students from all three campuses planning to present at the annual symposium. Interested students will have the option to submit a 250-word description of how their research aligns with the theme of population health. Leaders of the Population Health Initiative will select standout applications for recognition awards of $100 each. Meet the 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 awardees. Learn more Undergraduate research conference travel awards The Population Health Initiative has partnered with the Undergraduate Research Program to offer funding for travel awards. Requests for up to $700 will be considered for travel to conferences specific to population health. Applicants from all three UW campuses will complete the normal travel award application. They will also be asked to submit a 250-word description of how their research aligns with the theme of population health. Leaders of the Population Health Initiative will review applications and offer their input into the selection of the awardees. Meet the 2017-18 and 2018-19 awardees. Learn more Library Research Award for undergraduates Recognition awards of $250 each will be available for innovative, interdisciplinary or well-written research papers or creative projects relevant to population health. The awards are offered each spring in partnership with University Libraries as part of its Library Research Award for Undergraduates program. Applicants from all three UW campuses will have the option to submit an additional 250-word description of how their research aligns with the theme of population health. Leaders of the Population Health Initiative will select standout applications. Meet the 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2021 awardees. Learn more Mary Gates scholarships The Mary Gates Endowment for Students provides financial support to undergraduates from all disciplines who are involved in research or leadership activities on campus or in the community. Learn more Graduate students We offer pilot awards to support research projects as well as travel awards for graduate students who have been accepted to present their work at a conference. Graduate students can also apply for travel awards through the Graduate School and Latino Center for Health, and for project funding through the UW’s Northwest Center for Public Health Practice. Pilot research grants The Population Health Initiative seeks to create a world where all people can live healthier and more fulfilling lives. In support of that vision, the initiative is pleased to offer population health pilot research grants of up to $25,000 each to University of Washington graduate students and post-doctoral scholars. Applications for the next round of funding can be submitted beginning in early 2022. Learn more Population health conference travel awards Population Health Graduate Student Conference Travel Awards of up to $1,500 are available to further students’ academic, research, or professional goals as they strive to become the next generation of leaders in population health. The application periods have been postponed pending greater clarity on the status of the COVID-19 pandemic. Meet the 2017, 2018 and 2019 award winners. These awards are open to graduate students on all three UW campuses who: Are currently enrolled in a graduate or professional degree program. Have been accepted to present a population health-related paper, poster, or exhibit, or to serve as an invited speaker, at a conference, symposium, or other professional and academic meeting. Students in the arts may request funding for invited performances or installations. Applicants cannot apply for retroactive reimbursement for a conference or other meeting already attended. Travel expenses for this award will be reimbursed after being incurred, with the exception of airfare, which can be purchased in advance by working with the UW’s preferred travel agency. In order to apply, an applicant must be nominated by a faculty member. Once nominated, applicants will receive an email with a link to their portion of the application. Students are encouraged to invite their faculty mentors to consider a nomination. Applications will be reviewed by leaders of the Population Health Initiative to select successful applicants. Selection criteria include: Quality of the application Importance of participation in the conference to the applicant’s long-term goals Demonstrated need for funding Faculty Nomination Form Graduate Funding Information Services Graduate Funding Information Services (GFIS) works with current and admitted UW graduate students, helping them identify and locate funding opportunities for graduate school-related expenses including tuition, research, conference and research travel. Students can visit GFIS during drop-in advising hours, schedule individual appointments or request information by email. Students can also visit the GFIS Funding Resources Guide and blog to learn about campus funding resources, databases, search strategies and events. Learn more Graduate School travel awards The UW Office of Postdoc Affairs supports the professional and career development of the university’s postdocs by supporting travel to professional meetings. Limited funds are available each quarter to help postdocs defray some conference registration and travel costs under certain circumstances. Learn more Latino Center for Health travel awards The Latino Center for Health offers awards of up to $1,000 to cover conference travel expenses for UW students. Priority will be given to graduate students, primary authors and presentation topics that address Latino health issues, but others are encouraged to apply. Applications are reviewed on October 10th and March 10th. Learn more Northwest Center for Public Health Practice project awards The Northwest Center for Public Health Practice supports health professions students in completing practice-based projects. Stipends are distributed directly to students and are intended to help them defray living expenses during their hands-on training experience. Awards of up to $3,500 are typically available. Learn more Faculty The Population Health Initiative offers pilot research grants to interdisciplinary teams of UW faculty who seek to address major challenges we face in population health. We also offer a Population Health Innovation Award in partnership with CoMotion. Pilot research grants The Population Health Initiative seeks to create a world where all people can live healthier and more fulfilling lives. In support of that vision, the initiative is pleased to offer three tiers of population health pilot research grants ranging in size from $25,000 to $200,000 each to University of Washington faculty. Applications for the next round of funding can be submitted beginning in early 2022. Learn more Population Health Innovation Award The Population Health Initiative has again partnered with CoMotion to offer a Population Health Innovation Award through its Innovation Fund. The Population Health Innovation Award will fund projects that both support the vision of the Population Health Initiative and fulfill CoMotion’s criteria of eventually becoming sustainable commercial or social ventures. Funds of up to $40,000 will be awarded to researchers for direct project costs for 12 months, with an additional $10,000 for business development. All applicants must adhere to CoMotion’s application process. Declarations of Intent for the Spring 2022 awards are due on March 7, 2022. Details regarding the winning applications from 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 can be found by visiting our latest news page. Learn more Chronic disease pilot program The Population Health Initiative has partnered with Novo Nordisk and the University of Washington’s Engineering Innovation in Health program to launch a pilot grant program intended to catalyze innovative projects seeking to prevent, mitigate or reverse the impact of chronic disease on domestic and international populations. Two awards of $100,000 and one of $50,000 across two areas of focus are available to support UW researchers in testing scalable ideas that seek to better understanding at the intersections of biology, data, digital tools, behavior and financial implications. Applications are due on Tuesday, May 31, 2022. Learn more The University of Washington’s Alcohol & Drug Abuse Institute, CoMotion, Office of Global Affairs, Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, Institute of Translational Health Sciences and the Office of Research, as well as the Gates Foundation, also offer their own funding mechanisms that support similar work. UW Alcohol and Drug Abuse Institute The Alcohol and Drug Abuse Institute seeks to stimulate and facilitate substance abuse research at the University of Washington. One way this is accomplished is through the Small Grants Program, which awards grants of up to $30,000 each to UW researchers for pilot studies and developmental research. Substance abuse research is interpreted broadly to include everything from basic studies of the pharmacology of drugs of abuse to studies of clinical treatment strategies, prevention and social policy issues. Application deadlines are March and October 15. Learn more UW CoMotion CoMotion is the UW’s collaborative innovation hub, delivering the tools and connections that UW researchers and students need to accelerate the impact of their innovations. The CoMotion Innovation Fund is a partnership between CoMotion and the Washington Research Foundation to provide up to $1 million per year for applied research. CoMotion also supports several competitions. Learn more UW Global Innovation Fund The UW Office of Global Affairs provides initial support for initiatives and programs that enhance the University’s global engagement and reach in areas such as population health. Offers funding of up to $20,000, with awards covering up to 75% of the total program cost. The balance must be matched by departments. Applications are accepted during Fall Quarter. Learn more UW Institute of Translational Health Sciences The UW’s Institute of Translational Health Sciences offers a variety of funding for novel, innovative and collaborative translational and clinical research. Areas of specific focus include supporting junior investigators, incentivizing new collaborations, improving the conduct of clinical trial research and supporting collaborations between academic and community investigators. Applications for funding are accepted at different time periods throughout the year. Learn more UW Royalty Research Fund The Royalty Research Fund, managed by the Office of Research, supports UW faculty seeking to establish new research programs. These one-year awards of up to $40,000 are funded from royalty and licensing fee income generated by the University’s technology transfer program. Submissions are accepted on the last Monday of September and the first Monday in March every year. Learn more Gates Foundation Grand Challenges Explorations The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation seeks to foster early-stage discovery research through its Grand Challenges Explorations grants. Initial grants of $100,000 each are available, with projects that show promise eligible to receive additional funding of up to $1 million. These grants are intended to grow the pipeline of ideas for solving the most challenging global health and development issues. Applicants can be at any experience level, in any discipline, and from any organization. Learn more Home Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Search Climate Change Experts at UW Climate Change Centers & Institutes Disaster and humanitarian experts Search Disaster and Humanitarian Experts at UW Disaster and Humanitarian Centers Other experts Mobile and digital population health Developing apps and mobile technologies Digital technologies for health systems Student groups and programs Tech transfer, commercialization and FDA regulations External community resources Key contacts Social innovation and social entrepreneurship Resources for UW students Resources for UW researchers External resources and information Contact the initiative Funding and awards Pilot research grants Chronic disease pilot grants What is population health? Population health is a broad concept encompassing not only the elimination of diseases and injuries, but also the intersecting and overlapping factors that influence health. Learn more Population Health Twitter Tweets by UW_PHI Please enable JavaScript to view this widget. Events calendar University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA