Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty & Staff Forms Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Students Enrollment Verification Grades OverviewGPA and Grading ScaleGrade ChangeFAQ Transcripts OverviewOfficialUnofficialLambuth UniversityFAQ Reverse Transfer FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA NotificationRelease of Student Education Record Student Right-to-Know Information Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Overview Late/Retroactive Withdrawal Self Service Guides Take Action View Calendars Order Transcripts View Notices Contact Us Home Registrar Students Late and Retroactive Withdrawals Late and Retroactive Withdrawals Late withdrawals and retroactive withdrawals are requests to drop a course or courses after the final date to drop classes has passed. These withdrawals are approved in the cases of serious and unforeseen circumstances that make it impossible for the student to complete classes that semester. There are three criteria used in deciding what will count as such “extreme circumstances.” The reason for withdrawing must be: Beyond the student’s control, Unforeseeable, and Severe Late Drop/Late Withdrawal Process A late withdrawal from a course (or courses) occurs after the official last day to withdraw through the end of the next major term (fall or spring). Students must seek approval from the college of their major for late drops and late withdrawals. The college of the student’s major will approve or deny based on circumstances and documentation provided. Documentation should indicate extreme conditions beyond the student's control that prevented the student from withdrawing before the official last day to withdraw during the term. If the college approves, students should put in a ticket at http://www.memphis.edu/tigerhelp and complete the Course Withdrawal/Late Drops ticket. The ticket will require the college approval to be uploaded (such as an email sent to the student, an image of the approval, or the schedule adjustment form that the college will provide, etc.). Any request for a late drop or late withdrawal that does not have approval from the college will not be processed by the Registrar’s Office. Example: You want to request a late drop from class(es) for Fall 2021 and it is now Spring 2022. This request must go to the college of your major for approval. Provide the college approval and information in the late drop Tiger Help ticket at http://www.memphis.edu/tigerhelp. If you want to apply for a financial appeal, please visit the USBS Student Financial Appeals page for more information. Retroactive Withdrawal Process Retroactive withdrawals occur more than one major term (fall or spring) after the term for which the withdrawal is requested. Petitions to withdraw from courses that ended more than one regular (fall or spring) semester after the semester for which the withdrawal is requested must be submitted to the Registrar’s Office. Students must complete the withdrawal petition and send to Dr. Darla Keel, Assistant Vice Provost of Enrollment Systems and University Registrar, at darkeel@memphis.edu. Students should provide as much information or documentation as possible. Documentation should indicate extreme conditions beyond the student's control that prevented the student from withdrawing before the official last day to withdraw during the term. Upon committee review, the student will be contacted with the outcome. Example: You are requesting a retroactive withdrawal from Summer 2021 or earlier and it is now Spring 2022. This is a retroactive withdrawal petition since Fall 2021 is a major term and that term is over. Your request must be sent to the Registrar’s Office for review. Send the petition packet in an email to darkeel@memphis.edu. Visit the late and retroactive withdrawals guidelines page for more information. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.