Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Financing & Support Internal Funding & Appointments Teaching at Brown Graduate School Skip to Navigation Teaching at Brown Teaching is an integral part of the doctoral student experience at Brown, and these students are expected to teach as part of their professional and scholarly training. As a teaching assistant (TA), the student is responsible for assisting faculty members both inside and outside the classroom on projects related to the instruction of a particular course. TAs do not bear primary responsibility for the course; rather, their role is to assist faculty as necessary. The duties of a TA vary across courses and departments and may include: some classroom experience the presentation of occasional lectures leading discussion sections preparing and supervising labs conducting tutorials holding office hours grading papers, problem sets, quizzes, and examinations Departments make every effort to assign graduate students to courses according to their interests, broadly defined; however, the need to cover courses and to broaden student teaching experiences may also affect teaching assignments. A full appointment usually requires at least 18 hours of work per week, but should not exceed a maximum of 20 hours per week in any given week. Appointments are made on an annual or semester basis on the recommendation of the program. Double appointments are not allowed. Doctoral students who serve as Teaching Assistants receive tuition, health insurance, the health services fee, and a stipend. Teaching Fellows Teaching fellows are advanced students with teaching experience who are responsible for the design and teaching of their own course. Eligibility for Teaching Fellows varies across departments. Appointments are made by the Graduate School on the basis of departmental recommendations. Doctoral students who serve as Teaching Fellows receive tuition, health insurance, the health services fee, and a stipend that is slightly higher than the stipend received by TAs. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Tuition & Fees Health and Dental Insurance Financial Considerations Master's Funding Ph.D. Funding Internal Funding & Appointments Student Loans Student Employment Student Payroll Procedures Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Processing Payments to Students Instructional Project Development English Language and Acculturation Training Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants