Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Life at Penn / Health & Wellness Health & Wellness Home to a world-class medical, dental, nursing, and veterinary school, Penn is deeply dedicated to high quality patient care, research, and the advancement of interdisciplinary science. The University is also committed to providing the support, resources, and practical tools to ensure the wellness of its community. Medical Service Providers University of Pennsylvania Health System Penn Medicine’s central source for information, including physician directories, directions to facilities, online appointment scheduling, and health advice from one of the best hospital systems in the U.S. Penn Dental Medicine Penn Dental provides compassionate, comprehensive dental care with dentists in every specialty. Read more about making an appointment, fees and insurance, how clinics work, and much more. Penn Nursing Ranked as the best nursing school in the world, Penn Nursing advances the entire nursing profession, from research and practice to policy, and delivers high quality health services through community engagement throughout the region. OncoLink® The award-winning comprehensive online cancer resource from the Abramson Cancer Center at Penn. Veterinary Care Facilities Matthew J. Ryan Veterinary Hospital Penn Vet’s Ryan Hospital provides clinical services and around-the-clock emergency care for dogs, cats, and other domestic/companion animals. New Bolton Center Penn Vet’s large animal facility features one of the world’s biggest equine surgical facilities, a critical care center, a dairy, a laboratory for aquatic animal research, and one of Pennsylvania’s three animal diagnostic laboratories. Wellness at Penn Wellness at Penn is dedicated to keeping students well and ready to achieve in all aspects of life. COVID-19 Information Visit Penn’s COVID-19 Response page to learn more about Penn’s campus-wide efforts to create a safe environment and to reduce the spread of COVID-19 throughout the community. Stress, Distress, and Crisis (Counseling & Psychological Services) Moderate, short-lived stress can improve performance, but can become unhealthy when it disrupts our day-to-day functioning. Stress can turn into distress when the demands we experience exceed our resources to cope. Student Health Service Student Health is a state-of-the-art primary care center dedicated to the health and well-being of Penn students. Student Health provides accessible, cost-effective, culturally-sensitive, and student-focused healthcare, including care for acute and chronic health problems, preventive health services, and health and wellness education. Student Counseling (Counseling & Psychological Services) Student Counseling provides professional psychological and psychiatric services to undergraduate, graduate, and professional students who need support in fulfilling their academic, social, and personal objectives. Along with health and wellness partners throughout the Penn community, Student Counseling directly supports student mental health through counseling, crisis management, consultation, education and outreach, and training. Campus Health Part of Student Health Service, Campus Health seeks to empower the Penn community to Live Well through advocacy, education, and action. Campus Health staff focus on a wide variety of healthy living topics including sleep, hygiene, stress reduction, nutrition, exercise, tobacco-free lifestyles and bike safety. Alcohol and Other Drug Policies and Initiatives Includes initiatives and policies about alcohol use, violence prevention, data collection, strategic project management, and (in a collaboration with Student Intervention Services) proactive crisis management. Immunization and Health Insurance Compliance The University of Pennsylvania requires students to meet certain health requirements, including carrying adequate health insurance coverage and immunization against diseases. Insurance and immunization information can be completed by students using online forms. More campus resources via Wellness at Penn Contact Us Wellness at Penn 3535 Market Street Philadelphia PA 19104 (215) 746-9355 Wellness News Making a game of it: Contests help new moms increase their steps April 26, 2022 Feeling foggy? Your head is in the clouds for a reason March 16, 2022 How to safeguard your sleep from insomnia over COVID-19 worry March 4, 2022 People and Places at Penn: Winter solace March 2, 2022 More Wellness News Explore Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement Diversity Groups & Organizations Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Penn & Philadelphia Safety & Security Spirituality & Religion Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top