Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Leadership Leadership Vice President VP's Leadership Team Diversity Officer Student Advisory Board Student Reps to BOT Committees Programs Programs Special Funding Student Boulevard Guidelines Courageous Change Leader Award Hilltop Excellence Awards Resources Resources Student Event Guidelines Student Values Statement Off Campus Party Registration Alcohol Request Form Student Employment Employment Opportunities Strategic Direction Get Help ☰ Student Affairs Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs Dr. K.C. Mmeje (he/him/his) Dr. Mmeje became Vice President for Student Affairs at Southern Methodist University in July 2017. In this role, he provides leadership and strategic vision for a network of 18 offices/departments tasked with supporting students. The Division of Student Affairs is comprised of 117 full-time professionals and has an annual operating budget in excess of $40M. Units housed within the division of student affairs include but are not included to the following: Residence Life and Student Housing, Student Health and Counseling Services, Campus Recreation, Student Conduct and Community Standards, Office of the Dean of Students, Office of the Student Experience, Student Involvement, Fraternity & Sorority Life, Office of Social Change & Intercultural Engagement, and the Women & LGBT Center, to name a few. Dr. Mmeje began his career in student affairs at the University of Vermont (UVM) in Burlington, where he served as Assistant Director of the Office of Judicial Affairs. Following his time at the UVM, he transitioned to the University of Southern California (USC), where he served for nearly eight years in several capacities including: as Assistant Director of Student Judicial Affairs and Community Standards, as Student Affairs Advisor and Special Projects Coordinator for the Vice President of Student Affairs, and as the inaugural Director of the Scholars Program, a grant-funded outreach and retention initiative serving local underrepresented, first-generation, and low-to moderate-income transfer students. His eight-year career with Loyola University Chicago (LUC) included service as Associate Dean of Student Life before his promotion to Assistant Vice President and Dean of Students in July 2013. Concurrently with his other duties, he also served as interim Director of the Department of Residence Life from 2015-16. He received his B.A. degree in Sociology and Black studies from the University of California at Santa Barbara. He earned a Master of Education degree in Higher Education Student Affairs Administration from the University of Vermont and his Ed.D. in Educational Leadership from USC. In addition, he holds a Certificate in Management and Leadership in Education from Harvard University’s Graduate School of Education. Dr. Mmeje is the recipient of the National Institute for the Study of Transfer Students’ (NISTS) 2013 Barbara K. Townsend Dissertation of the Year Award. His scholarly interests include: racial equity in higher education; access to and affordability of higher education; student success and retention, and ways in which programmatic interventions at two-year colleges provide at-risk students the support needed to successfully transfer to selective four-year colleges and universities. Learn more about the Division of Student Affairs Visit the website Explore Other Student Affairs Leaders Dr. Mindy Sutton Associate Vice President and Dean of Students Read My Bio Dr. Adam Cebulski Assistant Vice President and Chief of Staff Read My Bio Ashley Wendler Dean of RLSH ad Interim Learn About RLSH Rev. Lisa Garvin Chaplain and Minister to the University Read My Bio Dr. Crystal Clayton Executive Director of the Hegi Family Career Development Center Read My Bio Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share