Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Undergraduate Admission Xavier Home Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Menu Undergraduate Admission Tuition and Aid Contact Us Admission Process Drawing on a Jesuit Catholic educational model 400 years in the making, our faculty members engage each student as an individual. The result is a challenging education that rewards you for the rest of your life. Everyone takes the same first step – by applying. Here's some information to help you get started. More information for High School Counselors is also available. Application Steps Click on each step for more information Submit Your Application Apply using either the Xavier application or the Common Application. Xavier Application Common AppSubmit Test Scores - Optional Option 1 - Test Optional Xavier University offers test-optional admission. It is your choice to include ACT or SAT scores as part of your application. Indicate your choice within your application for admission. If you are considering this option, visit our Test Optional Admission FAQ and contact your admission counselor with questions. Option 2 - Submit Test Scores If you choose to submit your test scores, this requirement can be fulfilled in several ways: Official - Send SAT or ACT scores directly to Xavier from the testing service. Xavier's SAT code is 1965 and ACT code is 3366. Official – Send scores, with subscores, printed on official transcript. Official – Send scores sent to Xavier directly from your high school counselor. Submit Official High School Transcripts By mail to: Xavier University Office of Admission 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207-5131 OR By email (directly from your high school) to: xuadmit@xavier.edu . Recommended Curricular Requirements Four years of English Three years of mathematics Three years of science Three years of social sciences Two years of language study other than English Applicants must have earned a high school diploma or its equivalent at the time of enrollment and submit final, official transcripts affirming diploma and graduation date. Submit Counselor Recommendations Request that your high school counselor submit the Common Application School Report, along with a recommendation. Additional recommendations can be submitted, but we suggest no more than two in addition to your school counselor.Forward Previous College Credits If you have earned college credit while in high school, request the college, International Baccalaureate or Advanced Placement service which granted you credit to forward your official record to Xavier. These records are not required for initial admission consideration, but will be needed before enrollment in order to assign appropriate credit. Learn more about how Xavier awards college credit for IB and AP exams.Apply For Honors Programs and Competitive Scholarships Submit applications for Honors Programs and Competitive Scholarships by December 1 deadline.File the FAFSA The FAFSA, or Free Application for Federal Student Aid, is a form that is used by the U.S. Department of Education and the university to determine aid like scholarships, grants and loans, and work study eligibility. The 2022-2023 FAFSA is available beginning October 1. Submit your FAFSA by December 1 to receive a $500 Early Filers Grant. Learn more about the FAFSA. Deadlines Applications for admission to Xavier are considered on a rolling basis and decisions are typically shared with students within a month of completion of the application file. However, the dates below are important to consider. Admission Deadlines Application Type Deadline Notification by Application Deadline Rolling Within 1 month of application completion Nursing Rolling* Rolling Honors Rolling* Rolling Competitive Scholarships December 1 Varies FAFSA Early Filers Deadline December 1 December 20 Merit Scholarship Consideration February 1* Rolling *Applications received after the December 1 priority deadline will be considered on a space-available basis. Selective Admission Programs Some academic programs have additional requirements. Examples include Music, which has an audition requirement, and Nursing, which has more strict admission requirements. Visit our Selective Admission Programs page for a complete list. Additional Considerations Some applicants have an admission process that requires additional steps. Veterans Adult Students Accelerated BSN Transfers International Students Homeschooled Students Prospective Student Athletes Xavier University Notice of Non-Discrimination Title IX is the federal civil rights law that prohibits discrimination based on sex in all federally funded education programs and activities. In compliance with Title IX, Xavier University does not discriminate based on sex in any education or activity, including admission and employment. Sex discrimination includes sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence, stalking, harassment or discrimination based on pregnancy, parenting, sexual orientation and/or gender identity. Xavier University does not tolerate sex discrimination. If a student or employee believes they have experienced sex discrimination or has questions about Title IX, please contact Xavier’s Title IX and Interpersonal Violence Response Coordinator Kate Lawson at 332B Gallagher Student Center, 3800 Victory Parkway, Cincinnati, OH 45207, 513-745-3046, lawsonk1@xavier.edu or the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights at U.S. Dept. of Education, Office for Civil Rights, 400 Maryland Ave., SW, Washington, DC 20202, 800-421-3481, OCR@ed.gov. For free, confidential advocacy and support, contact Xavier’s Advocacy & Prevention Coordinator at 513-904-9013. Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram