Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022 Menu Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues Baylor>Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022>Along Fifth Street>Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Honoring Baylor's First Black Graduates Idaho-based sculptor Benjamin Victor was selected to create bronze life-sized statues of Robert Gilbert, B.A. ’67, and Barbara Walker, B.A. ’67 — Baylor’s first Black graduates. Victor was chosen through a competitive process in conjunction with Walker, the Gilbert family and Baylor’s Campus Experience Project Team, which is working through recommendations from the University’s Commission on Historic Campus Representations. Robert Gilbert, B.A. ’67, and Barbara Walker, B.A. ’67 Victor is the only living artist with three pieces in the National Statuary Hall at the U.S. Capitol. His first statue was dedicated to the Hall in 2005 when he was 26 years old, making him the youngest artist to have a piece in this collection. He will soon have a fourth piece in the Hall, depicting Daisy Bates of the Little Rock Nine. Baylor’s search for an artist to create these sculptures began in the summer of 2021. Victor said he jumped at the chance for this commission and that he wants to see “heroes like this put on a pedestal.” The statues of Gilbert and Walker will stand outside Tidwell Bible Building. They reflect the commitment of the University to thoughtfully consider and implement the Commission’s recommendation to use physical representations to better communicate the many contributions of Black students, faculty and staff throughout Baylor’s history. Vice President for Marketing and Communications Jason Cook, A.B.C. ’20, is co-chair of Baylor’s Campus Experience Project Team. “We believe Robert Gilbert and Barbara Walker truly embody who we are at Baylor — that sense of selfless service and how we give back as a Christian institution,” Cook said. After Baylor trustees desegregated the University in 1965, Gilbert earned a history degree with an English minor. He eventually became a pastor and died in 1992. Walker earned a sociology degree and spent much of her life in California, working in public mental health. She is now retired and lives in Arizona. Walker received Baylor’s 2017 Medal of Service for Contributions to the Professions, Christian Ministry. In a 2000 speech on Baylor’s campus, Walker challenged students to seize the opportunity set before them. “You have the privilege to learn and grow, not only in your field of study but, most importantly, to learn more about who God is and how He wants to use your life,” Walker said. Victor, who describes his ability to create works of art as “a gift from God,” consulted with Walker and the Gilbert family to determine how best to make the statues representative of the people they will depict. Designs have not yet been finalized, but Gilbert’s statue will hold a Bible, and Walker’s will feature her warm smile. Gilbert’s son Kenyatta Gilbert, B.A.’96, Ph.D., a homiletics professor at Howard University’s School of Divinity in Washington, D.C., said his father deeply admired Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and saw himself as someone who could speak to some of the social problems of the era. “He was always seeking to better the life of the least of these, which is very consistent with Dr. King’s vision,” Kenyatta said. “My father’s legacy lives on in people. Any minister who knew him would say they had gotten more courage and inspiration by looking at his life and how he lived it.” The statues will create a highly visible and welcoming message that all members of the Baylor Family are valued in fulfillment of the University’s Christian mission. Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues