More information will be posted here when it becomes available. Emergency215-573-3333 A-Z Directories Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Open menu Departments About Our Division Office of the Vice President Finance & Administration Fire & Emergency Services Penn Police Department PennComm & Emergency Communications Security Services Security Technology Special Services Emergency Preparedness PennReady UPennAlert Emergency Notification System Emergency Procedures Safety Initiatives HELP Line: 215-898-HELP Penn Guardian 24/7 Walking Escort Service DPS “Top 10 List” Penn Alternative Response Unit (AR-1) Operation Theft Awareness Self-Defense Courses Bicycle, Motor Vehicle, and Pedestrian Safety Information Clery Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Clery Crime Log CSA Crime Statistics Reporting Data Form Media Videos News and Events Photos Contact General Contact Information DPS Administration Directory Send Us Feedback Commend a Member of DPS Report a Crime Police Complaint Form Silent Witness Form Student Project Request Form Presentation Request Form Request a Special Property Check Menu Media Clery Contact Privacy Policy A-Z Directories Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Emergency Preparedness Be Prepared, Be PennReady! Emergency preparedness at the University of Pennsylvania is managed under the PennReady program. Being PennReady means to prevent, prepare for, respond to, and recover from all emergencies that could affect the Penn and University City communities. It also means: Having a comprehensive plan to prevent situations that cause emergencies. Preparing personnel on the procedures to follow should a crisis occur. Having a well collaborated response approach from University officials and City, State and Federal agencies to effectively mitigate any crisis. Being ready and able to recover quickly from emergency events to keep the mission of Penn actively moving forward. We at the Division of Public Safety implore all members of the Penn community to take an active role in the emergency preparedness initiative of the University. Be involved! Reach out to DPS to: Become a PennReady team member. Install AEDs in your building. Ensure your building has an emergency plan. Partner with DPS through educational presentations and drills. Watch the short video below to learn about key emergency procedures: Evacuate, Shelter-in-Place and Lockdown. Please take time to review this important part of our website and familiarize yourself with the many resources available to you here at Penn. UPennAlert Emergency Notification System Emergency Procedures Bulletins Crisis Management Plan Blue Book Program Emergency Procedures PennReady Emergency Team (PET) Automated External Defibrillator Emergency Drills Safety Guidelines and Requirements Quicklinks Emergency Preparedness 24/7 Walking Escort Theft Awareness RAD Self Defense Courses Penn Guardian UPennAlert Explore Departments Emergency Preparedness University of Pennsylvania Police Department (UPPD) Information and Statistics Safety Initiatives Report Accessibility Issues & Get Help Media Clery Contact Privacy Policy Connect with DPS Receive DPS Traffic Advisories Learn About Penn Guardian © 2016 The University of Pennsylvania. 4040 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 215.898.7297 | Contact Us Rotate Your Phone to Portrait Mode Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset