Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Learning Outcomes Home About Learning Outcomes Learning Outcomes Our three-step model—Explore, Prepare, Act —is designed to help students recognize where they are and what steps they need to take to achieve their goals. Our work is guided by this model and all of our services and programs relate back to these three steps. Review the following learning outcomes to understand what you should expect to learn from engaging in your career development during your time at Boston College. Remember that your career development is an ongoing, lifelong process of exploration and decision-making. You will revisit these steps throughout your time at Boston College and beyond. Explore: At this stage, you will dive deep to learn about yourself and find a path that aligns your individual skills, interests, and values with meaningful career opportunities. Explore Learning Outcomes Students will learn to: Describe 1-3 resources or strategies they can use to explore career fields. Identify 1-3 career fields that align with their interests that they would like to further explore. Identify 1-3 skills they hope to incorporate into their career paths that align with the skills employers are seeking in recent college graduates. Articulate how they will become a person for others in their industry of interest. Prepare At this stage, you will learn how to effectively present your experiences, skills, interests, and values to a potential employer or graduate school. Prepare Learning Outcomes Students will learn to: Identify the 9 Boston College career readiness competencies. Articulate at least one example of where they have developed each of the 9 career readiness competencies. Articulate 1-3 career interests or goals for their first post-graduate experience. Create a plan to develop skills and competencies required for a particular field of interest. Connect the skills, interests, and values they are gaining at Boston College to specific career opportunities of interest. Create application materials such as resumes, cover letters, LinkedIn profiles, and personal statements that articulate their experiences, skills, interests, and values. Verbally articulate how their experiences, skills, interests, and values relate to opportunities through networking conversations and/or interviews. Act At this stage, you will begin strategizing your search plan and start pursuing opportunities that align with your interests, skills, and values. Act Learning Outcomes Students will learn to: Identify 1-3 resources to help find specific jobs, internships, graduate school, or other career opportunities. Develop confidence in communicating with alumni and professionals. Learning Outcomes by Program The Career Center has designed learning outcomes for each one of our programs. Explore our learning outcomes to learn what to expect by participating in our programming. Programs and Events Career Coaching Upon conclusion of a career coaching discussion, you will feel you have made progress in addressing your current career questions and be able to: Identify 1-3 next steps in their career discernment and planning. In addition, depending on the content of your career coaching discussion, you may be able to: Describe 1-3 resources or strategies you can use to explore career fields. Identify 1-3 skills you hope to incorporate into your career paths that align with the skills employers are seeking in recent college graduates. Create a plan to develop skills and competencies required for a particular field of interest. Connect the skills, interests, and values you are gaining at Boston College to specific career opportunities of interest. Create application materials such as resumes, cover letters, LinkedIn profiles, and personal statements that articulate your experiences, skills, interests, and values. Verbally articulate how your experiences, skills, interests, and values relate to opportunities through networking conversations and/or interviews. Identify 1-3 resources to help you find specific jobs, internships, graduate school, or other career opportunities. Endeavor By the end of Endeavor, you will be empowered to take control of your career journey. In addition, you will be able to: Describe 1-3 resources or strategies you can use to explore career fields. Identify 1-3 career fields that align with your interests that you would like to further explore. Identify 1-3 skills they hope to incorporate into their career paths that align with the skills employers are seeking in recent college graduates. Identify the 9 Boston College career readiness competencies. Articulate at least one example of where you have developed each of the 9 career readiness competencies. Create a plan to develop skills and competencies required for a particular field of interest. Connect the skills, interests, and values you are gaining at Boston College to specific career opportunities of interest. Develop confidence in communicating with alumni and professionals. Identify 1-3 next steps in your career discernment and planning. Designing Your Career course Upon completion of the course, you will be able to: Identify at least one career field that aligns with your interests that you would like to further explore. Identify at least one skill you hope to incorporate into your career paths that aligns with the skills employers are seeking in recent college graduates. Identify at least one career resource available to you given your current career needs. Articulate 1-3 next steps in your career discernment and planning. Alumni Job Shadow and Experiential Learning After participating in the Alumni Job Shadow program, you will be able to: Describe 1-3 resources or strategies you can use to explore career fields. Identify 1-3 skills they hope to incorporate into your career paths that align with the skills employers are seeking in recent college graduates. Articulate how you will become a person for others in your industry of interest. Create a plan to develop skills and competencies required for a particular field of interest. Connect the skills, interests, and values you are gaining at Boston College to specific career opportunities of interest. Develop confidence in communicating with alumni and professionals. Identify 1-3 next steps in your career discernment and planning Career Fairs and Networking Nights After participating in a career fair or networking event, you will be able to: Identify 1-3 career fields that align with their interests that they would like to further explore. Verbally articulate how their experiences, skills, interests, and values relate to opportunities through networking conversations and/or interviews. Develop confidence in communicating with alumni and professionals. Campus Recruitment By participating in on campus recruitment activities such as on campus interviews and employer information sessions, you will learn to: Verbally articulate how their experiences, skills, interests, and values relate to opportunities through networking conversations and/or interviews. Develop confidence in communicating with alumni and professionals. Eagle Intern Fellowship By participating in the Eagle Intern Fellowship program, you will be able to: Identify 1-3 skills you hope to incorporate into your career paths that align with the skills employers are seeking in recent college graduates. Articulate how you will become a person for others in your industry of interest. Connect the skills, interests, and values you are gaining at Boston College to specific career opportunities of interest. Identify 1-3 next steps in your career discernment and planning. Praxis Summer Program In addition to strengthening specific career skills, upon completion of the Praxis Summer Program, you will be able to: Describe 1-3 resources or strategies you can use to explore career fields. Identify 1-3 career fields that align with your interests that you would like to further explore. Identify 1-3 skills you hope to incorporate into your career paths that align with the skills employers are seeking in recent college graduates. Identify the 9 Boston College career readiness competencies. Articulate at least one example of where you have developed each of the 9 career readiness competencies. Create a plan to develop skills and competencies required for a particular field of interest. Connect the skills, interests, and values you are gaining at Boston College to specific career opportunities of interest. Create application materials such as resumes, cover letters, LinkedIn profiles, and personal statements that articulate your experiences, skills, interests, and values. Verbally articulate how your experiences, skills, interests, and values relate to opportunities through networking conversations and/or interviews. Identify 1-3 resources to help find specific jobs, internships, graduate school, or other career opportunities. Develop confidence in communicating with alumni and professionals. Identify 1-3 next steps in your career discernment and planning. Trivium Summer Program for Graduate Students In addition to strengthening specific career skills, upon completion of the Praxis Summer Program, you will be able to: Describe 1-3 resources or strategies you can use to explore career fields. Identify 1-3 career fields that align with your interests that you would like to further explore. Identify 1-3 skills you hope to incorporate into your career paths that align with the skills employers are seeking in recent college graduates. Identify the 9 Boston College career readiness competencies. Articulate at least one example of where you have developed each of the 9 career readiness competencies. Create a plan to develop skills and competencies required for a particular field of interest. Connect the skills, interests, and values you are gaining at Boston College to specific career opportunities of interest. Create application materials such as resumes, cover letters, LinkedIn profiles, and personal statements that articulate your experiences, skills, interests, and values. Verbally articulate how your experiences, skills, interests, and values relate to opportunities through networking conversations and/or interviews. Identify 1-3 resources to help find specific jobs, internships, graduate school, or other career opportunities. Develop confidence in communicating with alumni and professionals. Identify 1-3 next steps in your career discernment and planning. Quick Links Make an Appointment Event Calendar Programs and Events Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College