Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Engineering & Computer Science Main Navigation Departments Centers Current Students Future Students Services & Resources Employment News & Events Giving Contact Us Women in Computer Science and Engineering Women in Computer Science and Engineering -WiCSE- at California State University Fullerton is a program to help freshmen and new transfer students succeed in pursuing their engineering and computer science degrees. We offer events to connect with industry professionals both at CSUF and site visits to local companies. The program also aims to increase student success with academic support such as tutoring, and strengthens community among all STEM students. Our main page is located on Canvas Communities: Women in Computer Science and Engineering. Announcements will also be available on our social media and in announcements in Canvas. To learn more about WiCSE, consider viewing this page maintained by our student community. You can also learn more by emailing the WiCSE faculty coodinator, Beth Harnick-Shapiro at Beth.Harnick.Shapiro@fullerton.edu. She will be happy to meet with you. DIVERSITY AND LEADERSHIP SUMMIT Please join us for the Virtual Diversity and Leadership Summit in Spring 2022 on March 4th and 5th. Find out more at https://sites.google.com/csu.fullerton.edu/ecssummit EMAIL US WITH ANY QUESTIONS: ecs.summit@gmail.com Follow us on Social Media for Announcements and Information! Email: wicse.csuf@gmail.com Twitter: @csuf_wicse Instagram: @ wicse_csuf Google Website: https://sites.google.com/view/wicse/ Access Canvas Communities: If you'd like to be added as a WiCSE member contact the WiCSE faculty coordinator: beth.harnick.shapiro@fullerton.edu. Visit the CSUF homepage and log into CSUF Portal. Click 'Canvas' then accept your invitation. "Women in Computer Science and Engineering" should show up if you're added as a participant. For information and events click on the side panel links or browse our page. This site is maintained by Engineering & Computer Science. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ecswebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.