Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Commencement Office Apply to Graduate Graduates Accommodations Diplomas Guests Faculty Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Diplomas Reorder Diplomas Diploma Mailing Schedule Request pickup or send designee Diploma Corrections Apostile/Notary of Diploma Diploma Framing Take Action Current News Commencement Attendance Form Commencement Live Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutube Home Commencement Office Diplomas Duplicate Diplomas PICK UPS have been suspended indefinitely. All reorders will be mailed upon receipt. RECENT GRADUATES: This process is only for duplicate diplomas. If you are a recent graduate (within 1 year) and have not received your diploma after 3 months from your graduation date, email us at commencement@memphis.edu to inquiry. DUPLICATE COPIES: The duplicate diploma process takes 2-3 weeks to process. Please understand this prior to making orders. We currently do not offer digital prints of diplomas. We are unable to provide diplomas same day or earlier than the above mentioned lead time. Duplicate diplomas are available for those who obtained degrees/certificates only. Second majors do not receive additional diplomas with a new date. You can order a duplicate diploma, but understand, it will state the original degree date only. Majors are not reflected on the bachelor diploma. If you need a diploma for apostile or notary you have to order the diploma early so you can meet your personal deadline. If you decide to pay for overnight/FedEx expedited shipping, please understand this takes place once the diploma arrives back in the office. The diploma takes approximately 2-3 weeks to arrive in the office. We do NOT ship diplomas via FedEx Internationally, or to Hawaii and Alaska. There is a $20 fee (non-refundable) for diploma reorders/duplicate copies. Once you complete the form you will have the option to pay on-line. We do not accept cash. Before placing an order, please ensure you do not have a Financial Hold with the University and that you have graduated from the University of Memphis. We cannot provide copies to students with financial obligations to the University of Memphis or who have not graduated from this University. We provide duplicate copies to graduates of the University of Memphis only. The fee is non-refundable. Once we receive your reorder request, it will take no less than two weeks for our vendor to process your diploma (Research, Financial Hold Obligations and or other factors could cause further delay). If you need a duplicate of your diploma, we highly recommend ordering it several weeks before your personal deadline. When we receive your diploma from our vendor we will mail it to you as you specify on the form (standard or expedited shipping (once the diploma returns to the office from the vendor), or you are welcome to pick it up at our office. If you are picking up your diploma in person, please make sure you bring a photo ID. If you would like to specify another individual to pick up your diploma, you must provide documentation to the Commencement Office by emailing us at commencement@memphis.edu. No diploma will be given to anyone except the graduate without emailed permission to release. International diploma reorders will be mailed standard shipping only. FedEx overnight shipping is available to USA residences only (excludes Hawaii, Alaska and International) for an extra $18.00 and is non-refundable. FedEx occurs once the diploma is back in the office, after the two week lead time. No diploma is available next day or same day of order. Standard lead time on all diploma orders is two weeks from the day of order. If you live outside of the USA, the fast way to receive your diploma may be to indicate "Pick up" on your order form, ask someone who lives in the Memphis area to pick it up for you, then have that person mail it to you expedited mail. In order for us to release your diploma to someone else, we require an authorization email from you granting us permission and the name of the person who will be picking it up. Name Changes. If your name has changed or you would like to order an additional (duplicate) copy of your diploma because of a change in name, former name, etc., please understand that we follow Name Change practices and you may be required to do an official name change with the University. Before placing your order, you may want to contact our office to ensure your diploma will be ordered with the name you prefer and if not, how to go about changing your name. DIPLOMA SIZES Bachelor: 14 across x 11 down Masters: 14 x 11 Doctoral: 14 x 17 Juris Doctor (law): 14 x 17 Joint BioMedical: 14 x 17 Graduate Certificate: 8.5 x 11 What is on the diploma? Student’s name College or School Name University Name Date of Graduation Academic honors (if earned) College honors (if earned) Departmental honors (if earned) Instructions to order a duplicate copy of your diploma Visit the Diploma Reorder Form We suggest using Browser: Google Chrome when completing the form. Pay $20.00 (non-refundable) online using credit card on a secure website or mail-in payment (make checks payable to the University of Memphis). Mail-In Payments take additional processing time. We must receive payment before ordering. Fill out one form per degree (for example, BA and MA). Each reordered diploma will state "Duplicate" at the bottom, centered portion of the diploma. (Please disable pop-up blocker if applicable. Form will open in a new window) Important: Please note that a returned check or credit card service fee is $30. This fee applies to each check/draft or credit card returned unpaid by your financial institution. This fee will be assessed if a keying error on your part results in your financial institution's failure to honor the draft. Diplomas are considered state documents and must be provided to the graduate or a designee by the graduate (see above). Pick Ups: Pick ups of diplomas, covers, etc. must be scheduled individually and pick ups are only available from our office 9:00 am-3:00 pm Tuesday-Thursdays, weekly. Please understand that during peak event times we are unavailable in our office, so it is highly recommended to call us prior to coming by. Lambuth campus diploma inquiries We are sorry, but there is no way to provide a copy or duplicate of a Lambuth University diploma, since the University is now closed. However, the current University of Memphis Lambuth campus does keep Lambuth academic records and you can request proof of graduation by obtaining a transcript, very easily. The transcript request form found online at Former Lambuth University Students and fax it to (731) 425-1916 or you can speak with Ann Childs at (731) 425-1988. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/14/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.