Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > February 26, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff February 26, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution Dear Colleagues, Vaccinations are continuing today, February 26th. The Armory site is open for scheduled appointments, as well as for CUIMC employees as below. We wanted to share a few links with you including some upcoming live sessions. Community Immunity: A Rap Anthology about Vaccines, featuring Grammy award-winning rapper Darryl DMC McDaniels of Run-DMC, aims to increase COVID-19 vaccine coverage in communities of color. This series was created by Hip Hop Public Health, a community outreach organization founded by Columbia neurologist and member of our committee Olajide Williams, MD. Today February 26th, the FDA’s Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee will meet in open session to discuss the emergency use authorization of the Janssen/Johnson and Johnson COVID-19 vaccine. On Sunday February 28th and Monday March 1st, CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices will have an emergency meeting about the Janssen/Johnson and Johnson COVID-19 vaccine. On Tuesday March 2nd, CDC will hold a conference call for clinicians, “What Clinicians Need to Know About the Janssen COVID-19 Vaccine.” CDC experts will discuss the vaccine’s characteristics and administration, vaccinating special populations, contraindications, and more. Zoom and dial in instructions are here. CUIMC Employees First doses: Employees of Columbia, Weill Cornell and NYP who are in category 1a (patient facing) now receive the first dose of the vaccine at the Armory at the hours posted here COVID Vaccine Information page. Second doses of the Pfizer vaccine: CUIMC employees may go to the Armory for second dose Pfizer vaccinations during hours of operation, Tuesday – Saturday, 7 am to 9 pm. All faculty and staff age 65 or older are eligible to get their first dose at any of the NYC or NYS public vaccination sites, or at the Armory as long as they are NYC residents. Faculty and staff with eligible medical conditions are eligible to get their first dose at any of the NYC or NYS public vaccination sites or at the Armory through their regular appointment system if they reside in NYC, when appointments become available. Appointment information will updated on the VaccineTogetherNY website. Patient and Community Vaccinations at the Armory All persons age 18 and over with certain underlying chronic medical conditions are eligible to receive the vaccine. Please click here for more information. The Armory began vaccinating patients in this category starting on February 23. Letters were sent to Columbia, NYP and Weill Cornell patients. Information is updated as it becomes available on the VaccineTogetherNY website. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) The FAQ documents on the CUIMC COVID Vaccine Information page continue to be updated, so please check the site for the latest versions. As of today, over 47,000 faculty, staff, and students at NewYork-Presbyterian, Weill Cornell, and Columbia have received their first dose of the vaccine and more than 41,000 have received second doses. This includes over 30,000 first and second doses administered on the CUIMC campus alone. Below is the Question of the Day: Can an inpatient get a COVID vaccine? At NYP, COVID-19 vaccinations are currently only being administered to patients at the 168th Street Armory. Based on limited vaccine supply, New York State has prioritized vaccination at mass vaccination sites where vaccine can be administered most efficiently to the largest number of eligible individuals. Subacute and long-term nursing facilities have processes in place to provide vaccination to their residents as well. Thank you and stay safe! Magda Sobieszczyk MD, MPH Chief of Infectious Diseases and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Melissa Stockwell MD, MPH Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top