By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Net Price Calculator More from this Section Bill vs. COA Net Price Calculator Estimate your eligibility for financial aid and learn about college costs. Many families are surprised to learn that a Syracuse education can be more affordable than they expected. The Net Price Calculator is a great planning tool. It provides an early indication of how much and what types of financial aid you might qualify for. No matter where you are in the college planning process, you’ll be able to make more informed decisions about when and how much to save. Estimate your aid What You’ll Need 20-30 minutes Basic information about your family’s financial situation Recent tax forms and pay stubs Before You Begin Prior to utilizing the Net Price Calculator, please read the following helpful information. The estimate produced using this net price calculator does not represent the actual net price you will have to pay to attend Syracuse University. Instead, it is an estimate designed to help you understand what the approximate net price you will have to pay to attend Syracuse University is likely to be. Many factors affecting the actual net price you will have to pay can vary in the future including the University’s charges for attendance; the amount and availability of University-provided financial aid; the amount and availability of financial aid provided to students by the government and others; the amount of and availability of financial aid provided to the University by the government and others; economic conditions; etc. The amounts that are reflected during your use of this calculator similarly are estimates. They are not a final determination or actual award of financial assistance to you. The only way you will know for certain what it will cost to attend Syracuse University, what financial aid you will receive, and what net amount you will have to pay is by applying for admission, completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and all other applications required for financial aid for which you may be eligible, and receiving official notification of your admission and the financial aid you are awarded. Thus the estimate and all other information produced using this calculator shall not be binding upon the Secretary of the United States Department of Education, Syracuse University, the State of New York, or any other person, government, or entity nor shall they have liability of any kind related to them, and you shall have no legal claim of any sort against them, or any of them, with respect to the estimate and all other information produced using this calculator. For more information on applying for federal student aid, please go to the Federal Student Aid website . Need Help? An experienced Syracuse University financial aid specialist is never more than a call or click away . Related Pages Your Bill vs. Cost of Attendance When determining how much financial assistance you might need, the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs looks at a bigger picture. Loan Calculator Use the repayment estimator to help you choose which loans you want. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy