Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Report An Incident Crime Alerts Blue Light Services About the Department Toggle the sub-menu Department Directory Internal Affairs Fingerprinting Services Lost and Found Lost and Found Locations Crime Prevention Careers and Recruitment Event Security and Planning Blue Light Services Campus Safety & Security Toggle the sub-menu Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC) Access Control Homecoming Weekend Emergency Mass Notification RAVE Guardian app Traffic Safety Commercial Vehicle Pickups and Deliveries Commencement Weekend Child Safety Seat Program Other Campus Resources Campus Watch Toggle the sub-menu Annual Security Report Crime Statistics Campus Security Authorities (CSAs) Crime Definitions and Clery Geography Timely Warnings (Crime Alerts) Daily Crime Log Cornell Police Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter About the Department Toggle the sub-menu Department Directory Internal Affairs Fingerprinting Services Lost and Found Lost and Found Locations Crime Prevention Careers and Recruitment Event Security and Planning Blue Light Services Campus Safety & Security Toggle the sub-menu Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC) Access Control Homecoming Weekend Emergency Mass Notification RAVE Guardian app Traffic Safety Commercial Vehicle Pickups and Deliveries Commencement Weekend Child Safety Seat Program Other Campus Resources Campus Watch Toggle the sub-menu Annual Security Report Crime Statistics Campus Security Authorities (CSAs) Crime Definitions and Clery Geography Timely Warnings (Crime Alerts) Daily Crime Log Campus Safety & Security Campus Safety & Security Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC) Access Control Homecoming Weekend Emergency Mass Notification RAVE Guardian app Traffic Safety Commercial Vehicle Pickups and Deliveries Commencement Weekend Child Safety Seat Program HomeCampus Safety & SecurityCommencement Weekend Commencement Weekend commencement.cornell.edu The safety and security of all graduates and their guests is of great importance to Cornell University. The following security measures will be in effect throughout Commencement Weekend ceremonies and events. We thank you in advance for your cooperation with these important precautions. The following items and activities are PROHIBITED in Schoellkopf Stadium: Firearms or weapons of any kind; Any knife with a fixed blade or a blade larger than 4 inches; Fireworks or other explosive material; Hard coolers or coolers/bags on wheels; Pets (Service dogs will be permitted); Smoking; Mace, pepper spray, or similar substances; Glass containers, unless necessary for baby formula or medication. Commencement Weekend enhanced security procedures are as follows: Cornell University Police and professional security personnel will monitor all entry points to Schoellkopf Stadium during Convocation and Commencement ceremonies. All bags and persons will be subject to screening when entering Schoellkopf Stadium. Please consider the appearance of some objects, such as key ring tools/accessories, and leave anything that could be perceived as dangerous at home or in your hotel room. We are not able to provide a storage area for these items; prohibited items listed above will be removed and not returned. Unruly, disruptive or illegal behavior is prohibited. Any guest who acts in an unsafe manner, presenting hazard or risk to persons or property, may be subject to ejection, revocation of future venue privileges, and arrest and prosecution in accordance with New York state and local laws and ordinances. Explosive detection dogs from the Cornell University Police will sweep specific venues and open areas, including checkpoint areas. Anyone who sees anything suspicious should immediately contact the Cornell University Police at 607-255-1111. For our visitors… Your safety is a top priority, and we want to ensure that you have every available tool to keep you informed about emergency situations that may occur on campus. While here, you can sign up to receive text notifications in the event of an imminent threat to the campus community. CornellALERT messages may be sent for natural incidents such as a tornado or other dangerous weather, unnatural events such as an explosive device or active shooter, or if the University changes its operating status due to an emergency or weather event. To enroll your cellphone to receive text messages, text “CornellVisitor” to 226787. On August 1st of each year, there will be a system generated “stop” at which point you will need to re-enroll. You can stop receiving messages at any time by texting “stop” to 226787. SHARE Cornell's sexual harassment and assault response and education resources. Mental Health at Cornell A wide range of resources are available to support the mental health and well-being of Cornell University students, staff, and faculty. Silent Witness Program A confidential, secure way to report non-emergency criminal activity. Report a Crime Cornell University Police Department 117 Statler Drive G2 Barton Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 255-1111 Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, Contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2022 Cornell University