COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Biomedical Engineering, Doctorate DoctorateBiomedical Engineering All Programs College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering Wichita State’s Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in biomedical engineering will prepare you for high-paying, high-demand careers designing the medical technology of the future. You’ll have access to state-of-the-art biomedical engineering labs and the chance to work with faculty and industry professionals on campus and throughout Kansas’ largest city. Learn how biomedical engineering is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission to any Ph.D. program in engineering requires: The completion, or near completion, of a master’s degree in engineering or physical science Submission of scores for the General Test of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) Completion of prerequisite courses for some students Recommendation by the department chairperson to the graduate dean for admission Admission requirements Inside the Program Students and faculty create smart skin biomed sensor Student and faculty researchers at Wichita State are creating a smart skin biomedical sensor that could someday be used by NASA. If the sensor does what they expect, it would be able to measure multiple physiological parameters that NASA is interested in, including blood flow, intercranial pressure, blood health, blood gas levels and muscle degeneration. Curriculum The Ph.D. in biomedical engineering consists of 72 credit hours, including core courses, a biomedical engineering seminar and a dissertation. View the curriculum Careers Whether you’re pursuing a promotion or preparing for a Ph.D., WSU’s vast industry connections, research opportunities and unmatched facilities create an environment for our engineering students to gain the expertise that leads to dream careers. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©