Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission Visit Admission Events Admission Events Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Interested in SMU? Attend one of our events! Attend one of our events! Academic Spotlights Highlights of these virtual events include an in-depth look at the school or college of your interest as well as SMU as a whole and the ability to hear from school or college students, staff, and faculty on topics like admission, majors, and professional opportunities. Mustang Days These events give you a 360° view of SMU in a virtual setting. Get the inside track on admission, scholarships, financial aid, and campus life. Throw your toughest questions at our student panel, and let our deans and professors tell you everything you want to know about our academic programs. Parents are welcome. Transfer Preview Experience what it is like to be an SMU Mustang! Learn about SMU's transfer admission process, get information about academic programs, financial aid, and learn about campus life. In addition, you will receive information about course transferability and scholarship consideration. SpringFest SpringFest is an introduction to SMU and the college admission process. You will have the opportunity to take a campus tour, attend an information session with insights on the application process, scholarships and financial aid, get in-depth information about the academic school of your choice, and hear real-life perspectives from current SMU students. Previews Will give prospective students a robust look at SMU. The program will include information from SMU staff members about the admission process, financial aid, scholarships, student life, and academic programs. We will also share why Dallas is a great place to be and what makes an SMU degree so valuable. Please note that these events are for prospective students (students that have not applied and been admitted yet). If you have been admitted to SMU, please check your email for information on admitted student events. Questions about an event? Email ugadmission@smu.edu or call or 214-768-2058. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search