Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Hiroo Takayama Appointed Chief of Adult Cardiac Surgery March 15, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email Hiroo Takayama, MD, PhD, has been named chief of adult cardiac surgery at Columbia University’s Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons and NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Takayama, who joined the Columbia faculty in 2010, is the Morris and Rose Milstein Associate Professor of Surgery and co-director of the Columbia Aortic Center and the Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Center. Hiroo Takayama Through over 20 years of experience, Takayama has developed an international reputation treating all forms of heart and aortic problems. He is particularly known for his skill in open and endovascular aortic surgery, minimally invasive mitral valve repair, and myectomy for obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. “Hiroo is what people call a ‘surgeon’s surgeon,’” says Emile Bacha, MD, chief of the Division of Cardiac, Thoracic, and Vascular Surgery. “He is one of the few surgeons in the Northeast to take on highly complex cases. His unending energy shows as he works late into the night in the OR.” As chief, Takayama plans to extend the multidisciplinary spirit that has come to define his career at Columbia. In partnership with vascular surgeon Virendra Patel, MD, he built Columbia’s Aortic Center, where the two surgeons work collaboratively on complex cases. “Dr. Takayama is one of best cardiac surgeons of his generation,” says Craig Smith, MD, chair of the Department of Surgery. “He has a great gift for collaboration. We are privileged to have him.” Related: A New Way of Approaching the Aorta The Aortic Center at Columbia brings cardiac and vascular surgeons together to offer patients every possible option. Read more. In addition to his clinical achievements, Takayama is known for his teaching; in 2012 he received the American Association of Thoracic Surgery’s most prestigious national education honor, the Dr. Dwight C. McGoon Award. His research has been supported by national grants and he has authored over 200 publications. Takayama attended medical school and completed his internship at the University of Tokyo. He completed his general surgery residency at the University of Washington and a cardiothoracic surgery fellowship at CUIMC/NYP. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top