Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Alumni Relations Events and Virtual Engagement Alumni Communities Alumni All-Card Giving to Xavier Xavier Home Alumni Relations Menu Events and Virtual Engagement Alumni Communities Alumni All-Card Giving to Xavier ALL FOR ONE. Welcome to Xavier’s online community. It’s the place for you to stay connected — to your school and to your classmates. Here, we’ll tell you about all of the great things happening at your alma mater. Remember how much fun, and how many memories you made at X? Take a look around and explore all of the ways you can connect with us. Upcoming Events We think being an alumnus is about staying connected. Webinars. Social gatherings. Live streams. Here, you’ll find those events and more. Follow the Xavier alumni social media accounts to stay up to date on all of our upcoming events. Full event list What Kind of Benefits do Alumni Have? With your Alumni ALL Card, you can take advantage of a wide variety of national and local discounts on everything from cultural and amusement destinations to technology and home improvement. Consider letting Xavier know what you’re up to by submitting and reading Class Notes. You can also support a fellow Musketeer by shopping from the Alumni Business Directory. Please see information about the termination of Alumni Xavier.edu email accounts. Full list of alumni benefits Get Involved As alumni, there are more than 76,000 graduates living in dozens of states and countries around the world, but they all call Xavier home. We have a community for everyone: Get Involved in Your Local Alumni Chapter The Black Alumni Association LatinX and Hispanic Alumni LGBTQIA+ Alumni Community Become a Career Mentor to a Current Xavier Student Remember — as Musketeers, we are truly All for One and One for All. Invest in Xavier Your donation to Xavier University allows us to prepare men and women for others, keep tuition costs down and provide scholarships and financial aid. Here are some ways you can invest in Xavier today: Learn About Giving to Xavier Give Now and Support the Future of Xavier University Alumni Services As a member of the Xavier Alumni community, we are at your service. On this page, we’ll provide several opportunities where you can benefit from the experts here at your University. We’ve always said a Musketeer never walks alone. It’s still true after you graduate. Request a Transcript Transcript Request Update My Information Update Info Alumni Business Directory View Alumni Owned Businesses Career Development Alumni Career Resources Contact the Alumni Association Send a message Meet the team Give now Connect with us: Connect on facebook Connect on twitter Connect on instagram Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram