Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Research Menu About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact Baylor>Research>About>Find A Researcher>Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 NSF CAREER Grant Winners In the world of high-level university research, one of the most meaningful honors a young faculty member can receive is a CAREER award—which makes Spring 2020 an historic time for Baylor research. Baylor’s aspiration to become a Tier 1 research university, as expressed in the strategic vision of Illuminate, charges faculty to conduct research marked by “quality, visibility and impact.” External funding grants, like the CAREER award, are a coveted sign that faculty members are doing just that. Highly-competitive, financially significant and professionally validating, CAREER awards demonstrate the scientific community’s belief in the productivity and further potential of a young researcher to address society’s biggest challenges. This year, a school-record four Baylor University professors earned CAREER awards from the National Science Foundation, a tangible sign of the excellence of the research taking place at Baylor and a statement of growth throughout the institution. Meet Baylor's 2020 National Science Foundation CAREER award recipients. Jun 25 2020 Kenny Befus—Reading the Clues in Minerals and Gemstones Kenny Befus, assistant professor of geosciences, is one of four Baylor faculty members to earn CAREER awards from the National Science Foundation this spring. Learn more about his research studying strains in minerals and gemstones as a record of geological forces. Jun 25 2020 Elyssia Gallagher—New Methods for Glycan Analysis Elyssia Gallagher, assistant professor of chemistry and biochemistry, is one of four Baylor faculty members to earn CAREER awards from the National Science Foundation this spring. Learn more about her novel research to devise new methods for analyzing the function of glycans and their impact on the body. Jun 25 2020 Stanley Ling—Developing a Tool for Fuel Efficiency Stanley Ling, assistant professor of mechanical engineering, is one of four Baylor faculty members to earn CAREER awards from the National Science Foundation this spring. Learn more about his expansive research studying and simulating fuel sprays to enable engineers to develop more efficient fuel injection systems. Jun 25 2020 Michael Scullin—Sleep, Education and Performance Michael Scullin, assistant professor of psychology and neuroscience, is one of four Baylor faculty members to earn CAREER awards from the National Science Foundation this spring. Learn more about his research studying the relationship between sleep and the ability to learn complex STEM materials. About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Download White Eye Detector (App Store) Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact