Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Office of University Communications Office of University Communications Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Forward Menu Main Nav BC Forward COVID Testing Back Back Close Updates Overview Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. Faculty & Staff Students & Parents Visitors COVID Testing Results COVID Testing Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Home Updates Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Updates Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. November 12, 2021 Dear Students: Boston College has added additional COVID-19 vaccination booster clinic dates in November and December. Eligible students who received the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine more than six months ago, or the Janssen/J&J vaccine more than two months ago can register for the booster shot via the link below. We encourage all students to receive a vaccination booster. https://www.appointmentquest.com/scheduler/2180061935?schedule=bostoncollegevaccineclinic The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) current eligibility requirements for a COVID-19 booster are listed below: People aged 18–64 years at increased risk for COVID-19 exposure and transmission because of occupational or institutional setting may get a booster shot based on their individual benefits and risks.   Adults aged 18–64 years who work or reside in certain settings (e.g., health care, schools, correctional facilities, and homeless shelters) may be at increased risk of being exposed to COVID-19, which could be spreading where they work or reside. Per CDC and FDA guidelines, eligibility for J&J/Janssen is over 18 years old and 2 months from prior vaccination. Per current CDC and FDA guidelines, eligibility for the Pfizer and Moderna booster includes those who are 65 and older, live/work in long-term care facilities, have underlying medical conditions, or are at higher risk of exposure to the virus because of their jobs, such as health care workers and teachers. Boston College has contracted with VaxinateRx and Healthcare Family Pharmacy for our COVID-19 booster clinic, which will take place in the Connell Recreation Center’s MAC Court. Their staff will confirm your eligibility at the site. The clinic will be open on the dates and times below: Tuesday, November 16 8:00 am - 2:00 pm Monday, November 29 8:00 am - 2:00 pm Tuesday, November 30 8:00 am - 2:00 pm Wednesday, December 1 8:00 am - 1:00 pm Monday, December 6 8:00 am - 1:00 pm Tuesday, December 14 8:00 am - 1:00 pm Wednesday, December 15 8:00 am - 1:00 pm Monday, December 20 8:00 am - 1:00 pm Booster shots are free, but you will need to have your insurance information available when booking your appointment. After successfully registering, you will receive a confirmation email from Info@VaxinateRx.com with a link to the consent form for your vaccination (check your spam folder if you do not receive this form). Please fill out, print, and bring the form to the clinic to receive your vaccination. You must bring your consent form and COVID-19 vaccination card to the site for verification. Once you receive a booster vaccine, please upload your updated vaccination card in the University Health Services Agora portal. To submit the vaccination card and dates through the Health Services Portal, please follow the steps below: Go to Agora Portal - Other Services - Health Services Select the IMMUNIZATION ICON on the Health Services portal. Choose via the “required” drop down the COVID vaccination booster icon, and record the vaccination booster date. Click SUBMIT to save. Take a picture of the vaccination card or document and save it on your computer or phone to upload into the Agora Health Services Portal (https://services.bc.edu), found under OTHER SERVICES. Choose the UPLOAD ICON and upload the picture under the COVID vaccination booster in the drop-down menu (Note: the drop-down menu is below the list of "documents available to upload"). Click SELECT FILE, choose the file that you are uploading and hit the UPLOAD button. Thank you for your ongoing efforts to help maintain the health and wellbeing of the BC community. Sincerely, Dr. Douglas Comeau Director, University Health Services and Primary Care Sport Medicine Dr. Douglas Comeau Director of University Health Services Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College