Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Start a movement Start A Movement We educate visionary artists, scholars and communications professionals ready to make an impact on the world around them. Our mission Challenge yourself to find your voice, hone your craft and make the world better. At Meadows, you'll start creating on day one. You’ll do more than prepare for the future at Meadows—you’ll shape it in your first year. We challenge each student to develop his or her gifts to the highest level. We challenge students to find their unique voices and to develop the highest level of craftsmanship. While message and craft are the foundations of art, at Meadows we also practice entrepreneurship, outreach and engagement because they make an artist employable and relevant. How to apply Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management and Arts Entrepreneurship Corporate Communication and Public Affairs Creative Computation Dance Design and Innovation Film and Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre 837f7i-xfWQ Video The Transformation of the Owen Arts Center The Meadows renovation project has more than $30 million of funding to build modern academic environments for SMU’s artists to feel inspired. There will be new spaces for the visual arts, art history and creative computation. Event Spotlight events Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Meadows Recognition Ceremony will be held in McFarlin Memorial Auditorium on Saturday, May 14, 2022 at 6:30 p.m. More Info Meadows News May 18, 2022 Meadows Celebrates the Class of 2022 Campus May 17, 2022 Students Mine Graduates for Career Tips in New Season of Podcast Series Faculty May 09, 2022 This Week At Meadows, May 9 – 15 This Week at Meadows Graduation! May 02, 2022 This Week At Meadows, May 2 – 8 This Week at Meadows View all news Upcoming Events View All Events Ready to Take the Next Step in Your Journey? Schedule a campus tour, talk to someone in the admissions office, or read one of our application guides for more information on how to apply. We're here to help. Apply now Visit Us Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search