<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → The HBS Community The HBS Community U.S. Ethnic Minorities Women LGBTQ+ Community Members of the Military International Students Partners and Families First-Generation Students Socioeconomic Inclusion → The HBS Community The HBS Community U.S. Ethnic Minorities Women LGBTQ+ Community Members of the Military International Students Partners and Families First-Generation Students Socioeconomic Inclusion At HBS, breakthrough moments can happen any time: in a late-night discussion among peers, during a journey along India's east coast, in service to a neighborhood nonprofit—or simply while relaxing in a Spangler lounge or competing on the tennis court. While formal education is concentrated within academics, the transformation of potential into leadership is realized through every aspect of the HBS experience. To explore student life here is to investigate multiple ways to learn, to connect, to lead. View Video “For me, HBS has been all about the people and the shared experience we’ve had.” A truly diverse student body is the foundation of the HBS experience. The case method classroom interaction is enriched by classmates from diverse industries, functions, countries, and experiences. This diverse community of students reflects a world of different talents, beliefs, and backgrounds. U.S. Ethnic Minorities → HBS is committed to increasing diversity and opportunity in business education. Women → Back in 1965 the first cohort of women graduated from HBS. Fast forward 50+ years, and the Class of 2023 is 46% female. LGBTQ+ Community → HBS provides a supportive and welcoming environment for LGBTQ+ students on campus. Members of the Military → HBS welcomes veterans of US and international military services. Every year, HBS classes include former members of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard. International Students → HBS students hail from all corners of the globe. 37% of the Class of 2023 is international (by citizenship). Partners and Families → For 30% of the student body, attending business school isn't a solo venture. Partners and children are integrated into every aspect of life at HBS. First-Generation Students → The First Gen+ community at HBS is emergent, multifaceted, and intersectional – and we are excited to welcome and support students in blazing a new trail and legacy for themselves and their families. Socioeconomic Inclusion → The socioeconomic backgrounds of our students reflect a dimension of diversity that adds depth and value to our classroom and student experiences. ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College