Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Psychological Research MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Psychological Research MS Apply Request More Info Psychological Research MS Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Psychological Research Study the ethics, statistics and methodologies inherent to the field of psychology with the Master of Science in Psychological Research in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. This accelerated master’s program is available to psychology majors who are interested in earning both the Bachelor of Arts in Psychology and the Psychological Research MS in just five years. Students apply to the program during the spring semester of their junior year. The highly selective Psychological Research MS provides a research-intensive experience that lays the groundwork for doctoral studies in any psychology discipline. Students immerse themselves in current research across disciplines by attending department colloquiums and lecture series. Advanced coursework provides a combination of new and traditional approaches to data analysis, methodology and theory. You'll conduct extensive information analysis in several state-of-the-art labs and facilities focused in research areas such as behaviorial, biological, cognitive and environmental psychology. Explore current psychology research in the College of Liberal Arts. Through a four-course culminating project, students prepare an extensive literature review and engage in research design, conduct and data analysis, resulting in a publishable paper. Program Format & Curriculum The 32-credit Psychological Research MS must be completed on a full-time basis over four semesters. Classes take place on Temple’s Main Campus. The program curriculum comprises core courses, research methodology courses, a professional development seminar, topical seminars and a master’s project. The master’s project allows students to participate in and contribute to their advisor’s program of research. Students collaborate with their advisors to develop a research proposal and analysis plan, and they become familiar with the methods, measures and research apparatus utilized in advisors’ labs. All students must complete the master’s project and submit their research for publication and/or presentation at a conference. Core courses include the following. Advanced Statistics Directed Research I-IV Ethics and Ethical Conflicts in Psychological Science Learn more about Psychological Research MS program requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Decision Neuroscience PhD Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS Psychology PhD Sociology MA Related Graduate Certificates Neuroscience Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Nicole Pileggi is the senior academic advisor for psychology. Phone: 215-204-3403 Email: nicole.pileggi@temple.edu Program Contacts For questions regarding the Psychological Research MS, contact the following staff member. Pamela Joyce Shapiro is the program director. Phone: 215-204-7321 Email: psychplus1.info@temple.edu Lauren McDuffie is the senior academic coordinator in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Phone: 215-204-7320 Email: lmcd@temple.edu The following faculty and staff members lead the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Peter Marshall is chair of the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Phone: 215-204-7360 Email: pjmarsh@temple.edu Peter James is the associate chair of the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Phone: 215-204-3409 Email: pjames@temple.edu Deborah Drabick is the director of graduate studies in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Phone: 215-204-0957 Email: deborah.drabick@temple.edu Veronica Holloway is the senior administrator in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Phone: 215-204-2644 Email: veronica.holloway@temple.edu Vanessa Allen-Smith is the graduate coordinator for the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Phone: 215-204-7667 Email: vallens@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Psychological Research MS coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. Psychology graduate students are encouraged to become involved with the Psychology Graduate Students for Inclusivity—a graduate student group aimed at promoting diversity and inclusivity in the Psychology and Neuroscience Department, in research and in clinical work. Learn more about the Psychology Graduate Students for Inclusivity student organization. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-PSYR-MS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Psychological Research MS Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info