Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Information Technology Main Navigation About IT Services Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff CEDA Software Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff Events & Projects IT Strategic Plan IT Governance The Division of Information Technology governance structure establishes the strategic, operational and technical decision-making process necessary to ensure an innovative, reliable and robust information technology. IT governance provides strategic leadership, establishes campus-wide IT priorities and policies in accordance with the University Strategic Plan. General responsibilities of it governance committees The IT governance structure as a whole is responsible for the following: Establishing and communicating a campus-wide IT vision that supports the University Strategic Plan Establishing IT policies that support strategic, campus-wide IT priorities Establishing an overall IT budget structure for total IT spend on campus Defining technical architecture and standards Establishing best practices and tools for IT Established IT Governance Committees IT Advisory Committee Senate Information Technology Committee Information Technology Technical Architecture Committee (TAC) This site is maintained by Division of Information Technology. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact helpdesk@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.