Skip to main content UTS: Promo Links COVID-19 Updates Get Involved Search terms Search icon University of Texas System Toggle navigation Primary Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices Breadcrumbs Home News Center Main page content Statement by Chancellor James B. Milliken on UT Arlington Interim President Teik C. Lim Wednesday, January 5, 2022 Social Sharing Links Share I applaud the New Jersey Institute of Technology’s Board of Trustees for its appointment today of Dr. Teik C. Lim as the university’s next president. Teik’s leadership and numerous accomplishments as an interim president, provost and chief academic officer, and mechanical and aerospace engineering professor at UT Arlington will align well with the mission of NJIT. During Teik’s interim presidency at UTA over almost two years, he very successfully led a large urban university by providing both stability and vision during a time of unprecedented challenge. Under Teik’s guidance, UT Arlington achieved the prestigious Texas Tier One designation, a recognition of UTA’s research and academic strength and ascendancy. As provost since 2017, Teik led successful faculty recruitment and collaboration, significant growth in research expenditures, and student success. He remained focused on ensuring that UT Arlington continue to expand its culture of innovation and its commitment to student access and diversity. UT Arlington is a better institution because of Teik, and the Board of Regents and I are profoundly grateful for his leadership and wish him all our best in his new post. Please see NJIT’s news release for more information about Dr. Lim’s new appointment. News Contact Information Karen Adler: kadler@utsystem.edu • 512-499-4360 (direct) • 210-912-8055 (cell) UT System Links and Contact Information Academic Institutions UT Arlington UT Austin UT Dallas UT El Paso UT Permian Basin UT Rio Grande Valley UT San Antonio UT Tyler Health Institutions UT Southwestern UTMB Galveston UTHealth UT Health San Antonio UT MD Anderson UT System About SmartBook Office of the Chancellor Board of Regents Administration Offices Directory UT4U Outlook Web Access Info Center COVID-19 Site Policy Library Regents' Rules & Regulations Reports to the State Audit Reports Privacy Statement Linking Notice Copyright Accessibility Open Records Resources Careers Document Library seekUT UT System Dashboard Contact UT System State Links State of Texas Fraud Reporting Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Statewide Search University of Texas System New footer logo © 2022 The University of Texas System. 210 West 7th Street, Austin, Texas 78701-2982. (512) 499-4200 The University of Texas System Menu × Primary Mobile Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices