HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation MANAGE MY ACCOUNT MY.CLEMSON MAPS Campus Maps Parking Space Map Long-Term Visitor Parking Short-Term Visitor Parking FORMS BikeShare Release Form Carpool Permit Application Departmental Guest Permits Departmental Space Reservation LEV / EV Employee Permit Application Payroll Deduction Election/Termination Form Special Event Parking Request Tiger Transit Rental Request Vendor Permit Application FAQ CONTACT US Frequently Asked Questions How do I link my vehicle license plate to my parking permit? For Repositionable Permits (Commuter, Employee, Park-N-Ride) Access your parking account by going to "Manage My Account" at the top of the PATS website. Select "View Your Permits". Select the permit you wish to add your vehicle to. Scroll down the page and select "Add Vehicle to Permit". You will see all the vehicles currently attached to your parking record but not linked to the permit you selected. You can select any of those vehicle if you still own and are responsible for it, or you may add an additional vehicle. You will need the Make, Model, Year, Color and License Plate of the vehicle you are adding. Link only vehicles that are owned and operated by you. You are responsible for any citations issued to your parking permit or vehicle(s) that are linked to your account. You are not permitted to link someone else's vehicle information to your account. All permits have a vehicle limit according to permit type. If you have reached the maximum number, and still need to make vehicle adjustments, you must contact Parking and Transportation Services for assistance. If you are driving a rental car on campus using your personal permit, please contact Parking and Transportation Services. For Non-Repositionable Permits (East/West Resident, Douthit, Apartment) To update your vehicle information, you will need to email parking@clemson.edu with the make, model, year, color and license plate of the vehicle you are using. How do I unlink a vehicle from my parking record? To view the current vehicles associated with your parking record, access your parking account by going to "Manage My Account" at the top of the PATS website. Select "Vehicles" at the top of the page. If you see any vehicles that you no longer own, please contact Parking and Transportation Services to remove them. You are responsible for any citations issued to your parking permit or vehicle(s) that are linked to your account. Can first year students bring a car to campus? Yes. First year students who park a car on campus must obtain a parking permit from Parking & Transportation Services and park in designated areas for the permit that is issued. Students who plan to live on campus must know their housing assignment before applying for a parking permit. I have invited someone to visit who is driving to campus. Do they need a parking permit? If so, where can they get one? If your guests parks and pays a parking meter, no permit is required. For long term parking, online parking permits are available. See the Visitor Parking webpage for more information on all the options. What do I need to do when I drive a different vehicle to campus for a few days? All vehicles operated on campus must display a current parking permit. If you have a current decal (sticker) on your vehicle and must temporarily drive another vehicle, you may request a temporary parking permit from Parking & Transportation Services. Students with decal permits are entitled to 4 one-week temporary permits per semester at no charge. If you have a repositionable permit (commuters and employees), you may purchase a temporary permit from Parking & Transportation Services. I have a new vehicle with a state-issued temporary license plate. How can I obtain a parking permit? Please purchase a permit online through Manage My Account. For the vehicle information, for the state select the state that issued the temporary permit. For the license plate number, enter the alpha-numeric characters on plate excluding dashes "-" and spaces. After you receive your permanent state-issued license plate, you will need to email Parking@clemson.edu with the make, model, color and new license plate number. A customer service rep will update your vehicle's record and send you a confirmation when it has been updated. Where can I park to load/unload? Timed spaces are strategically located throughout campus. You can come to Parking & Transportation Services and receive a one hour Loading/Unloading zone permit. Timed spaces are not provided for students for attending class, rather they are intended for brief business in inner campus areas and for loading/unloading materials and supplies. Unloading permits are available at Parking & Transportation Services or you may obtain temporary permission from the University Police Department by calling 864-656-2222 What do I need to do if I get a new car or move to a location requiring a different parking permit? If you are changing vehicles permanently or have moved and must display a different parking permit, you should remove your current decal and save the pieces by applying them on a sheet of paper. You must bring a sufficient portion of your current decal to allow identification, even though it is in pieces, to Parking and Transportation Services when you apply for a replacement decal in order to obtain the replacement decal at a reduced rate. If your vehicle was totaled in an accident, you may bring in the accident report in lieu of bringing in a sufficient portion of your decal. Parking and Transportation Services charges $6.00 per replacement decal when a sufficient portion of your current permit is turned in. If you do not have a sufficient portion of your decal to turn in, you will be charged $25 for a new decal. Where am I supposed to park when the lot I usually park in is full? Parking for Commuting students is most likely to be available in C-01, C-03, P-04 and streets in the vicinity of Littlejohn Coliseum. Resident students should be able to find parking in the R-01, R-02 or R-03 parking lots; however, students parked in residential lots must move their vehicle 12 hours prior to all home football games. The Park-N-Ride ("P" prefix) Lots are designated for any valid permit to park in them, but they are not intended for storage of resident student vehicles. Parking is prohibited between 2 a.m. and 4 a.m. in P-01 and all commuting parking spaces except C-04 and C-05. Can students or employees park in visitor spaces? Visitor spaces are reserved for visitor use between 7 AM and 9 PM. Students and employees may not park in visitor spaces except from 9 PM to 7 AM. Can students park in employee spaces during holiday breaks? Students who are working on campus over a University break are permitted to obtain a temporary employee parking placard to park in select, assigned employee parking lots. To obtain such a pass, the requesting student must bring all of the following information to Parking and Transportation Services to receive the temporary pass. Written certification from the faculty advisor on departmental letterhead that the student is performing research for them throughout the holiday break. This letter shall include: Name of the student and XID number, Work location and schedule, Reason for the request, and Make, model, and license plate of the student's vehicle. (Note: Supplemental permit is limited to one vehicle.) All requests will be reviewed on a case by case basis and parking assignments are based on availability. All passes must be picked up from Parking and Transportation Services by the student it is assigned to. The pass shall be displayed on the vehicle's dashboard in conjunction with a valid University student parking permit on the vehicle. Parking and Transportation will communicate the acceptance of requests and all of the details associated with a particular holiday by posting in the Announcements section of the homepage. Please continue to check the homepage for more details. When does the time limit apply in timed spaces? The time limit is applicable between the hours of 7 a.m. and 2 a.m. The time limit does not apply from 2 a.m. until 7 a.m. Stalls controlled by parking meters have the following time limits: Visitor stalls have a 3-hour maximum or no maximum (see posted signs) from 7 a.m. until 2 a.m. and free parking from 2 a.m. until 7 a.m. Clemson University permit holder stalls have a 1-hour or 3-hour limit (see posted signs) from 7 a.m. until 2 a.m. and free parking from 2 a.m. until 7 a.m. What areas are reserved for athletic events? All spaces identified with a 4-digit number are reserved parking starting 12 hours prior to a home football game. There are additional parking spaces in areas posted as reserved parking for home football games that are not numbered. For specific information and details regarding reserved parking areas for home football and basketball games, see Parking Areas Reserved for Special Events . How can I pay a meter? Is there a touchless payment option available? All parking meters on campus accept quarters, $1 bills, credit cards, and TigerOne cards. Touchless payment is available through the Flowbird app found in the Apple App store and Google Play Store. License Plate Recognition (LPR) What is License Plate Recognition (LPR)? Clemson’s Parking Enforcement unit is already using this technology on campus to enforce scofflaws, time limits at meters and for parking permit enforcement. LPR is an integrated system of cameras and software, which are placed on top of Parking & Transportation Services parking enforcement cars to scan vehicle license plates. Once a plate is scanned and read by the software, the plate information is sent to the secured parking database for validation. This happens in real-time, allowing the enforcement officers to patrol and cover the entire campus multiple times per day. When a scanned license plate number is not associated with a valid parking permit, the parking enforcement officer is prompted to investigate further and potentially issue a parking citation. How do I Link my Vehicle License Plate to my Parking Permit? All Resident Students who plan on bringing a car to campus can purchase their permit and access their parking account by going to Manage My Account at the top of the PATS website. Click “Get Permit” and this is where you will purchase your permit and link your vehicle’s license plate to the permit. What if I Need to Update my Vehicle Information? For any updates to your existing vehicle you may visit the PATS Office, email PATS (parking@clemson.edu) or call the PATS Office at 864-656-2270. What if I do not have a Permanent State Issued License Plate on my Vehicle? You can still purchase your permit. If you do not have a permanent state issued license plate (i.e. a state-issued temporary plate) for your vehicle, for the state select the state that issued the temporary permit. For the license plate number, enter the alpha-numeric characters on plate excluding dashes "-" and spaces. After you receive your permanent state-issued license plate, you will need to email Parking@clemson.edu with the make, model, color and new license plate number. A customer service rep will update your vehicle's record and send you a confirmation when it has been updated. What if I do not have a Temporary State Issued License Plate on my Vehicle? You can still purchase your permit. If you do not have a temporary state issued license plate (i.e. a dealer plate) for your vehicle, for the State, select "Missing Plate/VIN". For the License Plate, enter the last 10 characters of your VIN number. Next, you will be asked to enter your entire VIN#. When you receive your new license plate, you will need to contact Parking and Transportation Services to update your license plate. What are the Customer Service Benefits? Eliminates any concerns of permits being lost or stolen in the mail. There will be no physical permit to lose. No permit to place on your vehicle. No $25 permit replacement fee if a permit is lost. For a new car, there is no $6 permit exchange fee. Entering license plate information is user driven to help ensure accurate entry. Why is this Environmentally Friendly? Eliminates the production of vinyl/plastic coated type permits. Eliminates disposal of expired permits. Eliminates permit delivery and associated carbon emissions. What’s changing? All Resident Students (East, West, Douthit, and Apartment residents) are still required to purchase a permit to park a vehicle on campus. The only change is that instead of having to display a physical permit on your vehicle, a “virtual permit” will be associated with the license plate entered on your account. Your plate will now be your permit, so as always, it is important to ensure that you keep your account, specifically your vehicle license plate number, up to date at all times or you may be issued a parking citation. Citations and Appeals What payment methods are available for me to purchase parking permits or pay for parking citations? In-person payments at Parking & Transportation Services may be made with cash, checks, Tiger Stripe card, Master Card, Visa, Discover or American Express. On-line transactions require payment with a Master Card, Visa, Discover or American Express card. Are parking regulations still in effect after business offices close? Are parking regulations enforced differently between semesters and during holidays? Parking Regulations remain in effect at all times, including holidays, between semesters, and after business hours. After business hours, parking regulations provide for student parking in employee areas as follows: Student vehicles displaying a valid commuting parking permit are allowed to park in employee spaces (except those posted as "reserved for employees 24 hours") from 4:30 p.m. until 7 a.m. Monday through Thursday and from 4:30 p.m. Friday until 7 a.m. Monday. Vehicles displaying one of the valid resident parking permits are allowed to park in the following employee spaces from 4:30 p.m. until 7:30 a.m.: Employee Lot E-05, north of the Motor Pool; Employee Lot E-04, west of Sirrine Hall; Employee Lot E-01, east of Newman Hall; and Employee spaces on Cherry Road between the intersection of Highway SC 93 and McMillan Road intersection. Vehicles displaying one of the valid resident parking permits are also allowed to park in employee spaces (except spaces posted as "reserved for employee 24 hours") from 7 p.m. until 7 a.m. Monday through Thursday and from 4:30 p.m. Friday until 7 a.m. Monday. How do I appeal a citation and follow up on the appeal? Parking citation appeals are conducted by Parking Appeal Hearing Officers. Parking Services is not involved with the appeals process. Parking citation appeals must be made within 15 calendar days of citation issue. To appeal a citation, you must enter the appeal online on our website. To appeal a citation you may click here. View more detailed instructions here on how to appeal a citation. Appeal results will be emailed to you. Will I lose my parking privileges if I get too many citations? As part of a recommendation to reduce the number of parking violations, violators who receive excessive citations are subject to additional penalties which include loss of parking privileges. A $50 surcharge will be added to the penalty for the seventh and subsequent parking citations issued to a person or vehicle and the citation penalty will not be discounted for on-time payment. Violators who receive ten or more parking citations during the parking year (the period of time that annual parking permits are valid) will have their parking privileges suspended for the remainder of the parking year. What violations may result in my vehicle being towed? If you park your vehicle in a manner that creates a hazardous situation, the vehicle will be towed to restore a safe situation. Motor vehicles may be towed, impounded and stored at the owner’s expense and risk under the following conditions: If it is illegally parked. If it is presumed to be abandoned. If it is not properly registered to include proper license plates and current parking permit. If it is parked in such a manner as to constitute a serious hazard to vehicular or pedestrian traffic, obstructing movement of operation of emergency equipment, obstruction the collections of trash at established locations, or parked in a fire lane. If three or more unpaid parking citations issued against an operator, owner or vehicle are past due. A citation becomes "past due" when it is not paid within fifteen days of issue. If a vehicle is parked in a reserved space/area without an appropriate parking permit. My vehicle has been towed and impounded. How do I retrieve it? All unpaid parking citations must be paid before impounded vehicles will be released. Penalties may be paid the following ways: At Parking & Transportation Services during regular business hours (cash, check, credit card and Tiger Stripe accepted) At the Clemson University Police Department during non-business hours (only exact cash amount and credit cards accepted) Online on our website. If choose to pay online, you must pay all outstanding citations and print your receipt. Then, you will need take your receipt to Parking Services (during regular office hours) or the Clemson University Police Department if our office is closed for an escort to the impound lot. Transit Services Where can I get information about campus bus routes and schedules? Bus route and schedule information is available on the Transit Services page. Information on community bus routes can be found on the Clemson Area Transit (CATbus) website. Who can ride on-campus transit routes? Any student, faculty, or staff member or visitor of Clemson University. Who can ride the Tiger Commute Route? Students who have paid the transit fee as part of their University bill may ride by showing their CUID card. Faculty, staff, and students who have not paid the transit fee must purchase a Tiger Transit Access Card in order to ride. These access cards are sold by the day, semester or year. View more information on purchasing a Tiger Transit access card here. Who can ride the CU Nursing Route? Students, faculty, staff and guests of the CU Nursing Program are permitted to ride. What are the policies and procedures of the transit buses? All buses are to be operated in a safe and courteous manner. Buses shall adhere to the posted schedule to the best of their ability given prevailing traffic conditions. No open food and drink containers on the bus. All food and drink must be sealed. No alcohol or smoking is permitted on the bus at any time. It is up to the driver's discretion to transport any passengers who appear to be under the influence of drugs or alcohol or who exhibit aggressive behavior or language. Drivers and passengers are expected to be respectful of each other through their words and actions. Tiger Transit operates under the policies and procedures of Clemson University. Are masks required on all transit buses? Yes. All riders must wear a mask over their nose and mouth while on any transit bus. Per the August 20, 2021 Transportation Safety Administration release, masks are required on all public transportation modes until January 18, 2022. Clemson University will be following this federal mask mandate. Miscellaneous Why isn’t parking on campus more convenient? Satisfaction with the convenience of parking on campus stems from expectations. If you expect "convenient parking" where everyone parks at the door to his or her destination, Clemson’s parking will disappoint you. If, however, you are familiar with urban or campus parking environments, parking at Clemson compares favorably with most cities and universities because destinations are within a ten minute walk or bus ride and parking fees are reasonable. Why can’t more parking spaces be built near campus buildings? Clemson is master planned to be a walking campus. As such, parking in the inner campus area is limited and inner campus is populated with academic buildings accented by green space. Future classrooms and academic buildings are planned to replace existing inner campus parking. Additional parking facilities will be constructed on the campus perimeter. Reasons for building parking on the perimeter include: Minimize the time between classes by building classrooms reasonably close together, thus allowing more class periods to be available during the day. Enhance safety by avoiding pedestrian/vehicle conflicts in the interior of campus. Save money when building additional buildings. The infrastructure, including utilities, required to support buildings on campus would be significantly more expensive if buildings were more distant from each other. Of course, one or more parking decks could be constructed on the perimeter of inner campus, (it would take several to house the current inventory of over 13,000 spaces). Costs for construction and maintenance are four-or-more times greater than for surface parking. There are also additional costs related to lighting, cleaning and security. Are students represented when decisions are made about parking? Yes, the sincere input and suggestions of parking patrons are valued and considered when decisions are made. Major decisions involving parking are discussed with the Parking Advisory Committee as well as being approved by University Administration. Parking Advisory Committee representatives include undergraduate and graduate students as well as representatives from Faculty Senate and Classified Staff Commission. Some decisions that affect parking negatively are made because they enhance other, more important aspects of campus life. For more information, see Parking Advisory Committee . How is money collected for parking permits and parking citations spent? All persons who park or let stand a vehicle on campus must immediately obtain and display a valid permit. When all students and employees who park on campus purchase and display a permit, everyone is paying their "fair share" toward the provision of parking services. Parking & Transportation Services operating expenditures are not supplemented with any State money allocated for Education and General expenses of the university. The primary source of funds for Parking & Transportation Services comes from parking permit sales and the collection of parking citation penalties. The revenue is returned to campus users in the provision of the following services: The construction and maintenance of parking facilities. Recurring maintenance costs include landscaping, lawn mowing and tree pruning, lighting repairs, litter removal, sign replacement, paint striping and pavement surface maintenance. To supplement operating and capital equipment funding for Clemson Area Transit. For costs associated with providing parking enforcement including costs for labor, uniforms, transportation, etc. To pay for the costs associated with the provision for parking citation appeals. To provide labor, rent, utilities, supplies and other costs associated with the administration of parking services. Students purchase approximately 75% of the annual parking permits sold which accounts for approximately 75% of permit revenue. 74% of campus parking spaces are allocated for student use. Permit fees and parking spaces are fairly allocated. Clemson also compares favorably with our peer institutions regarding permit fees and the ratio of parking spaces to student enrollment. For more information, see Statistics. What is Parking & Transportation Services planning for the future? Parking & Transportation Services is in constant collaboration with Campus Master Planning and parking consultants. The future demand for parking and the feasibility of constructing and operating several parking structures at sites identified in the campus master plan are both being investigated. How are parking responsibilities delegated? Parking responsibilities are delegated as follows: Parking & Transportation Services is responsible for issuing parking permits, maintaining parking citation records, identifying violators and collecting parking citation penalties. Parking & Transportation Services is also responsible for the maintenance and construction of campus parking facilities. Both present and future locations for parking facilities are established in accordance with the Campus Master Plan. Appeals of parking citations are heard by Parking Appeal Hearing Officers. The University Police Department is responsible for enforcing both State and University traffic and parking regulations. Parking citations are issued by Parking Enforcement Officers who are Parking & Transportation Services employees. Organizationally, to whom does Parking & Transportation Services report? Parking & Transportation Services is a unit of the Division of Finance and Operations. The Director of Parking Services is Dan Hofmann The interim Associate Vice President for Auxiliary Services is Kathy Hobgood The Vice President for Finance and Operations is Tony Wagner Parking and Transportation Services G01 Edgar Brown Union | Clemson, SC 29634 Office Hours: Mon - Fri 7:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Contact Us Copyright 2020 Webmaster