Information and Logistics Technology - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Technology Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to ILT Search College of Technology Programs & Degrees Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Accelerated Degrees Minors Vision and Mission People Faculty Staff Boards of Advisors Advising Employment Application for Student Employment UH Home College of Technology Departments Information and Logistics Technology Making the Information Age a Reality The Department of Information and Logistics Technology (ILT) prepares students for careers in business, industry, and government with programs closely linked to workforce quality and productivity for the region, the state, and the nation. Graduates become leaders who bring high levels of technology expertise to the workplace and are prepared to guide technological change within the organization. Graduates of the Information and Logistics Technology programs can expect to successfully: Apply critical thinking skills related to the discovery, application, and integration of appropriate basic principles. Apply problem-solving techniques at a level required for professional practice. Demonstrate effective oral, written, and interpersonal communication skills for application in the global workplace. Improve the profession, maintain professional ethics throughout their lifetimes. In the News STEM Designation for Supply Chain Program Beginning fall 2022 the University of Houston Supply Chain & Logistics Technology Degree Plan will join an elite group of supply chain progr... Nolan Moore Memorial Education Foundation Endowment This past year, the Nolan Moore Memorial Education Foundation (NMMEF) voted to establish an endowment at the University of Houston (UH) Coll... Alumni Spotlight: Lisa Cushing on Flourishing Through Integrity Integrity is the defining trait of any successful entrepreneur, and Lisa Cushing has come to embody that through her professional journey. O... Elizabeth Rodwell's book manuscript was selected as the most promising in the field of Science and Technology Studies by the Ann Johnson Institute for Science, Technology & Society. Elizabeth Rodwell's book manuscript was selected as the most promising in the field of Science and Technology Studies by the Ann Johnson Ins... Technology Student Organizations Give Back November is a month to give back to our communities and be thankful for all we have received. College of Technology student organizations ha... STUDENT SUCCESS Abeer Asad graduated from the University of Houston in May 2020 with a B.S. in Computer Information Systems (CIS) and a minor in Technology ... Digital Media Student Awarded the Print and Graphic Scholarship Foundation Scholarship University of Houston College of Technology digital media student, Kelis Woods has been awarded the Print and Graphics Scholarship Foundatio... Transmedia Software Donation to Digital Media Program Enhances Advanced Marketing Education The University of Houston Digital Media program in the College of Technology prepares graduates with high-level competencies across a range ... From helping you make decisions about your major to making preparations for graduation, we are here to assist. With our advanced facilities, award winning faculty and industry connections, the Information and Logistics Technology department offers students unique opportunities to achieve their highest potential and graduate with confidence in their skills. Undergraduate Degrees Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems The Computer Information Systems (CIS) program addresses the demands of a dynamic and integral part of business and industry - the Information Systems environment. The program challenges students to extend their reach into small to medium-size organizations and develop real-world application solutions. Graduates of the CIS program emerge prepared for a variety of careers including software systems development, e-commerce, and network administration. Bachelor of Science in Digital Media The UH Digital Media program prepares technologically perceptive leaders for this multi-faceted and ever-changing profession. Students gain competencies in various graphic-related technologies as well as a broad background in leadership and supervision in one of the largest industries in the United States. As a graduates of the program, you will discover a broad range of options for a career in digital and video production, publishing, content marketing, social media and social networking, E-commerce, web design, and other rapidly growing areas in our evolving digital world. Bachelor of Science in Organizational Leadership and Supervision The Organizational Leadership and Supervision (OLS) program focuses on providing individuals with a competitive advantage when moving into leadership and supervisory roles. Students gain the tools and knowledge to learn about leadership, the importance of organizational vision and values, developing human resources, and managing technological resources in corporate, government, or community organizations. In addition to leadership, you will learn skills in goal-setting, time management, and verbal and visual communication using real-world applications. Bachelor of Science in Technology Leadership and Innovation Management TTLIM is the business discipline for developing and managing organizations and teams to solve problems and achieve results. The TLIM degree focuses on building the foundational leadership skills in technology subject matter expertise, communication, goal management, asset alignment, team organization and project supervision. Graduate Degrees Master of Science in Cybersecurity The Master of Science degree in Cybersecurity is a hands-on program designed to prepare individuals for leadership roles in technology-based and information-based workplaces. Ideal for working professionals, this two-year program connects theory and experiential learning to equip technology professionals with the skills to assess the security needs of information systems and then to lead and manage the implementation and maintenance of the recommended security solutions. The program is recognized by the National Security Agency/Department of Homeland Security as a Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education program. Coupled with the Center for Information Security Research and Education, this program offers opportunities to participate in innovative applied research. It is also recognized by the Project Management Institute, the program includes key management skills within the project management framework. Minors ILT Minors Students wishing to obtain a minor may choose any approved minor program within the College of Technology. Minimum requirements range from 15 to 18 semester hours of course work, of which 9 must be advanced; 9 semester hours in residence at UH of which 6 must be advanced; and a 2.0 minimum grade point average in all courses in the minor at the University of Houston. For official requirements, see the University of Houston Catalog. Computer Graphics Technology Graphic Communications Technology Organizational Leadership and Supervision Purchasing See an Advisor Students are encouraged to visit with their advisor regularly to update their degree plan and to stay informed about the resources offered by the College of Technology. FAQs Have questions? Check out our FAQs for assistance. Advising Forms Forms necessary for your academic planning including change of major, and general petition form. Contact Us College of Technology Building 4730 Calhoun Road #312 Houston, TX 77204-4020 Phone: 713-743-2994 Fax: 713-743-4032 Student Organizations Association of Information Technology Professionals at UH AITP @ UH was founded by UH College of Technology students to promote career development, networking and the recognition of the Information Technlogy profession. Originally founded in 1999, AITP @ UH was relaunched in October 2007 and, that same year, was given the “Outstanding Professional Student Organization” award. Since then we have grown greatly and will continue to provide valuable opportunities to UH students. Supply-chain Industrial Distribution Organization SIDO provide members with resources and tools to help them succeed professionally and academically, connects students, faculty, staff, alumni and professionals relating to the supply chain and logistics field, and shares opportunities such as scholarships, internships, job openings, networking events, tours, and career fairs to member. Graphic Communications Education Association GCEAUH is devoted to helping its members advance their professional and technical skills in graphic communication while providing networking opportunities with industry professionals. GCEAUH hosts a variety of events throughout the semester such as photography meet-ups, Adobe workshops, and social events. Additionally, GCEAUH works closely with the College of Technology's Digital Media faculty to provide its student members with the best possible opportunities and tools to succeed in their field. Women in Cyber Security (WiCS UH) Women in Cyber Security at University of Houston is a student organization that aims to overcome the gender gap in the cyber security industry by encouraging and supporting women from different academic backgrounds to come together and learn about cyber security. 4230 MLK Blvd. #300 Houston, TX 77204-4021 Phone: 713-743-4100 Phone(Sugar Land): 832-842-3054 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Maps Careers Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Social Media Title IX — Sexual Misconduct Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies