Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Students Contact your Advisor Advising Resources and Tools Transfer Credit Home Overview and Checklist Types of Transfer Credit Transfer Equivalency Database Credit Evaluation Forms Transfer Articulation Agreements Accreditation for Transfer Credit COVID-19 FAQs for Credit Evaluation College Credit Plus Home CCP Admission Requirements Apply to CCP Academic Advising Textbooks & Supplies High School Partnerships FAQ Contact 15 to Finish Students FAQ Resources For Advisors UC Advising Conference About Organization Advising Strategic Plan Assessment Advising at UC is about preparing you for your academic success and future career Academic advising is a type of student support vital to your academic success. Your UC college provides academic advising by assigning you a designated college advisor. Your advisor is there to guide you through your academic program by helping you clarify your academic, professional, and personal goals; explaining program and university policies; advising on classes and how they fit your academic, professional, and personal goals; helping you with academic or personal matters; making sure you stay on track to graduation. In addition to a college-specific advisor, you may also have a specialized advisor assigned to you. A specialized advisor works in a centralized office and advises in other academic areas. Examples of specialized advising includes Honors advising, Pre-Professional advising, transfer advising, and student athletes advising. Although advisors are housed under different colleges and units, they all share a commitment to assist you in reaching your academic goals, all the way to graduation and beyond. We call this commitment the Bearcat Promise. The Bearcat Promise is a central part of advising at UC and vice-versa. The goal of the Bearcat Promise is for you, as a UC undergraduate student, to graduate with not just a degree, but with a plan for your future career. To further assist you with your career planning, UC has a designated Bearcat Promise Career Studio. Staffed with full-time, dedicated career coaches, the Career Studio can help you with anything from clarifying your career goals to prepare your for job interviews or grad school. Contact your advisor Advising tools & resources Frequently visited Find your advisor Transfer Articulation Agreements Advising Portal Office of Advising & Academic Services 2618 McMicken Circle University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221-0202 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.