Skip to main content GSD Logo Harvard University Graduate School of Design Reopening Menu Search Academics Department of Architecture Department of Landscape Architecture Department of Urban Planning and Design Design Studies Design Engineering Doctoral Programs Undergraduate Architecture Studies Loeb Fellowship Executive Education Early Design Education Research Courses More ▼ Apply GSD Now Give People Faculty Staff Students Alumni About Administrative Leadership Council Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Alumni and Friends Website Resources Most Popular: Admissions COVID-19 Financial Aid Frances Loeb Library Student Affairs Offices & Services All Resources → For: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Explore News Events Exhibitions Publications Podcasts Projects Topics Site Index Jump to: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A AIA Henry Adams Certificate AIA Henry Adams Medal AICP Outstanding Student Award Academic Affairs Academic Appointments and Policies Academic Calendars & Schedules Academic Conduct Policy Academic Integrity Academic Services & Advising Accellion Secure File Transfer Accessibility Services Accessibility Services at Public Programs Access to Career Services During Leave of Absence Accreditation Administrative Leadership Council Admissions Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions FAQ AfricaGSD After MDes Workshops After MDes Workshops Aga Khan Program at the GSD Alpha Rho Chi Medal Alumni Connections Alumni Council Career Panels American Society of Landscape Architects Awards Application Checklist Apply Apply for Financial Aid Apply for a Job with Computer Resources Applying for Restricted Scholarships Araldo A. Cossutta Annual Prize for Design Excellence Architecture Architecture Core Prep Areas of Concentration Art, Design, and the Public Domain Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2018 Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2019 Attendance Augmented & Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Award Details Award for Excellence in Project-Based Urban Planning Award for Excellence in Urban Design Award for Outstanding Leadership in Urban Planning and Urban Design B Benefits & Perks Biking Borrowing Print Materials Building Services Business Cards for Students C COVID-19 Information for Staff COVID-19 Testing and Tracing CREATE for Alumni CREATE for Employers CREATE for Students Canvas Capital Improvements and Projects Career Paths by Program Career Resources for Alumni Career Services: Alumni Career Services: Employers Career Services: FAQs Career Services: Faculty Career Services: Students Career Services Offerings Career Services Video Library Careers Casual Conversations With GSD Alumni Change of Address Charles Abrams Scholarship Charles Eliot Traveling Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Chauhaus Classroom Equipment Classroom Technology Clifford Wong Prize in Housing Design Commencement 2022 Commencement Information Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Communications Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Computer Accounts and Passwords Computer Labs Computer Recommendations Computer Requirements Computer Resources Group Concurrent and Joint Degrees Connecting to the File Server Connect with the GSD Contact Contact Admissions Contact Financial Aid Contact the GSD Cost Recovery Policy Course Catalog Course Descriptions Course Info Sessions and Videos Critical Conservation Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2018 Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2019 Cross-Registration Policies & Procedures Current MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements Current MUP Degree Requirements Curriculum Custodial Services D DDes & PhD Financial Aid DDes/PhD Open House Schedule DDes Guidelines for the Dissertation DDes Guidelines for the General Exam DDes Guidelines for the Prospectus DIB Annual Report DIB Programs Daniel L. Schodek Award for Technology and Sustainability Daniel Urban Kiley Teaching Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Dean’s Office Degree Checks Degree Programs Degree Requirements Policies Degree Verifications Design Computing at the GSD Design Labs Design Now: A Quarterly Podcast from Harvard’s Graduate School of Design Design Studies Thesis Prize Desktop 3D Printing Regulations Development and Alumni Relations Digital Delivery and Electronic Resources Digital Design Prize Digital Governance Policy Dimitris Pikionis Award Directions Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging at Career Services Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Offerings Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Resources Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Doctoral Grader (Union Position) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Design Program (DDes) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Document Request Form Druker Traveling Fellowship E ETH Zurich Exchange Program Early Design Education Ecologies Eligibility Email Accounts Emergencies Employer Presentations Employers & Career Paths for Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for Landscape Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for MDE Students Employers & Career Paths for MDes and DDes Students Employers & Career Paths for Urban Planning and Design Students Endowed Fellowships & Financial Aid Funds Energy and Environment Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2017 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2018 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2019 Enrollment Certifications Enrollment Policies Environmental Health and Safety at the GSD Equipment for Classroom Instruction Equitable Accountability Ergonomics Event Audiovisual Support Event Participation for Alumni Event Planning for Faculty and Staff Event Planning for Students Events Events Archive Executive Education Exemptions, Waivers, and Substitutions for MUPs Exhibitions F FAQ FERPA Fabrication Laboratory Faculty Faculty: Collaborate With Career Services Faculty Affairs Office Faculty Directory Faculty Handbooks, Administrative Policies, and Guidelines for Instruction Faculty Research Federal Work-Study Information Fellowships, Funding Sources, and Internships for Students Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Ferdinand Colloredo-Mansfeld Prize for Superior Achievement in Real Estate Studies Final Review Schedule (Spring 2021 – M1, Full-term, M2) Finance Office Financial Aid Financial Aid Application Process for Current Students Financial Aid Application for Prospective Students Financial Aid FAQ Financial Aid Handbook Financial Aid and Satisfactory Progress Financial Matters First Meetings for Option Studios Flexwork at the GSD Frances Loeb Library Fulbright U.S. Student Program G GLACIER GSD-Courances Residency Program GSD Alumni Council Career Panels GSD Community Calendar GSD Consumer Information GSD Diversity Cabinet GSD Payroll Coordinators GSD Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund GSD Radio GSD Student Payroll GSD Web Style Gain Experience General Ledger Gifts & Grants Grading Grant Aid H Harvard-MIT Course Logistics Harvard GSD Job & Internship Fair 2022 Harvard Graduate School of Design Employer Recruiting Policies Harvard Graduate School of Design Fact Book Harvard ID Card Harvard International Office Harvard Shuttle and Van Service Harvard Travel Registry Health Services Heating/Cooling Schedule Help Desk Hiring Students: Information for Faculty History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2018 History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2019 History and Philosophy of Design and Media Home How To Plot How to Post an Event to GSD Now How to Write a Resume That Stands Out Human Resources Human Resources Forms & Policies Hybrid Classroom I IT Policies Income Processing Policy and Procedures Information for Current DDes Students Information for Current PhD Students Installing AEScript AfterEffects Plugin Installing Adobe’s Creative Cloud Software Installing ArcGis Installing AutoDesk Installing Cargo Installing Cinema 4D Installing ClimateStudio Installing DesignBuilder Installing Diva for Rhino Installing Flovent Installing GRANTA EduPack Installing Houdini Installing KeyShot Installing MasterCam Installing MathCAD Installing Miro Installing Modelo Installing Multiframe and MicroStation Installing Printers For Windows Installing Printers for Mac Installing Reality Capture Installing Render Services Installing Rhino Installing RhinoTerrain Installing RobotStudio Installing SketchUp Installing SolidWorks Installing VRay for 3DS Max Installing VRay for Rhino Installing Windows on a Mac Using Parallels International Financial Aid International Student Resources Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Alien Staff Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Bunker Hill Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Dis-Armor Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – El Centro Cultural Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Hiroshima Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Homeless Vehicle Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Loro Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Personal Instrument Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Poliscar Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Abraham Lincoln Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Admiral Farragut Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Central Library Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The City Hall Tower Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Kunstmuseum Basel Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The New Mechelenians Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Real Estate Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Vehicle Irving Innovation Fellowship J J-Term Jacob Weidenman Prize James Templeton Kelley Prize Job Search Resources: Planning, Urban Design, Real Estate Julia Amory Appleton Traveling Fellowship in Architecture K KPF Traveling Fellowship Kevin V. Kieran Prize Key Requests L Landscape Architecture Landscape Architecture Faculty Office Hours Landscape Architecture Thesis Prize Leave of Absence Leaves/Withdrawals and Tuition Charges Library Access & Borrowing Library Liaisons Library Resources & Services Library Resources for Alumni and Visitors Library Staff Life at the GSD Limited-Enrollment Lottery LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard Live Course Presentations Living Guidebook to Virtual Teaching and Learning Living in Cambridge Loan Deferments Loeb Fellowship M MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements MAUD/MLAUD Student Work MArch Course Waiver and Substitution Policy and Procedures MArch Distributional Electives MArch Financial Aid MArch I AP Required Courses MArch II Required Courses MArch I Required Courses MArch Open House Schedule MArch Split Option MArch Thesis Program MDE Open House Schedule MDes Financial Aid MDes Open House Schedule MDes Research and Development Award MDes Technology MLA Degree Requirements MLA Financial Aid MLA Open House Schedule MLA Thesis Guidelines MLA Waivers and Substitutions MUP & MAUD Financial Aid MUP Degree Requirements MUP Outreach Mail Center Mail Policy Master in Architecture I Master in Architecture II Master in Design Engineering Master in Design Studies (MDes) Master in Design Studies (MDes) Pre-Fall 2021 Master in Landscape Architecture I Master in Landscape Architecture I AP Master in Landscape Architecture II Master in Real Estate Master in Urban Planning Master in Urban Planning and Juris Doctor Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Administration Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Health Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Policy Meditation Room Mediums Microsoft Teams Mindfulness, Stress Reduction, & Time Management N NAAB Accreditation Information and Resources Narratives News News Archive Newsletter Nondiscrimination Policy Norman T. Newton Prize O Obtaining a MA State ID Card Office Hour Signup Tools Office Updates Office for Urbanization Office of Career Services Office of Student Affairs Online Registration (my.Harvard) Online Teaching Resources Open Access Policy Open Faculty Positions Open House Open Non-Faculty Academic Positions Opportunities to Recruit GSD Students Option Studio Lottery Spring 2022 Option Studio Presentations Organizational Charts Orientation and Registration for Incoming Students Other Courses of Interest Other J-Term Opportunities Outside Scholarships Outstanding Leadership in Real Estate Award P Page Lists Shortcodes Parking Participate in the Summer Community Service Fellowship Program Paul M. Heffernan International Travel Award Paying for Your Program Payroll Penny White Project Fund Performance Management Performance Management Permanent Records Personnel Manuals Person of Interest (POI) Peter Rice Internship Program at Renzo Piano Building Workshop Peter Rice Prize Peter Walker and Partners Fellowship for Landscape Architecture PhD Student Bios Photo Lab Photography Guidelines Planning Newsletter Plimpton-Poorvu Design Prize Podcasts Policy on Personal Conduct Pollman Fellowship in Real Estate and Urban Development Pre-orientation for New Students Printing Costs Printing Guide Printing Tips and Known Issues Prize for Academic Excellence in Urban Planning and Urban Design Program History Program Pedagogy Projects Protected: Poster Presentations for CSFP Fellows Public Programs Publications Publics Purchases & Expenses R REA Fund Recipients Rafael Moneo Rome Travel Award Real Estate and the Built Environment Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2017 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2018 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2019 Recent DDes Graduates Recent PhD graduates Recommended Backgrounds for Option Studios Recycling, Freecycling and Composting Refunds Registrar Registration Registration Procedures Replacement Diplomas Request Update to Profile Photo Requesting a GSD Subsite Requirements 2017-18 Requirements 2018-19 Research Research Administration Research Administration Resources Research Assistant (Union Position) Research Centers & Programs Research Fellow (Union Position) Research Programs & Initiatives Research Reports & Publications Resource Center Resources for New Graduates Resources for Partners and Families Respectful and Transparent Engagement Return to Campus & Technology Richard Rogers Fellowship Risk and Resilience Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2018 Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2019 Robert A. M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) Room Reservations S Safety, Health, and Wellbeing Sample Job Posting #1 Sample Job Posting #2 Scanners Scholarships for International Students Scholarships for US Citizens and Eligible Non-citizens Seating Charts and Assigned Seating Security Shift Schedule Social Media Social Media Special Collections Special Interest Links for Architecture Students Spiritual Life Spring 2021 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2021 Thesis Review Schedule Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Final Review Schedule Staff Awards & Recognition Staff Directory Staff Newsletter Staff Printing Stationery and Branding Student & Alumni Events Student Academic Affairs Committee Student Directory Student Employment Student Forum Student Forum Open ZOOM Room Student Group Directory Student Group Guide Student Policies Student Records and Transcript Policies Student Travel Information and Costs for Option Studios Students on Leave of Absence Studio Abroad Studio Culture Policy Studio Electricity Summer Peer-Learning Sessions Sustainability at the GSD T Takenaka Summer Internship Talking Practice Tax Resources Teaching Assistant & Research Assistant: Faculty Resources Teaching Assistant (Union Position) Teaching Fellow (Union Position) Technical and Administrative Positions (Non-union Positions) Technology Guide Technology – Required Courses 2018 Technology – Required Courses 2019 Telephones Term Bill The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Title IX Tokyo Summer Workshop Topics Transcripts Transportation Travel Safety and Guidelines Traveling Fellowships Tuition Tuition and Financial Aid U UPD Faculty Office Hours UPD Thesis Guidelines Undergraduate Architecture Studies University Policies & Procedures Updating Staff Profile Photos Urban Design Faculty Profiles Urban Planning and Design Urban Planning and Design Open House Schedule Urban Planning and Design Thesis Prize Urban Planning and Public Policy Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2018 Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2019 Utilizing LinkedIn V VPN Service Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design Veteran and Military Benefits Virtual & On-Campus Events W Web: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Web Editing: Media Web Profile Photos Wellness Resources Wheelwright Prize Who We Are Work Opportunities for Students Work Order Request Form Workshops and Personal Development 2 2020 Oct Iframe test 2021-2022 Academic Year Planning 2022 Application FAQs 2022 J-Term Courses Submit Search Admissions Apply A link to the application for fall 2023 admission will be available here in September 2022. Below are general guidelines as you think about preparing your application. Please note that any updates to the application, along with detailed instructions, will be available in September. Deadlines for Fall 2023 Deadline Program Jan 4, 2023 MArch, MLA, MUP, MAUD, MLAUD, MRE, DDes Jan 9, 2023 MDes Jan 12, 2023 MDE Submission time is 11:59pm Eastern Time. Before Applying Review the academic program descriptions and prerequisites, with particular attention to the previous degree required in order to apply. Read our Admissions FAQ for more details. You may apply a maximum of three times to the same GSD degree program. If an applicant has been denied admission for the third time, further applications to the same program will not be considered. If you’d like to apply to more than one program at the same time (but only wish to enroll in one), you will need to submit a separate application and supporting materials for each program. Please indicate your first choice on the application. If you’re looking to concurrently pursue two masters degrees offered by the GSD, you will need to submit a separate application fee and form for each program and must be admitted into each degree program independently. If you’re looking to simultaneously pursue degrees offered by the GSD and another Harvard University graduate school, you must apply and be admitted into each school independently. If you’re a prospective Ph.D. student, you must apply through the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Application Checklist Gather Your Transcripts You are required to upload transcripts from all colleges and universities from which you will or have received a degree. You should request either an official paper transcript or a digital version to be sent to you from your school. You will then upload it to your application. Make sure the scanned version is legible and oriented properly. Uploaded transcripts can be official or unofficial but should include your name, school name, degree name, major, degree date if awarded, and a semester-by-semester course breakdown with corresponding grades. Screenshots of course websites or student self-service sites are not acceptable. Appropriate transcripts are very important for the application review process. Transcripts not in English must be accompanied by a certified English translation. If the university or college does not issue transcripts, a certified letter and certified English translation must be provided. It should list courses and examinations taken, grades, and degrees and dates of degrees received. Applicants are only required to request official transcripts to be sent directly from their previous institution to the GSD if they are admitted and decide to enroll at the Harvard Graduate School of Design. Do not request that official transcripts be sent to the GSD prior to receiving an admissions decision; we do not retain any transcripts received prior to March 1. All previous degrees must be conferred by August 15 in order to enroll in the fall. Please note that if you are currently enrolled at another graduate school, the GSD does not accept transfer credits for work completed at another institution. Request Three Letters of Recommendation Applicants are required to obtain three letters of recommendation, ideally at least two from college or university instructors. If you have been out of school for awhile, you may request letters from employers or other persons in a position to evaluate your professional abilities and academic potential. Pay close attention when selecting your option about waiving your right to see your recommendation. If you wish to change your waiver selection, then you will need to exclude that recommender and add them again. Recommenders will receive instructions via email once the applicant has registered them via the online application; only online recommendations are accepted. Up to five recommendations may be submitted. You can still submit your application even if your recommenders have not sent in their recommendations. MArch II applicants should solicit at least two recommendations from individuals involved in the supervision of at least one project in the applicant’s portfolio. For example, an applicant who includes their thesis in their portfolio might ask their thesis adviser for a recommendation, and ask the adviser to write about the thesis. The same would hold true for an office mentor or supervisor. If you’ve… Recommendation Letter Requirements Attended Design Discovery You should upload a copy of your evaluation if you want it included as part of your application. If included, you should request three additional letters of recommendation. Applied to the GSD before Recommendations can be imported from previous applications submitted within the last two years. Within the Recommendations section there will be an option to choose the appropriate person from the drop-down menu. We encourage reapplicants to have at least one new letter of recommendation. Applied to multiple programs In the online application, please register your recommenders for each program. Even if they submit the same letter, they need to upload it for each program. Have your GRE Scores Sent to the GSD. To ensure that all those interested in pursuing a graduate degree are not impacted by test center closures or other barriers, the GRE will be either ‘optional‘ or ‘not required or accepted’ for our degree programs for the fall 2022 application. The requirement will be re-evaluated for subsequent years. Please see the chart below for the GRE requirement by program. Optional: If you have taken the GRE and would like to submit scores in support of your application, you are welcome to do so. If you have not taken the GRE and have not submitted scores, the weight of other components of your application will be spread out across your materials during the review process. Your application will not be disadvantaged if you choose not to submit GRE scores. Not required or accepted: GRE scores are not required. If submitted, GRE test scores will not be considered when applications are reviewed. If you are applying to more than one degree program and choose to submit scores for the ‘optional’ programs, submitted scores will not be considered for the ‘not required or accepted’ programs. Program Optional Not Required or Accepted MArch I x MArch II x MLA I x MLA I AP x MLA II x MUP x MAUD x MLAUD x MRE x MDE x MDes x DDes x Have your TOEFL Scores Sent to the GSD International Students Only International students, except those from countries where English is the native language, must submit scores from the TOEFL internet-based test (TOEFL iBT). When requesting that scores be sent to Harvard University, applicants should use the institution code for the Graduate School of Design (3455); a department code is not needed. However, if you are required to enter a department code, choose the department that best aligns with the program you are applying to. Note that we will receive the scores regardless of the department code you submitted. Applicants required to take the TOEFL should schedule their test in time to receive at least their unofficial scores prior to submitting their application. Overall and individual section scores should be reported on the application form. To ensure that your official scores arrive by the deadline, we recommend taking the test no later than December 16, 2021. TOEFL scores are valid for two years from the date of the test, and we are not able to accept test scores for expired tests. Please note that we do not accept the IELTS.Read our TOEFL FAQ for more details and for an update regarding test types for the 2022 application. (Please note we do not accept MyBest TOEFL score reports.) Edit your Resume Upload a resume that includes: employment; education; extracurricular collegiate and community activities (note whether an office held was elected or appointed); honors, awards, professional registration, professional societies, publications; avocations, hobbies, travel; if you served in the military, indicate rank on entry and rank on separation. Write Your Essay The requirements of your essay depend on the program you’re applying to. Program Essay Requirements MArch I All MArch I applicants must provide a response to the following prompt: In the 1923 manifesto Toward an Architecture, the architect Le Corbusier proclaimed, “A house is a machine for living in. Baths, sun, hot-water, cold-water, warmth at will, conservation of food, hygiene, beauty in the sense of good proportion.” His contemporary Eileen Gray later responded, “A house is not a machine to live in. It is the shell of man, his extension, his release, his spiritual emanation.” What is your response to this exchange? Limit your response to 300 words. In addition, applicants must provide responses for two of the following prompts (300 words each): (1) Please tell us about a work of architecture or an experience in the built environment that you find engaging and why. (2) How have your experience and background prepared you for your studies at the GSD? (3) Please tell us about a time when you had to overcome a challenge or difficulty. MLA I, I AP, II All MLA applicants must provide a response to the following questions: (1) How have your experience and background prepared you for your studies at the GSD? Limit response to 300 words. (2) Please tell us about a work of landscape architecture that you find exciting and why. Limit response to 300 words. (3) What aspects of landscape architecture do you wish to pursue in the future? Limit response to 500 words. MAUD, MLAUD, MUP, MRE Submit an essay that addresses your background as it relates to your academic and professional interests, and why you wish to pursue the GSD degree program to which you are applying. Limit responses to approximately 1,000 words. MArch II MArch II offers further opportunities of study to professionally qualified graduates. Please write a response to one of the following. Limit your statement to approximately 600 words, and be sure to indicate the essay option to which you are responding. Note: Although there may be some overlap, please avoid a narrative version of your resume. ESSAY OPTION A Reflect upon an issue or idea of importance that has shaped your perception of the discipline and/or profession of architecture. ESSAY OPTION B Discuss the differences and similarities between two or more buildings of your choice, historical or contemporary, that represent issues of importance to the discipline today. MDes Submit a statement addressing your reasons for pursuing graduate studies, your academic and professional goals, potential research topics, your specific interest in this program, and any other information you feel will assist the committee in evaluating your application. Limit responses to approximately 1,000 words. MDes students are also required to submit a Domain specific short essay (300 word limit): Ecologies: What is your reaction to the phrase “Nature is a social construction”? Publics: What is your reaction to the phrase “Being for, by, or in the public is a spatial, cultural, and political construct”? Mediums: Agree or disagree with the declaration “Technology is social before it is technical.” Narratives: Write an essay about what it means to put architecture into words. Narratives Additional Writing Sample: In addition to the statement and short Domain specific essay, Narratives applicants must also submit a recent example of written work. Writing samples should be uploaded into the MDes Supplement page o the application. DDes DDes students are required to submit both a personal statement and a research proposal. Personal statement: Describe your reasons and motivations for pursuing research at the Doctor of Design level. Comment on the experiences that have shaped your past work and current research ambitions as well as indicate your career objectives. Not to exceed 500 words. Research proposal: Submit a concise proposal describing the research in which you plan to engage during your studies. Include a clear articulation of the driving question(s) as well as the methodologies that frame your project. Highlight, as part of this articulation, some of the significant precedents and disciplinary approaches that have shaped your thinking. Make sure to summarize the relevance of the project by pointing to the ways it will develop or challenge existing literature and/or practice. How will the project contribute to your intended field(s) of study? Finally, include a project timeline that underscores its feasibility given the three to four-year structure of the program (one year of coursework, six months to one year for general examinations/prospectus defense, one to two years for research and writing). Not to exceed 2,000 words. The research proposal will be evaluated based on the following: (1) promise for original contribution to the design professions. (2) feasibility of completion within the time constraints of the program. (3) congruence with the research interests of at least two GSD faculty members who may eventually serve on the thesis committee. DDes applicants are also asked to indicate two GSD faculty members with whom they wish to work and/or who will act as their primary academic advisors. MDE Submit a statement that describes your interest in addressing complex human problems, your particular domain of interest, and how you will utilize this degree to achieve your goals. Your statement should be concise and should not exceed 1,000 words. Prepare Your Portfolio (when required or optional) Portfolios must be uploaded as a single PDF and include your most important and representative visual arts, design, research, and/or professional work. Projects should include a description as well as any supporting documentation, which may include images or a video. All work must indicate the date of the project and whether the project was academic, office-related, or personal. In the case of collaborative work, the contribution by the applicant must be described precisely. Embedded links are deactivated when you upload your portfolio. Please note, we do not accept materials from third party services such as Interfolio. We do not have any sample portfolios. A wide variety of design work and portfolio styles are submitted; there is no one type of correct or successful portfolio. Website portfolios are not accepted and will not be reviewed. Recommended File Set-up: Pages: 30 max (Cover pages or table of contents don’t count) File Size: 40MB max Page Layout: 12” x 18” or A3, two-page spreads should be combined into one page. (recommended) Color Format: RGB (recommended) Resolution: 150 dpi (recommended) Video Requirements: You have the option of submitting one video as a supplement to the PDF portfolio. In exceptional cases where video has been a primary focus of an applicant’s previous design work, up to three video files may be submitted. Format: .MOV or .WMX Length: 60s max Dimensions: 640px x 480px Note: Videos can serve as a supplement to but cannot replace or waive the PDF portfolio requirement. Program Portfolio Requirements MUP Submitting a portfolio is optional, not required. MRE Do not submit a portfolio. MDes Portfolios should consist of scholarly, academic, and/or professional work, and at your discretion, may or may not include visual material as related to the proposed research. MDes portfolios should specifically reference methods, media, and models (physical and intellectual, digital and analog, historic and contemporary, built and proposed) that demonstrate spatial fluency and intellectual depth in contemporary research questions and critical areas of inquiry. DDes Portfolios should consist of scholarly, academic, and/or professional work, and at your discretion, may or may not include visual material as related to the proposed research. MDE You should provide three to five examples of your work, design and/or research, which are most relevant to the MDE program. Examples may be professional or academic and may encompass designed, researched, and/or actualized work. Projects may include but are not limited to, buildings, mechanical systems, electronic systems, organizational systems, and recommendations regarding processes. Demonstration of technical literacy and innovation is desirable. MArch I MLA I Portfolios should show work in the visual arts or design you’ve executed. If you don’t have any previous training in architecture, landscape architecture, or related fields you may demonstrate design aptitude by submitting examples of freehand drawing, painting, sculpture, photography, graphic design, furniture, product design, etc. The purpose of the portfolio is to demonstrate creativity, aptitude for design, and a capacity to think and design in three dimensions. If you have participated in Design Discovery (or similar programs at other schools), you’re encouraged to include this work. AP & Post Professional Programs If you’re applying for advanced placement in the professional degree program in Landscape Architecture or for post-professional degree programs you are expected to submit examples of work demonstrating your ability to pursue study at an advanced level. Compile your Prerequisite Information (MArch I, MLA I, & MLA I AP, MRE applicants only) The MArch I /AP and MLA I/AP degree programs require several prerequisite courses, which are detailed in the text and chart below. The MRE program prefers that its applicants have two or more years of experience in real estate or related fields (related fields include, for example, planning and design professions). In the application you will be asked to list the specific dates of your real estate or related experience, where you obtained your experience (for example, the name of the organization for which you worked), your title, the name and email address of a contact person familiar with your experience. MArch I/AP and MLA I/AP prerequisite courses must be taken at the college level, for credit, and be completed with a grade of B- or higher. In the application, you will be asked to indicate how you have fulfilled, are in the process of fulfilling, or will fulfill the prerequisites. You will need to upload a course description, syllabus, and transcript for each course. While it is not a requirement that you complete all prerequisite courses before applying, it is recommended that you complete or are in the process of completing as many as possible at the time of your application. If admitted, applicants will be notified as to whether the courses they submitted have satisfied the prerequisite requirements. If an admitted applicant has not fulfilled a prerequisite, they will be required to do so before enrolling at the GSD. Although we provide examples of pre-approved courses below, we accept a wide range of courses, including courses taken at your undergraduate institution, online at an accredited institution, and at community colleges. Note that Coursera and similar programs do not fulfill these requirements because they cannot be taken for credit. Please see our Prerequisite FAQs for answers to commonly asked questions about the prerequisite requirements. MArch I/AP REQUIRED COURSES PRE-APPROVED COURSES One semester of calculus – Typically satisfied by a college-level calculus course. Straighterline Online General Calculus I Harvard Extension School Math E-15: Calculus I One semester of physics – Typically satisfied by introductory algebra-based or calculus-based physics courses for science majors. The course should cover basic mechanics topics, including linear, circular, and projectile motion, vectors, forces, inertia, torque, energy, impulse, and momentum. Ideally, the course would also cover waves and thermodynamics. Straighterline General Physics I Harvard Extension School PHYS E-1AX: Physics I (Lecture): Mechanics, Elasticity, Fluids, and Diffusion Two semesters of architectural history – Typically satisfied by survey courses covering Ancient-to-Renaissance and Renaissance-to-Modern, or one history of architecture survey course that covers the Renaissance to Modern periods plus a course that focuses on a particular time period or topic in the history of architecture. If admitted, students will have the opportunity to take the GSD’s special section of the online course The Architectural Imagination. HarvardX: The Architectural Imagination (Please note that if you choose to take this course prior to admission you will be required to retake it if admitted to the program. We recommend waiting to see if you are admitted before enrolling.) MLA I/AP REQUIRED COURSES PRE-APPROVED COURSES One semester of environmental science – May be satisfied by a college-level course in environmental science, biology, ecology, geology, and/or botany. Straighterline: Introduction to Environmental Science One semester of history of the built environment – May be satisfied by a college-level course in the history of architecture (preferred), the history of gardens and designed landscapes, environmental history, and/or urban history. Harvard Extension School: Designing the American City: Civic Aspirations and Urban Form UC Berkeley Extension School: American Environmental and Cultural History One semester of visual arts – May be satisfied by a college-level course in drawing (preferred), painting, sculpture, and/or graphics. Academy of Art University: LAN 605 OL, Drawing as Process Pay the Application Fee There is a $90, non-refundable fee for each application submitted. In order for your application(s) to be reviewed, the fee(s) should be paid, by credit card only, immediately after submitting your application. Try again with a different credit card should the system reject your card. Apply for Financial Aid Prospective students interested in receiving aid should complete the Financial Aid application. Read more information about paying for your program. After you Submit Once submitted, changes, additions, or any other edits cannot be made to the application and/or portfolio. Application materials, including the portfolio, become the property of the GSD and cannot be returned or forwarded to any other party. All decisions are released within the first week of March. You will receive an email indicating that there is an update on your Applicant Status Page. We do not give out decisions over the phone. If you have not received notification by April 1, please contact the Admissions Office at admissions@gsd.harvard.edu. Please note that the GSD does not grant deferrals. If you are admitted but unable to attend, you would need to reapply. Nondiscrimination Policy In accordance with Harvard University policy, the GSD does not discriminate against any person on the basis of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, religion, age, national or ethnic origin, political beliefs, veteran status or handicap in admission to, access to, treatment in, or employment in its programs and activities. Every effort will be made to ensure fairness and consistency in the school’s relations with its students, faculty, and staff. Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Availability The University is required by federal law (The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, 20 U.S.C. 1092(f), known as the “Clery Act”) to publish an Annual Security Report and an Annual Fire Safety Report. The Harvard University Police Department publishes the Annual Security Report, entitled “Playing it Safe,” which includes information about the HUPD, how to report a crime, HUPD’s crime prevention programs, substance abuse, sensitive crimes, emergency notifications, and other important information about security and HUPD services on campus. It also contains three years of statistics on reported campus or campus-related crimes. A hard copy of “Playing it Safe” may be obtained by contacting the Harvard University Police Department at 1033 Massachusetts Avenue, 6th floor, Cambridge, MA 02138, (617) 495-9225. The Harvard University Environmental Health and Safety Department publishes the Annual Fire Safety Report, which includes fire safety polices, evacuation procedures, and fire statistics. A hard copy of the Annual Fire Safety Report may be obtained by contacting Environmental Health and Safety Department at 46 Blackstone Street, Cambridge, MA 02139, (617) 496-7168. The Annual Security Report, “Playing it Safe,” is available at www.hupd.harvard.edu/annual-security-report. The Annual Fire Safety Report is available at www.ehs.harvard.edu/programs/higher-education-opportunity-act-heoa. Prev Next Close Slideshow Back to top Harvard University Graduate School of Design © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Privacy Accessibility Digital Accessibility Maps Contact COVID-19 GSD API Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, exhibitions, and more. Email* Δ Version 1.11.26