Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager For Faculty and Staff For Alumni For Students For Potential Students Biomed A-Z People Directory Pathology Residency and Fellowship Program Show/Hide Home About Us Residency Program Curriculum Core Anatomic Pathology Rotations Core Clinical Pathology Rotations Conference Schedule Sample Rotation Schedule Research Opportunities Program Governance Application Process Compensation and Benefits Medical Student Education Fellowships Don B. Singer Fellowship in Developmental Pediatric Pathology GI and Liver Pathology Fellowship International Visiting Women's and Perinatal Pathology Fellowship Neuropathology Fellowship Stuart C. Lauchlan Fellowship in Women’s Pathology (Gynecologic, Breast, and Cytopathology) Surgical Pathology Fellowship Research Opportunities Digital Pathology Library Surgical Pathology Fellowship The program offers advanced training in all aspects of surgical pathology. The primary goal of the program is to offer the fellow additional experience and responsibilities in general practice diagnostic surgical pathology so that by the end of the program the fellow will be able to perform independently as a surgical pathologist. Program Details Intraoperative consultation: The fellow will be proficient in processing, managing and diagnosing frozen sections in conjunction with the staff pathologist. Case review and sign-out: The fellow will demonstrate competency in the evaluation and reporting of a broad range of surgical pathology cases covering all the organ systems, small biopsies as well as large resections. The fellow will also learn to utilize immunohistochemical and molecular ancillary techniques. The fellow is encouraged to spend three months in a surgical pathology subspecialty such as breast, head and neck, endocrine pathology or cytopathology. A clinical/translational research project will be encouraged. Strong collaborative efforts with the Brown Medical School will provide excellent research opportunities. The fellow will also be expected to participate in the teaching of residents and fellows in the Department and in teaching of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine courses. View Fellowship Program Manual Basic Curriculum of the Program Clinical and Research Components The fellow will be responsible for daily case evaluation and sign-out (with an attending surgical pathologist). Cases will include: GI pathology Urogenital pathology Breast pathology Head and neck pathology Endocrine pathology Pulmonary pathology Hematopathology Pediatric pathology Soft/tissue and orthopedic pathology Renal Pathology He/she will rotate and participate in specific subspecialty sign-out for three months. In addition the fellow will be responsible for the management of intraoperative consultations once or twice a week. Participation in a research project involving modern molecular techniques for a period of three months will be encouraged. Presentation at a national or international meeting will be a goal. Participant’s supervisory and patient care responsibilities: There are no direct patient care responsibilities in surgical pathology. Procedural requirements: The fellow will exhibit proficiency in the management and grossing of routine surgical pathology specimens and in the management and processing of intraoperative consultations. Didactic components: The fellow will be responsible for tumor board presentations once every two weeks, two one hour frontal lectures to pathology residents, laboratory supervision of medical students and overall assistance to surgical pathology residents in the grossing and evaluation of cases Application Process Please send inquiries to: Ross Taliano, MD Fellowship Director [email protected] Faculty Ross Taliano, MD Assistant Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine View Profile Fellows Sean Hacking, MB,BCh,BAO Read more about Sean Hacking, MB,BCh,BAO Alumni Nick Shillingford, MD (2011-2012) Danisha Allen, MD (2012-2013) Anthony Snow, MD (2013-2014) Elizabeth Kalife, MD (2014-2015) Yun-An Tseng, DO (2015-2016) Nour Almardini, MD (2016-2017) C. Lisa Zhao, MD (2017-2018) Mara Banks, MD (2020-2021) Don B. Singer Fellowship in Developmental Pediatric Pathology GI and Liver Pathology Fellowship International Visiting Women's and Perinatal Pathology Fellowship Neuropathology Fellowship Stuart C. Lauchlan Fellowship in Women’s Pathology (Gynecologic, Breast, and Cytopathology) Surgical Pathology Fellowship Research Opportunities Brown Biology and Medicine Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Warren Alpert Medical School Program in Biology Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty and Staff Potential Students Alumni Contact Pathology Residency and Fellowship Program Pathology Residency and Fellowship Program The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University c/o Rhode Island Hospital 593 Eddy Street, APC11-42A Providence, RI 02903 Phone: 401-444-5057 Fax: 401-444-8514 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Division of Biology and Medicine Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, RI 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn SnapChat