Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts CCM launches International Opera Language and Culture Immersion Experience Students in CCM Opera’s AD programs will have the opportunity to travel to Italy, Germany or France By Rebecca Butts Email RebeccaEmail Rebecca 513-556-2675 May 9, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like The University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music (CCM) is at the center of a new groundbreaking international program that sends the college’s graduate-level opera students abroad to study language and culture in Italy, Germany or France. CCM Opera’s Language and Culture Immersion Program gives student singers, coaches/accompanists and directors the opportunity to embed themselves abroad to live, work and study with the industry’s leading conductors, directors and opera houses. Open to students enrolled in CCM’s Artist Diploma in Opera programs, the language and culture immersion experience is tailored to each student’s career aspirations and ambitions. During year one, CCM faculty will work with students in the college’s major opera productions in Cincinnati. During year two, the students will each embark on a 6-8-week language and culture immersion experience in Europe that is customized based on each student’s abilities and interests. This new program is planned and coordinated by CCM Opera, in consultation with Professor Marie-France Lefebvre and Cincinnati Opera Artistic Director Evans Mirageas. “At CCM, we prepare whole artists and scholars to take their places on the world’s stages,” says CCM Dean Stanley Romanstein. “The college is ranked amongst the world’s elite opera training programs, with alumni and faculty regularly appearing on the stages of prestigious opera companies around the world. Now, our AD Opera students will step into the international spotlight to work with professional artists abroad while earning their graduate degrees.” To prepare students for successful opera careers after graduation, CCM provides in-depth voice training, superb teaching from acclaimed faculty, world-class coaching and directing, as well as opportunities to learn and perform major repertoire in public performances in Cincinnati. The innovative new Language and Culture Immersion program embeds second-year AD Opera students abroad to give them first-hand experience as they gain a comprehensive understanding of the traditional languages and cultures of opera — Italian, French and German. The program gives CCM’s next generation of opera singers, coaches/accompanists and directors an advantage as they transition into their professional careers on national and international stages. CCM’s AD Opera Language and Culture Immersion program launches in May 2022, when current student Felicity Tomkins, soprano, travels to Germany for an internship with the Bavarian State Opera in Munich. From May 27-July 14, she will work on performances of Tristan and Isolde and Peter Grimes at the Teatro Nacional de Munich and will study German language and culture at the Goethe Institute of Munich. Additional second-year AD Opera students will be placed as international openings become available during the 2022-23 school year. Participants will be provided with a stipend to cover round-trip airfare, 6-8 weeks of intensive language study, housing and living expenses. Participants will also receive a professional association with an international opera company and will have weekly voice lessons/coachings during their time abroad. When they return to CCM, students will also receive 4-6 weeks of language coaching to continue their learning. CCM AD Opera singers, coaches/accompanists and directors can learn more about the Language and Culture Immersion program on the UC International website. “This new international program expands CCM Opera’s network and connects our students with experiences to work with and learn from professional artists in Europe,” says Stuart Skelton, J. Ralph Corbett Distinguished Chair in Opera at CCM. “I am excited about what we can do in service of our incredibly gifted and dedicated students, to make them the best they can be and to be ambassadors both here and internationally for the excellence that is espoused and embodied here at CCM.” About CCM Opera/Voice Declared a top college vocal program by Backstage Magazine and described as “one of the continent’s major music schools,” by the Toronto Star, CCM’s Departments of Opera and Voice provide one of the most comprehensive training programs for opera singers, coaches and directors in the United States. CCM offers an international faculty of dedicated educators who are also celebrated professionals in their own right, widely and currently active in their respective fields. CCM sends its students out into the profession. Several national opera companies now hold auditions at the conservatory, and the Opera Department also hosts a series of informational talks by nationally renowned professionals working both in America and in Europe. CCM students frequently advance to the final rounds of the Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions, and CCM graduates have performed on the stages of the world’s greatest opera companies, including Cincinnati Opera, the Metropolitan Opera (New York), Lyric Opera of Chicago, San Francisco Opera, Royal Opera (London), La Scala (Italy), and more. Learn more about CCM Opera and Voice. There's More to Explore! Watch CCM's production of The Marriage of Figaro — now available for on-demand viewing. Performed in fall 2021, the opera was recently featured in CityBeat's "Best of Cincinnati" roundup. Looking for additional performances? Watch recent CCM performances on demand by visiting our website. Additional Contacts Curt Whitacre | Director of Marketing/Communications | UC College-Conservatory of Music whitaccp@ucmail.uc.edu | 513-556-2683 Tags Student Experience College-Conservatory of Music Opera and Voice International Arts & Culture Related Stories Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Internationally acclaimed clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky joins... May 27, 2022 UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. Vinnitsky’s appointment as Associate Professor of Clarinet begins on Aug. 15, 2022. Ohio recognizes UC's efforts to welcome veterans May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati this week was among the first universities to be recognized by Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine for its efforts to support students with military backgrounds. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top