Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Continuing Education “Any educator who is given this opportunity needs to take advantage of it. It not only rejuvenates your mind and refreshes the material you teach, but it also allows you to view learning through a different lens, one which may surface perspectives that can be missed from always being in the front of the classroom.” Lauren Sosa Participant in Princeton's Community College Faculty Program, which allows faculty members from 19 New Jersey community colleges to audit Princeton courses in their areas of expertise Community Auditing Each semester, 150 to 175 classes taught by our world-class faculty are open to members of the community for auditing on a non-credit basis. High school graduates ages 18 and above can enroll in classes on subjects as varied as Bob Dylan, Chinese art, biomedical ethics, human evolution, global air pollution, opera, microeconomics and much more. Learn More Continuing Education Program The Program in Continuing Education helps people who are preparing for a career change or entrance into professional school, or those pursuing advanced training in their fields. The program offers for-credit classes but does not grant degrees. It is open to qualified area residents, including K-12 New Jersey teachers, University employees and others. Continuing education students may enroll in most Princeton courses, along with Princeton undergraduate and graduate students. Learn More Community College Faculty Program The Community College Faculty Program is an opportunity for New Jersey community college faculty members and administrators to undertake advanced study by auditing courses at Princeton. You can cultivate your understanding of subjects you teach and consult with distinguished scholars in a variety of fields. Learn More Online Courses More than one million people from around the world have enrolled in the free non-credit courses that Princeton faculty offer online through the University's partnerships with Coursera, edX, NovoEd and Kadenze. Learn More Summer Programs Many programs are offered on campus during the summer for non-Princeton students and local teachers. These students and teachers can work with Princeton faculty, staff and students to build their academic and leadership skills, with programs on subjects ranging from chemistry and combustion energy to music and journalism. Learn More Alumni Education Learning does not stop once you graduate. Through Alumni Education programs, undergraduate and graduate alumni and their families can explore new subjects or revisit favorites in the company of old classmates, new friends and some of the most respected scholars in the world. The Princeton Journeys program organizes alumni trips around the world, usually led by a Princeton faculty member. You can experience Hemingway's Cuba, travel back to Egypt of the Pharaohs, explore the white continent of Antarctica and more. Learn More Experience Princeton Online You don't have to participate in a formal non-degree program to experience our vibrant academic life. Audio and video content from public lectures, faculty podcasts and other sources are available. Princeton's Media Central website offers recorded events, shows and lectures by faculty and invited speakers. A variety of academic and service offices are collected as podcasts on iTunes U. The main Princeton University YouTube channel highlights short videos on University research, teaching, campus life, civic engagement, international endeavors, and admission and aid. More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice