Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu Prospective Students Prospective Graduate Students Learn More Degree Programs We offer admission into the Ph.D. degree in the following areas: Applied Mathematics Applied Physics Computer Science Engineering Sciences (in four sub-fields): Bioengineering Electrical Engineering Environmental Science and Engineering Materials Science and Mechanical Engineering (Note: we do not offer admission into the masters degrees in these areas.) We offer admission into a terminal masters degree in the following: Data Science (S.M.) Computational Science and Engineering (S.M. or M.E.) Master in Design Engineering (M.D.E.) (joint with Harvard Graduate School of Design) MS/MBA: Engineering Sciences (joint with Harvard Business School) Find information about degree programs and specific requirements on the Academics page. Admissions Information Sessions All graduate admissions events will be held virtually in the Fall of 2021. Harvard’s goal is to reduce the number of people on campus—including visitors—in order to slow the potential transmission of the virus and protect vulnerable populations from exposure. Therefore, all in-person graduate admissions events and tours of SEAS are discontinued until further notice. Please attend a virtual event to learn more! Ph.D. Admissions Information Sessions/Panels September 20, 2021 at 10am (eastern time, UTC -4) Check out our virtual info session to hear our latest program information and participate in a Q&A session. October 27, 2021 at 10am (eastern time, UTC -4) Check out our conversation with current SEAS graduate students. They answered your questions on how they made decisions about graduate school, as well as the ins and outs of SEAS from their perspective. December 1, 2021 at 10am (eastern time, UTC -4) Have any last minute application questions? Drop in on our virtual Office Hours and ask away! Admissions staff will be available to answer your questions. No formal presentation will be given. If you'd like to submit your questions in advance complete this quick survey and join us on zoom here. Master's Programs Admissions Information Sessions Join us for information sessions and a Q&A with program staff about our terminal masters programs. Our masters programs in Computational Science and Engineering (CSE) and Data Science are housed in SEAS's Institute for Applied Computational Science (IACS). October 13, 2021 at 10am (eastern time, UTC -4): virtual IACS and MS/MBA info session: View recording here. October 29th at 10am (eastern time, UTC -4): virtual IACS info session: View recording here. November 16, 2021 at 10am (eastern time, UTC -5): virtual IACS and MS/MBA info session: View recording here. Students interested in the Masters in Design Engineering (MDE) Program should contact the Graduate School of Design. Students interested in the MS/MBA: Engineering Sciences Program should contact the Harvard Business School. Our Students Watch video profiles Read research news Main navigation Information For In Prospective Students Prospective Graduate Students Learn More Funding & Scholarship: Graduate Programs Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) How to Apply Non-Degree Status: Special Students & Visiting Fellows Contact Information Graduate Student Data Clubs & Organizations Prospective Undergraduate Students What concentrations (majors) are a part of SEAS? SEAS Tours (undergraduate only) Clubs & Organizations Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ's) Student Stories Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy