Children's Learning Centers - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Children's Learning Centers Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Children's Learning Centers Home About Meet our Staff Meet the Director CLC Advisory Board Employment Hours of Operation Alumni Information Contact Us Testimonials Enrollment Enrollment Eligibility Requirements Tuition/Fees Waitlist Notice of Enrollment Termination Tuition Assistance Programs SFAC Child Care Tuition Assistance Program CCAMPIS Tuition Assistance Program Military and DoD Child Care Assistance Texas Workforce Solutions (TWS) Payments Cameron Wheeler Programs Infant/Toddler Preschool Spanish Language Immersion Programs Parent Quotes Parents Calendar School Song Parent Policy Agreement for Enrollment Newsletters Resources University of Houston Parent Resources Early Childhood Education Professional Development Contact Us FAQ Testimonials Giving UH Home Children's Learning Centers Children's Learning Centers Important Note The University of Houston Children's Learning Centers' (CLC) revised operational hours are Monday through Friday from 7:30 am to 5:30 pm. You can contact us at ccenter@uh.edu or 832-842-0500. Dedication Our staff is dedicated to ensuring that your child's needs are met in a stimulating and developmentally appropriate environment that is joyful, safe, warm, and secure. We want each child to enjoy their formative years and every parent to feel confident that their child is well cared for. Our teachers are professionally trained through formal college coursework and/or specialized professional development classes and have experience in the early childhood classroom. Learn more about our dedication and meet our staff. Program Quality/ Standards of Excellence High quality early childhood education benefits children. Children who experience a quality program are more likely to have greater academic success, enhanced self-esteem and increased self-control. UHCLC aligns the program and curriculum with national (NAEYC & Cognia) and state guidelines and is licensed by Texas Health and Human Services. Classroom Environment We utilize multi-age classrooms to assist the overall development of the child within the family-like community of learners. The program is organized and staffed to minimize the number of group, teaching staff, and classroom transitions experienced by the child. We believe a learning environment that fosters respect for cultural diversity and utilizes an eclectic approach to education allows for optimal growth and development of young children. Please refer to the CLC Program Guides for classroom transition strategies and planning. “Both boys learned so much, including a lot of Spanish, and we all appreciated the caring, professional teachers and staff. We will really miss CLC!” M. Bennett “My son had a great experience at CLC. I loved the staff and teachers; they have great customer service and were always very friendly and knowledgeable.” I. Abercrombie “We’ve been nothing but happy with our experience at CLC. Our daughter has opened up so much, she is much less inhibited, and she feels loved and nurtured every day. Her teachers have been supportive and communicative, and I feel like we’re a part of a loving and supportive family.” B. Bishop “CLC is the university of child learning.” M. Franchek “Our daughter really enjoys her participation in the full-immersion Spanish classroom. We are very happy with her progress in the class and exposure to the diverse cultural experience at a young age that the program affords.” L. Cizek “I’m very fortunate for my daughter to have spent the last three years at CLC. She has become a smart and confident child. I am forever grateful for the caring and professional staff at CLC. Thank you.” H. Boogaard “We really enjoyed the experience that CLC provided to us as a family, as well as the experience Sean had individually. Not only was the care trusted and wonderful, but the education and progress made in him has exceeded all expectations. Thank you all for the investment made for our family. We are greatly benefitted by your involvement.” W. Mayfield “My son has grown so much at CLC. He is strikingly more advanced (both physically and cognitively) than his friends who do not attend CLC. I credit the amazing teachers who give loving attention and encourage his growth and development. We have definitely felt CLC to be very family oriented and we are sad to go. Go Coogs!” J. Grimes Spanish Language Immersion At the Children’s Learning Centers (CLC) our language immersion methodology incorporates the CLC mission and the core values of early childhood education. We believe children develop at greater levels when activities include all learning domains; we know that children learn by doing, interacting, and expressing. We have four Spanish Language Immersion classrooms; two toddler and two preschool. Learn More about the SLI Program Parent Quotes TEACHER TO STUDENT RATIO 1:4 Infant/Toddler 1:10 Preschool Alumni Association Join Today - We pride ourselves on promoting the Little Cougar spirit by staying connected. Alumni Information Employment Inquire about our employment opportunities and apply for a rewarding position with UHCLC. Employment Information University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies