Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Pod of the Planet Episode 15: Flying Into the Eye of the Volcano Earth Sciences Pod of the Planet Episode 15: Flying Into the Eye of the Volcano In this episode, Kevin Krajick talks with volcanologist Einat Lev about her recent trip to study and film Iceland’s spectacularly erupting Fagradalsfjall Volcano. By Kevin Krajick May 28, 2021 Pod of the Planet · 15. Flying into the eye of the volcano In March, Iceland’s Fagradalsfjall volcano woke up from a 6,000-year slumber; soon it was jetting lava fountains as high as 1,200 feet, and sending fiery outflows into nearby valleys. Most people run from volcanic eruptions, but volcanologist Einat Lev decided to get on a plane and get as close as possible. Lev, who works at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Observatory, specializes in analyzing how lava bodies develop and move, and Fagradalsfjall is prime for study: It has a steady, vigorous lava supply, but is not big or explosive enough to be too dangerous. It’s also accessible, a short drive from the capital city of Reykjavik. Einat Lev, at the eruption. In this episode of Pod of the Planet, Earth Institute science news editor Kevin Krajick speaks with Lev about her experiences on the trip, and erupting volcanoes in general. Listeners: Check out the spectacular drone footage she took. You can also see stories and photos from two of her previous expeditions, to the Quizapu Volcano in the high Chilean Andes, and Hawaii’s monstrous Kilauea. As of this writing, Fagradalsfjall was still erupting. It has not caused any serious damage so far, but if the lava continues spreading, it could cut off the Ring Road, Iceland’s main highway. Stay tuned (Icelandic authorities have a live webcam trained on the volcano). You can find Pod of the Planet wherever you listen to podcasts, on Apple iTunes, Spotify, Soundcloud, iHeartRadio and Stitcher. Please send feedback or questions to [email protected] Tags Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory podcasts PodPlanet Volcanoes News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close