4401 Martin Luther King Blvd Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2020 | Monday - Friday 8AM -6PM Toggle navigation UHCO Homepage Request An Eye Appointment Order Contacts Our Services Eye Exams Contact Lenses Pediatrics Essilor Optical Services The Center For Sight Enhancement Dry Eye Medical Eye The Myopia Management Service Brain Injuries Patient Information Why the UEI? Tips during COVID-19 What to Bring To Your Appointment Insurance & Payment Options Directions to the UEI Emergency Care Our Clinical Faculty Your Privacy Rights Internet Eyeglasses Policy Internet Eyeglasses Policy (español) Adjust Font Size Eye Exams Contact Lenses Pediatrics Essilor Optical Services Meet Our Staff The Center For Sight Enhancement Dry Eye Medical Eye The Myopia Management Service Brain Injuries Essilor Optical Services provides quality prescription eyewear and sunglasses to the public at competitive prices. With over 1,500 frames from which to choose, our patients are sure to find name brand frames that not only look great but fit great. Visit our interactive on-line tool at http://ecp.eyeglassguide.com and we'll guide you through a series of questions about you, your lifestyle and your specific eyewear needs. At the end, you'll receive eyewear suggestions specifically tailored to meet your needs. If you enjoy sports, we also offer specialty eyewear for ocular protection and better vision. Whether you need SCUBA masks, sport or swim goggles, we can provide prescription and non-prescription eyewear to meet your vision needs. Optometry students and certified opticians assist our patients in frame and lens selections. All products are warranted against manufacturer's defects for two years from the date of purchase. We take pride in providing quality products and excellent service. We’re open Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. until 6 p.m. and can also fill outside prescriptions. It’s always a good idea to have a backup pair of frames in case you lose or damage your glasses. Please call us at (713) 743-2030 if you have any questions. If you need directions to the University Eye Institute, please click here. Applying to UHCO | University Eye Institute | The Surgery Center | Academic Programs NBEO Pass Rates | 2025 OD Class Profile | Current Research Studies | Faculty Directory | Administration | Continuing Education ©2022 University of Houston College of Optometry. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies