Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College Main Menu About the College Mission History Leadership Strategic Plan My Columbia College Journey Our Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion News and Updates Visit Columbia College Awards The Core Curriculum Contemporary Civilization Literature Humanities Art Humanities Music Humanities University Writing Frontiers of Science Global Core Requirement Center for the Core Curriculum Academics Current Bulletin Archived Bulletins Academic Credit Academic Coursework Academic Advising and Support Academic Opportunities Academic Honors, Awards and Prizes Academic Integrity Academic Affairs Advising Berick Center for Student Advising Career Advising Fellowship Advising Financial Aid Advising Global Programs Advising Major Advising Preprofessional Advising Admissions Financial Aid Learn About Columbia Visit Columbia Apply to Columbia Campus Life Undergraduate Student Life Student Resources Supporting the College Audiences Faculty Families Alumni Search Academics Home / Academics / Academic Advising and Support / Major Advising Major Advising Every academic department has a Director of Undergraduate Studies and all programs of study have a faculty adviser. It is to these members of the faculty whom you should direct your questions regarding your major or concentration. There are several questions which the faculty adviser can help you answer as you explore and develop your intellectual interests: Is this major right for me? What classes would be a good way to explore my interest in the field? What classes would be a good fit for me next semester? How can I study abroad and continue my major studies? How can I get involved in the research conducted in the department? Is graduate school right for me? There is no substitute for talking with a member of faculty in the field of your interest. While friends, family, and the Bulletin may be able to provide some insight and basic information, a member of faculty will be able to convey in-depth knowledge of, and passion for, the subject. A member of faculty is an expert not simply in the field but also in guiding students through the questions necessary for choosing a major and a program of study. Directors of Undergraduate Studies Exploring Majors and Careers Academics Current Bulletin Archived Bulletins Academic Credit Academic Coursework Academic Advising and Support Berick Center for Student Advising Major Advising Academic Resources Academic Opportunities Academic Honors, Awards and Prizes Academic Integrity Academic Affairs Columbia College Columbia University in the City of New York Facebook Twitter Instagram Contact Us 208 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2805 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 ColumbiaCollege@columbia.edu 212-854-2441 College Offices Alumni Affairs and Development Berick Center for Student Advising Center for Career Education Center for the Core Curriculum Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement Double Discovery Center Eric H. Holder Jr. Initiative for Civil and Political Rights Financial Aid & Educational Financing Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Student Life Core to Commencement © 2022 Columbia University | Privacy Policy | Notice of Non-Discrimination | Terms of Use | Accessibility | University Home Page