Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Teacher Education Undergraduate Undergraduate Undergraduate Programs UG Academic Records and Advising The Charles Butt Scholarship Graduate Graduate Admission Master of Education Program Master of Bilingual Education Master of Education: Educator Preparation Master of Education in Special Education Tuition Graduate Specializations Graduate Specializations Admission Tuition Bilingual Education Specialization Program English as a Second Language (ESL) Supplemental Specialization Gifted & Talented Specialization Learning Therapy Specialization Literacy Studies Mathematics Specialization Special Education Specialization STEM Specialization Urban Education Specialization Ph.D. Admission Course Descriptions ☰ Undergraduate Programs SMU Simmons: Ranked among the top 12 private graduate schools of education nationally and among the top 3 public & private schools in Texas. Teacher Education Undergraduate Undergraduate Programs Making the difference The credential required to teach any grade from pre-kindergarten through grade 12 in a Texas public school is a teaching certificate. The certificate identifies both the grade range and at the middle and high school levels the subject/content area. The four grade ranges are: Early Childhood through 6th grade (EC - 6) Grades 4 - 8 Grades 7 - 12 Kindergarten through 12th grade (K - 12) The Texas Education Agency provides a snapshot of this certification process, Becoming a Certified Texas Educator Through a University Program. The Department of Teaching & Learning offers future educators multiple routes to preparing for certification as an undergraduate or post-baccalaureate student, and each of them concludes with student or intern teaching. Undergraduate Major in Educational Studies This program is designed as a major for SMU undergraduates who have already declared a primary major. The Educational Studies Major will prepare students to pursue teaching careers in the private and public sectors, graduate work in the social sciences, and informal education paths in non-profit organizations. Participation in the Educational Studies major does not guarantee a teaching position. The prospective student must fulfill all entrance requirements in order to be admitted into the Educator Preparation Program. As early as possible in your college career and as soon as you know that you might like to be a teacher, schedule an appointment with the Department of Teaching and Learning Adviser by emailing Samia Siddiqui. Credit Hours Outside Simmons Credit Hours Within Simmons/EDU Early Childhood - 6th Grade (EC - 6) 35 33 Middle Grades 4 - 8 33 33 Secondary Grades 7 - 12 24 30 Kindergarten - 12th Grade (K - 12) 24 30 Admission requirements include the following: Successful declaration of a primary major at SMU Successful completion of 12 credit hours (considered “pre-major” hours by Texas teacher standards) Current unofficial transcript An overall GPA of 3.0 and content specific GPA of 3.0 is preferred. Consideration will be given to candidates with overall and content minimum GPAs of 2.5. Qualifying SAT/ACT/TSI scores. SAT=1600 (prior to March 2016) 1100 (March 2016); ACT=23; TSI=R:351, M:350, W:5 Letter of reference from an employer or professor Official interview with advisers in the Department of Teaching and Learning office Written essay Application Deadline Applications for the Educator Preparation Program are reviewed throughout the year on a rolling basis. Please schedule an appointment with the Department of Teaching and Learning Adviser, Samia Siddiqui, prior to submitting your application. Educational Studies Degree Plans Early Childhood - 6th Grade (EC-6) Middle Grades 4 - 8 Secondary Grades 7 - 12 SMU Student Handbook and Resources The SMU Student Handbook is a guide to information and services available to SMU students. Information provided relates to the rights and responsibilities of students in the SMU community, both on and off campus. The Handbook includes the Student Code of Conduct, the University Conduct Review Process, Honor Code, and information/expectations that SMU needs to communicate to its students. All candidates pursuing recommendation for teacher certification must undergo a criminal history background check prior to clinical teaching and employment as an educator. If a candidate has any reservations about their criminal background check, a preliminary evaluation can be obtained before applying to the SMU Educator Preparation Program. For further information, go to the Texas Education Agency sites, Preliminary Criminal History Evaluation and National Criminal History Checks. Applicable resources of our program, specific information for admitted students, as well as our policies, program performance, and Texas educator employment projections can be found at Educator Preparation Program. Music Education with Teacher Certification Preparation Students interested in a teaching career in early-childhood through 12th-grade music programs should pursue the Bachelor of Music in Music Education (Teacher Certification) program through the Meadows School of the Arts. This program combines conservatory-level music experiences, research-proven teaching methodologies, and a strong liberal arts education with practical experiences in public schools to develop leaders in the field of music education. To learn more, please visit Meadows’ Bachelor’s in Music Education or the Bachelor’s in Music Education section in the Undergraduate Catalog. Undergraduate Undergraduate Programs UG Academic Records and Advising The Charles Butt Scholarship Request Information Upcoming Events Request info Contact the Department of Teaching & Learning Contact Us 214-768-2346 teacher@smu.edu Request Information Visit Us Harold Clark Simmons Hall 6401 Airline Rd., Suite 301 Dallas, TX 75205 Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter