Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home > Admissions Admissions Events Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Prospective students are welcome to participate in events to meet Columbia Engineering representatives and learn more about our graduate offerings. Campus Tours Join us for a live virtual campus tour! This tour is specifically designed for students who are applying to, or have been admitted to, a Master's or Doctoral program at Columbia Engineering. The campus tour will showcase campus highlights such as the Seeley W. Mudd Building, Pupin Hall, The Northwest Corner Building, Science & Engineering Library, Low Library, College Walk, and more. Take in all that Columbia Engineering has to offer, from the comfort of your home! Live Virtual Campus Tours - dates pending Virtual Information Sessions Virtual events, hosted by the Columbia Engineering Graduate Student Affairs Office, are offered to help prepare students to submit and complete their application to a graduate degree program at Columbia University's Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science. We invite you to learn more about the Columbia Engineering application process, our exciting MS and PhD programs, and meet representatives from our Graduate Admissions team. 2022 Virtual Information Sessions - RSVP Now! Program-specific information sessions are available below: Speak with an Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Department admissions officer. Register for a Data Science MS Graduate Information Session. Watch the Data Science MS Webinar now! Watch the Civil Engineering Webinar now! Watch the Electrical Engineering MS Webinar now! Watch the Electrical Engineering PhD Webinar now! Watch the Chemical Engineering Webinar now! Columbia University Chinese Students and Scholars Association Watch our student panel to learn about how our students navigated their application process and how they make the most of their graduate student experience. Road Shows and Recruitment Events We look forward meeting prospective students at conferences and events hosted by organizations and institutions around the world! Register and find us at upcoming events here! Administrators from the Office of Graduate Admissions travel throughout the year to conduct presentations and attend various events where students can meet with us. Below are a few events we attend yearly: GEM Conference A prestigious forum for stimulating debate on bold solutions to advance graduate education, the Annual Board Meeting & Conference creates a platform to raise nationwide awareness of its mission, partners, and Fellows. Big 10+ Graduate School Exposition The Big Ten+ Graduate School Exposition is specifically designed for those interested in graduate study in the fields of Engineering, Mathematics, Science, Technology, Pharmaceutical Sciences and related disciplines. Grace Hopper The Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing is a series of conferences designed to bring the research and career interests of women in computing to the forefront. QS World Graduate School Fair Join us at the largest Grad School Fair and Expo in New York to explore your grad school options, learn about studying abroad, or find a specialized master’s or PhD program that best fits your academic and professional goals. SHPE Annual Convention The annual SHPE National Convention is the largest technical and career conference for Hispanics in STEM the country. Each year, the SHPE Convention attracts over 7,000 STEM students, professionals and corporate representatives. Society of Women Engineers Annual Conference The world's largest conference and career fair for women in engineering and technology- to connect with thousands who share your engineering outlook. oSTEM Conference Out in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (oSTEM), Inc. is a 501(c)(3) non-profit professional association for LGBTQ people in the STEM community. Would you like Columbia Engineering Graduate Admissions to attend your upcoming event? Send an invitation to [email protected]! American Institute of Chemical Engineers Professor Bozic with Chemical Engineering graduate students at the annual AIChE Meeting. Peking University Senior Vice Dean Soulaymane Kachani, along with administrators from the Office of Graduate Student Affairs, visit schools across Asia during the annual international graduate admissions roadshow. University of Sao Paulo South America is home to two of Columbia's Global Centers. Columbia Engineering faculty and administrators visit area schools to meet prospective students. The National GEM Consortium The National GEM Consortium. Women in Science and Engineering Conference The Women in Science and Engineering (WISE) Conference is designed to educate and inspire women from all backgrounds to prepare for and pursue graduate degrees and careers in the fields of science and engineering. Conference attendees will learn about the challenges, opportunities, and the rewards of being a woman engineer or scientist. Join us for a day of programming to celebrate and promote women in science and engineering! Past Sessions included: Faculty Panel "Funding your Graduate Education" "Career Possibilities in STEM" "Overcoming the Imposter Syndrome" Graduate Student Panel Lab Tours WISE 2022 Date TBD! Women in Engineering The Women in Science and Engineering (WISE) event features a panel of distinguished Columbia Engineering women faculty. EngAGE Every Spring, we invite bright, young engineers and applied scientists interested in pursuing a PhD in engineering or applied science disciplines to attend an all-expense-paid weekend in New York City for the Columbia Engineering Achievers in Graduate Education program (EngAGE). EngAGE is designed to help prepare prospective students for their future at Columbia Engineering by introducing them to our distinguished faculty, students, as well as take a tour of our facilities and historical campus in one of the most exciting cities in the world. We will also provide information and successful strategies from our graduate admissions professionals to help prepare them for a competitive graduate school application. Program Dates: April 29, 2022 RSVP HERE. EngAGE participants Students connect with each other, as well as with the Columbia community. Student Demonstration Administrators from the Office of Graduate Student Affairs take participants on lab tours hosted by current students. Campus Tour Participants tour the historical Columbia campus in Morningside Heights. Request More Information To receive information about Columbia Engineering graduate programs of study and updates about applying for admission, complete our prospective student form. Prospective Student Form Watch A Webinar The Graduate Admissions team covers Columbia University history, Columbia Engineering achievements, and how to submit a succesful application to one of our MS or PhD programs. Watch now! Graduate Admissions Webinar Brazil Roadshow 2019 2019 Brazil Roadshow Columbia Engineering traveled to Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro this fall. We were pleased to meet prospective students and re-connected with alumni, universities and various companies. Learn More Asia Roadshow 2019 The Columbia Engineering Asia Roadshow team had a wonderful time connecting with prospective students and re-connecting with alumni, universities and various companies around the world. The team visited Beijing, Tianjin, Wuhan, Hefei, Nanjing, Shanghai, Hangzhou, Shenzhen, Guangzhou, Taipei, and Hong Kong. Learn More Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University