Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > March 10, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff March 10, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution Dear Colleagues: We are pleased to inform you of several recent significant changes with respect to vaccine availability. Columbia Locations for the Vaccine Later this month, Columbia faculty, staff and students, who are eligible based on New York State criteria, will be able to get vaccinated at no out-of-pocket cost at one of four Columbia operated Manhattan locations. Additional locations will be opening up later this spring. The following locations will be opening later this month. 630 W 168th Street 2702 Broadway 2920 Broadway (Lerner Hall) 51 W 51 Street Appointment scheduling will be announced in the coming week, and we are also planning additional outreach to eligible faculty, staff, and students. Days and hours of operation will also be announced next week. In the meantime, schedule your appointment at the Armory on 168th Street by going to VaccineTogetherNY.org or by scheduling at any city site. Expansion of Eligible Groups This week there have been significant expansions in the definition of eligible groups. These include persons age 60 and over and certain public-facing staff. Faculty, staff, and students should check their eligibility by going to https://covid19vaccine.health.ny.gov/. Expansion of Place of Residence The place of residence that is used as a criteria for administration of the vaccine has been changed to allow any location in New York State to vaccinate any eligible resident of New York State. Previously, most locations in New York City could only vaccinate residents of New York City. Students who meet other criteria in #2 who are temporary NYS residents due to attending school will be able to get the vaccine. However, faculty and staff who are residents of other states must get the vaccine in their states, unless they are in category 1a (patient facing). We will continue to update you as we move ahead in the coming weeks. Please check the Columbia University COVID-19 website, covid19.columbia.edu for updates. Donna Lynne, DrPH Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC University COVID Director Gerry Rosberg Senior Executive Vice President Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top