Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Aerospace Engineering (BSAE) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Mechanical & Aerospace Engr In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Admission Requirements Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must be in good academic standing and must have a "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311C, MAC 2312, PHY 2048C, and CHM 2045C or CHS 1440. Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must complete a change of major in the term of completion of the final pending prerequisite course(s) listed above. Degree Requirements The Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Department requires all students in the Aerospace Engineering Major to earn a "C" (2.0) or Better in the following sections: Common Program Pre-requisites (CPP), Core Requirements Basic Level, Core Requirements - Advanced Level, Restricted / Approved Technical Electives, and Capstone Requirement. Students in the Aerospace Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Aerospace Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Aerospace Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Aerospace Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Aerodynamics Engineer Aeronautical Engineer Aeronautical Engineering Professor Aircraft Designer Aircraft Engineer Chemical Engineering Professor Civil Engineering Professor Electrical Engineering Director Electrical Engineering Professor Electronics Engineering Professor Engineering Design Manager Engineering Manager Engineering Research Manager Flight Systems Test Engineer Flight Test Engineer Manufacturing Engineering Professor Mechanical Engineering Director Mechanical Engineering Professor Petroleum Engineering Professor Wind Tunnel Engineer Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Bachelors Aerospace Engineering (BSAE) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Admission Requirements Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must be in good academic standing and must have a "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311C, MAC 2312, PHY 2048C, and CHM 2045C or CHS 1440. Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must complete a change of major in the term of completion of the final pending prerequisite course(s) listed above. Degree Requirements The Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Department requires all students in the Aerospace Engineering Major to earn a "C" (2.0) or Better in the following sections: Common Program Pre-requisites (CPP), Core Requirements Basic Level, Core Requirements - Advanced Level, Restricted / Approved Technical Electives, and Capstone Requirement. Students in the Aerospace Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Aerospace Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Aerospace Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Aerospace Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 2 Total Credits Complete all of the following The College of Engineering & Computer Science requires all engineering students to achieve a minimum 2.250 GPA in completing these courses, together with the core requirements, restricted electives, and senior design courses listed below. All students must earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better in: Complete the following: EGS1006C - Introduction to the Engineering Profession (1) EGN1007C - Engineering Concepts and Methods (1) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 54 Total Credits Earn at least 54 credits from the following: STA3032 - Probability and Statistics for Engineers (3) COP3223C - Introduction to Programming with C (3) EGN3310 - Engineering Analysis-Statics (3) EGN3321 - Engineering Analysis-Dynamics (3) EGN3343 - Thermodynamics (3) EGM3601 - Solid Mechanics (3) EMA3706 - Structure and Properties of Aerospace Materials (3) EGN3373 - Principles of Electrical Engineering (3) EML3034C - Modeling Methods in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (3) EML3701 - Fluid Mechanics I (3) EAS3800C - Aerospace Engineering Measurements (3) EAS4200 - Analysis & Design of Aerospace Structures (3) EAS4505 - Orbital Mechanics (3) EML4225 - Introduction to Vibrations and Controls (3) EAS3101 - Fundamentals of Aerodynamics (3) EAS4105 - Flight Mechanics (3) EAS4134 - High-Speed Aerodynamics (3) EAS4300 - Aerothermodynamics of Propulsion Systems (3) Restricted Electives 9 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: Technical electives are available in the BSAE program to address specific student interests in a variety of technical areas. Students can obtain the updated list of the approved technical electives from the Department website (http://mae.ucf.edu/advising/undergraduate-forms/). All students must earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or Better in Restricted Electives. Capstone Requirements 6 Total Credits Complete all of the following All students must earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or Better in Capstone Requirements. These courses provide capstone design experiences and must be completed in the last 2 major semesters of study before graduation. CECS encourages all engineering students to take the Fundamentals Exam during their senior year. Complete the following: EAS4700C - Aerospace Design I (3) EAS4710C - Aerospace Design II (3) Grand Total Credits: 71 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida