Skip to content University of Texas at Austin Brand Search Menu Messaging Voice and Tone Editorial Style Identity Wordmark Typography Colors College, School, and Unit Marks Supporting Marks What Starts Here Campaign Toolkit Applications Brand Book & Toolkit Email Signature HTML Email Photography Presentation Templates Signage Stationery Guides Video Web Guidelines Contact The Texas Brand What Starts Here Changes the World Bring The University of Texas at Austin brand to life through messaging, visual identity, typography, color and voice. These guidelines bring together all the components you need to communicate the Texas brand. They establish guidance for visual and written communications, with built-in flexibility to highlight your college’s, school’s or unit’s unique value proposition and differentiation. Messaging We’ve built the Brand Book to provide the flexibility individual colleges, schools and units need to build customized messages. We’ve also updated our voice and tone, editorial style, and social media guidelines. Identity Our visual identity and brand architecture are rooted in academic tradition and excellence. Any college, school or unit associated with the university should adopt the logo configurations, typography, color palette, and supporting marks when appropriate. Brand Book and Toolkit Explore a wealth of marcom resources — marketing toolkits, photography, email templates, iconography, and more — to help you build projects and campaigns. Applications Learn guidelines and download the Brand Book, templates for web, email signatures, social media, and wayfinding signage. What Starts Here Campaign Toolkit Use these assets to help inform and engage your audiences during the university’s most ambitious fundraising campaign ever. Contact If you have questions regarding the Texas brand or guidelines, please email texasbrand@utexas.edu. Back to the Top of the Page UT Home Site Policies Web Privacy Policy Emergency Information Web Accessibility Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin Close Modal Ask us anything about the Texas brand Search for: Search