Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Romance Languages Menu Main Nav Romance Languages and Literatures Department Romance Languages Contact Back Back Close About Overview News and Notes Contact Giving to Romance Languages and Literatures People Overview Faculty Openings Undergraduate Overview Majors and Minors Course Offerings Language Programs French Curriculum and Courses Language Requirement Major and Minor in French Other Opportunities to Learn French on Campus Study and Work Abroad FAQ and Useful Links Italian Why Study Italian? Language Requirement Curriculum and Courses Major and Minor in Italian Study Abroad FAQ Portuguese Why Learn Portuguese? Spanish Where to Start Language Requirement General Guidelines for Placement Get Ready for the Semester Coordinators Curriculum and Courses Major and Minor in Hispanic Studies Other Opportunities to Learn Spanish on Campus Study and Work Abroad FAQ Language Placement Language Requirement For Language Instructors Honors Program Undergraduate Honors Theses Current Year - 2002 Honors Theses 1986-2001 Honor Societies Study Abroad Teach Abroad Academic Integrity Graduate Overview Master of Arts Programs Course Offerings Graduate Resources Nguyen Prize for Academic Excellence Nguyen Research Travel Prize Nguyen Fund for Graduate Student Professional Formation Ecole Normale Supérieure Exchange Graduate Funding Our Students Graduate Degree Recipients Previous Degree Recipients Career Paths of Doctoral Graduates Career Paths of Masters Graduates Ph.D. Dissertations Graduate Conference Language Careers Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Romance Languages and Literatures Home Undergraduate Language Programs French French Curriculum and Courses Language Requirement Major and Minor in French Other Opportunities to Learn French on Campus Study and Work Abroad FAQ and Useful Links Welcome to the French Language Program at BC The French Language Program is part of the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures at Boston College and is comprised of a large number of qualified professors and instructors who are devoted to language teaching. Each semester around 500 – 600 students, including French majors and minors and students in other academic disciplines, enroll in our language courses. At Boston College you will find many opportunities to learn and practice French at all levels of proficiency and enjoy the diversity of its cultures. A number of our courses satisfy the University’s Literature Core or the University’s Cultural Diversity Core. The language curriculum has been carefully designed to foster progressive acquisition of proficiency in French. From the first day of class students are exposed to the target language and trained to practice the necessary basic skills (speaking, oral interaction, listening, reading, and writing) while expanding their vocabulary and learning new grammar points and structures in context. All courses incorporate the study of culture from different French speaking countries. Students acquire the language while they learn to understand relevant socio-cultural and historical aspects of the French-speaking world and to appreciate and celebrate their differences. A number of our courses also satisfy the University’s Literature Core or the University’s Cultural Diversity Core. Students interested in enhancing their linguistic proficiency while advancing their cultural literacy should consider the major and minor programs in French. Why is French for You? The study of French offers students an open invitation to a diverse world of people, cultures, and ideas. French is the sixth most widely spoken language worldwide with over 220 million French speakers on all five continents. “As a result of population growth, the Organisation internationale de la francophonie (OIF) estimates that the number of French speakers will rise to over 700 million by 2050, 80% of whom will be in Africa. French is an official language of 29 countries, second only to English in this category.” In the United States, more than 1,4 million students study French at the university level. In both an international and national context, French continues to grow as a language of business, medicine and the sciences, and plays a special role in international politics as being one of the official languages of the United Nations and the European Union. Knowledge of French introduces students to a wealth of literature, arts, history, and other humanities. It engages curiosity for travel, exploration, and the allows for more meaningful interactions with the international French-speaking population both in the U.S. and abroad. French uniquely merges the functionality, the opportunity, and the richness of culture that a foreign language offers. We hope that you will join us to claim your place within the French-speaking world. Coordinators Andréa Javel Senior Lecturer in French, Andréa Javel is Coordinator of our Elementary and Intermediate French Program, serving in that role since 1996. She came to Boston College in 1990, shortly after completing her Masters in Education at Harvard University. In addition to her work as Coordinator and as instructor of French, she also serves as Clinical Faculty Supervisor of undergraduate and graduate students (who are working as student-teachers in the Boston school system) at BC's Lynch School of Education, as well as member of the Executive Committee of the American Association of Teachers of French. Johann Sadock A native of France who has taught French at Boston College for many years, Johann Sadock is the Coordinator of our third-year course, "CCR" (FREN2210, Conversation, Composition and Reading). He holds a Ph.D. from the University of Aberdeen, an M.A. from Michigan State University and degrees in French and Comparative literature, law and political science from L'Université de Paris-X. (Please note: Prof. Sadock is available for French CCR advising and placement only during the academic year; for advising and placement during the summer, please contact Prof. Franco Mormando [mormando@bc.edu].) Learning Outcomes ELEMENTARY FRENCH Elementary French follows a communicative approach. From the first day of class, students will interact in French with the instructor and with classmates. Therefore, by the end of this course, students should be able to successfully manage a significant number of communicative and writing tasks in different time frames in the target language. Upon successful completion of the sequence Elementary I and II (FREN1009 and FREN1010) students should be able to: speak in the target language to describe, narrate and carry on spontaneous conversations about topics such as travel, health, professions, plans for the future and references to the past. comprehend the target language with sufficient ability to understand the main ideas and additional details in short conversations referring to the above mentioned topics and authentic situations in different time frames. read and understand texts (some prepared specifically for students, others authentic) dealing with cultural products and practices on a variety of topics. write basic compositions about different themes in simple but complete sentences and short paragraphs with good control of the grammar and sentence structure. recognize, appreciate, and compare similarities and differences between their own culture and the target culture. INTERMEDIATE FRENCH Intermediate French follows a communicative approach. Class is conducted entirely in the target language and nearly all course materials are authentic and carefully chosen to match the interests and capabilities of the students. At the end of the second semester students will be able to express themselves on a wide variety of topics of personal interest and in different communicative settings. Upon successful completion of the intermediate sequence (FREN1109 and FREN1110) students should be able to: speak in the target language to narrate and describe in the present, past and future express opinions about topics relating to their own lives and those of the target culture, especially in areas such as student and family life, traveling, cinema, music, holidays, art and current events, etc. comprehend spoken language at a higher level including authentic videos and recordings in a more formal setting with some assistance. read selected authentic texts on everyday topics with apparatuses such as vocabulary annotations and comprehension aids. write in French at the paragraph level in a variety of formats, from summaries and cross-cultural observations to more formal but guided research papers based on course themes. understand and appreciate current and classic foreign culture especially as it relates to the lives of young people, and make comparisons to their own cultural experiences. CONVERSATION, COMPOSITION, AND READING In Conversation, Composition, and Reading (CCR) students will increase their fluency and solidify their accuracy in French while focusing on complex grammar topics, expanding their vocabulary, and broadening their understanding of diverse cultural and historical aspects of the French-speaking world. The course fosters students’ analytic, critical and creative skills in the target language through the use of authentic materials such as newspapers, reports, films and literary texts and through systematic practice of the three modes of communication: interpersonal, presentational, and interpretative. Upon successful completion of the CCR1 and CCR2 sequence (FREN2209 and FREN2210) students should be able to: speak spontaneously in most conversations on topics that are familiar, of personal interest or pertinent to everyday life. Students should also be able to speak about more formal or specific topics with previous preparation. comprehend the main ideas and relevant details of extended general speech from diverse authentic audiovisual materials in standard language. read and interpret extensive articles and reports related to contemporary topics, including the understanding of important details and nuances. Students should also be able to understand contemporary literary texts in the target language with some assistance. write clear and detailed texts on a wide range of general topics sustaining their views. Students should also be able to write narrative and argumentative essays on specific topics with previous preparation. understand and appreciate Francophone cultures and develop an awareness of their historical, political and sociocultural differences. FOUNDATION COURSES In the Foundation Courses students will acquire extensive fluency and accuracy while focusing on complex grammar topics, expanding and deepening their vocabulary, and broadening their understanding of contemporary sociocultural and political issues in the French-speaking world. The course is structured around analysis, discussion and production of descriptive, narrative, expository and argumentative texts and fosters students’ analytic, critical and creative skills in the target language through the use of diverse authentic materials and systematic practice of the three modes of communication: interpersonal, presentational, and interpretative. In combining Foundation Courses, two for the minor, four for the major, students will: speak with fluency and accuracy in the target language in informal and formal situations. comprehend the main ideas and relevant details of extended general speech from authentic audiovisual materials such as TV news, films and videos in standard language and recognize the most commonly spoken dialectal varieties of the French language. read and interpret wide-ranging articles and reports related to contemporary topics, including the understanding of details and nuances. Students should also be able to interpret literary texts in the target language and identify the principal characteristics of the four main textual genres (description, narration, exposition and argumentation). write creative, clear, coherent and extended texts in the four main textual genres interacting with field-specific and academic language. understand and appreciate the different Francophone cultures and develop a critical vision of their circumstances, contexts or idiosyncrasies. demonstrate the metalinguistic awareness necessary to master a foreign language. Back To Top Back To Top Romance Languages and Literatures Department Lyons Hall 304 617-552-3820 rll@bc.edu Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to the Department Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College