COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Student Engagement, Advocacy & Leadership In This Section SEAL Home About Us Assessment & Reports Calendar of Events Civic Engagement Fraternity & Sorority Life Leadership Development National Student Exchange The NEWSIE The Shocker Support Locker Student Government Association Student Organizations SEAL Every Shocker Starts Somewhere The Office of Student Engagement, Advocacy & Leadership (SEAL) create opportunities for you to serve, explore, engage, advocate and lead during your time at Wichita State. We empower students to maximize their potential through personal growth and real-world readiness. Students who get involved gain valuable skills that enhance classroom learning and advancement in the workplace. Every Shocker starts somewhere. Start here. ABOUT US The Shocker Experience SEAL Calendar of Events SEAL is dedicated to providing events and activities that enhance the Shocker experience. Whether you're looking to find new friends, develop new skills, or just make some memories along the way, we have fun planned for the whole semester. University Event Calendar Wichita State is a lively campus with involvement opportunities around every corner. Check out the University Calendar for all upcoming events. Involvement Opportunities Alternative Breaks This program offers students the opportunity to learn about social and cultural issues throughout communities. Students will participate in community visits, experiential learning, direct service, group discussion, common readings and reflection activities. Community Service Board A student-led council that works to address issues of public concern through service and active citizenship in the community. CSB members strive to serve their neighbors in the Wichita community and beyond with dignity and respect. Fraternity & Sorority Life We are a community comprised of 26 social, Greek-letter organizations that have a variety of backgrounds, values, and missions. We take pride in our academic achievement, leadership development, our commitment to bettering our communities, and our commitment to bettering our members through brotherhood and sisterhood. Leadership Development Stay tuned for all our upcoming leadership programs. National Student Exchange Along with more than 170 other colleges and universities, WSU participates in a program that allows students to study a semester or a year at another participating university. Students can live in a different area and experience an entirely new campus environment while continuing to pay WSU tuition and working towards a WSU degree. Shocker Support Locker Founded in 2015 by the Wichita State University Student Government Association as an effort to relieve food insecurity among WSU community members. Students, faculty and staff are eligible to take up to 25 items per week at no cost. Items include, but not limited to, food items, hygiene products, professional clothing, baby products and more. Student Government Association SGA is the governing body of all students at Wichita State University. SGA represents and advocates for student needs and issues on campus with local, state and federal government officials. SGA is the soul and official voice of students at Wichita State. Student Organizations Academic clubs. Cultural clubs. Religious clubs. Sports clubs. You name it, we got it. Wichita State University is home to more than 200 recognized student organizations spanning a variety of interests and hobbies. Get Connected INSTAGRAM TWITTER FACEBOOK THE NEWSIE 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©