Skip To Top Navigation Skip To Main Content Skip To Footer search Loading... Careers Ask-HR Current Employees Search Menu Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Careers AskHR Current Employees HR Self Service Kronos Login COVID-19 Resources Employee Assistance Program Benefits and Well-being Tigers at Work Payroll Training and Development Performance Management Staff and Faculty Relations Transition and Separation International Employment Talent Acquisition Employment Verification HR Resource Library HR Policies and Procedures HR Service Teams Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Clemson Home page HR Home Talent and Organizational Development Staff Performance Management Staff Performance Management Resources Performance Management Process OnBase-Performance FAQ Policy and Guidance (PDF) Performance Rating Levels (PDF) Performance Period by Group (PDF) Staff Performance Management Clemson is phasing in a new online Performance Management tool called OnBase-Performance. The goal is to automate our current process in order to increase efficiency and effectiveness, reduce manual processing and increase collaboration between employees and supervisors throughout the performance management process. OnBase-Performance includes an online planning and evaluation form, automated workflow and electronic storage. OnBase-Performance will be implemented in three phases to correspond with the Budget Center's current performance period group (PDF). Each group will begin using OnBase-Performance at the beginning of their performance period to establish plans for the new performance year. Follow the new process: Group 1 Follow the current process: Groups 2 & 3 Follow the current process for temporary staff Use the Performance Period Table below to determine your implementation group Performance Periods Group 1: July 1 - June 30 Planning Phase starts: JULY 1, 2022 Group 2: Sep. 1 - Aug. 31 Planning Phase starts: SEPTEMBER 1, 2022 Group 3: March 1 - Feb. 28/29 Planning Phase starts: MARCH 1, 2023 CCIT Athletics (Exception: Football/Soccer) Academic Affairs College of Science College of Education Athletics - Football/Soccer Enrollment Management Development and Alumni Relations CURI Finance & Operations (Facilities) Extension CAFLS General Counsel AAH Government Affairs/External Affairs CBSHS Inclusion and Equity College of Business Libraries CECAS President's Office PSA Research Student Affairs Secretary to the Board Watt Center University Relations YLI Guidance for Performance Periods Select your group below to view detailed guidance. Group 1: July 1 - June 30 Use the current format to complete your 2021/2022 evaluation. Start using OnBase-Performance on July 1, 2022, to establish your planning stage for 2022-2023. OnBase-Performance link coming soon. OnBase Performance will send email notifications to remind staff and supervisors to begin the planning stage discussion and documentation. OnBase-Performance Training, an online, self-paced training, is available to guide you through the performance management process and OnBase-Performance. (coming soon to Tiger Training) Each Budget Center has identified super users to provide OnBase-Performance support and assistance. Find your super user. Group 2: September 1 - August 31 Use the current format to complete your 2021/2022 evaluation. Start using OnBase-Performance on September 1, 2022, to establish your planning stage for 2022-2023. OnBase-Performance link coming soon. OnBase Performance will send email notifications to remind staff and supervisors to begin the planning stage discussion and documentation. OnBase-Performance Training, an online, self-paced training, is available to guide you through the performance management process and OnBase-Performance. (coming soon to Tiger Training) Each Budget Center has identified super users to provide OnBase-Performance support and assistance. Find your super user. Group 3: March 1 - February 28/29 Use the current format to complete your 2022/2023 evaluation. Start using OnBase-Performance on March 1, 2023, to establish your planning stage for 2023-2024. OnBase-Performance link coming soon. OnBase Performance will send email notifications to remind staff and supervisors to begin the planning stage discussion and documentation. OnBase-Performance Training, an online, self-paced training, is available to guide you through the performance management process and OnBase-Performance. (coming soon to Tiger Training) Each Budget Center has identified super users to provide OnBase-Performance support and assistance. Find your super user. Evaluating TLPs, TGPs, Temporary Employees We highly encourage temporary employees to receive written expectations and an evaluation of their performance. All temporary employees (TLP, TGP, Temps) will continue to use the current Temporary Staff Performance Management Planning and Evaluation Form. Temporary Staff Performance Planning and Evaluation Form (PDF) Performance Evaluation Acknowledgement eSignature Page (PDF) Implementation Timeline Implementation will occur from April 2022 - March 2023. Description of Implementation Timeline Image Development: April - June 2022 OnBase-Performance system development User Testing Train the Trainer Website Launch Group One Implementation: May - July 2022 Go Live: July 1, 2022 User Training (pre-go live) Roadshows (pre-go live) Support Sessions (post-go live) Communication Throughout Group Two Implementation: July - September 2022 Go Live: September 1, 2022 User Training (pre-go live) Roadshows (pre-go live) Support Sessions (post-go live) Communication Throughout Group Three Implementation: January - March 2023 Go Live: March 1, 2023 User Training (pre-go live) Roadshows (pre-go live) Support Sessions (post-go live) Communication Throughout Staff Performance Management Resources Performance Management Process OnBase-Performance FAQ Policy and Guidance (PDF) Performance Rating Levels (PDF) Performance Period by Group (PDF) CLEMSON HR Administrative Services Building 108 Perimeter Road Clemson, SC 29634-5337 864.656.2000 RESOURCES Careers Benefits Forms Training Security and Safety Report Quick Links Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Contact HR Clemson, SC Ask-HR Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Copyright © Clemson University. All rights reserved. Clemson University is an AA/EEO employer. Scroll To Top