Medical Withdrawal Application - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services Forms Medical Withdrawal Application Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Medical Withdrawal Application About Medical Withdrawal Support Letters As everyone knows, college can be stressful. At UH Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS), we recognize that students face a number of potential stressors during their college years, both on- and off-campus. Taking care of yourself, emotionally as well as physically, is a key component to a successful college experience. Sometimes unexpected circumstances, changes in your emotional or physical health, and family crises, for example, can negatively affect your ability to be successful. At times like these, we strongly encourage you to contact CAPS for counseling services to support you through the crisis and help you get back on track academically. The sooner you get help, the better the chances of preventing further problems such as failing grades, academic probation or suspension, loss of financial aid, or loss of a student visa. What if it’s too late to get back on track? If it is past the deadline to drop/withdraw from courses, you may consider a medical withdrawal from a semester’s classes in certain instances. For more information, please see Student Policies and Resources. If you have further questions about this process, you can contact the Office of Undergraduate Academic Affairs (UAA) at 713/743-9112. Where does UH CAPS come in? In order to receive a medical withdrawal, you will be required to provide a letter of support from a doctor, psychiatrist, or other licensed mental health provider. The letter provides documentation to assist the Office of Undergraduate Academic Affairs in their decision making about your medical withdrawal request. In certain circumstances, if you are an enrolled student at UH, a CAPS clinician may provide such a letter for you. See below to determine if a CAPS clinician is the best choice to assist you with a support letter: If you have past experience working with a mental health provider, then that person may be your best choice for a support letter, since they will already have knowledge about your situation prior to and leading up to your request for a medical withdrawal. If you have current or past experience working with a UH CAPS clinician, then that person may be able to assist you with a support letter. If you have not had any experience working with a mental health professional, you can choose a private provider in the community or see a CAPS clinician about your interest in a support letter. How can I get a support letter through UH CAPS? If you choose a CAPS clinician to assist you with a support letter, you must follow the steps below: Consult with the Program Coordinator at UH Office of Undergraduate Academic Affairs and follow their recommendations regarding all available options for addressing your academic concerns. Get advising from any applicable UH departments about the potential consequences a medical withdrawal could have on your future academic plans. These could include the following, depending on your particular circumstances: Academic Advising Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Veterans Services Office of International Student and Scholar Services Student Housing and Residential Life If you are currently seeing, or have seen in the past, a CAPS clinician, please contact CAPS to make an appointment with that clinician. If you are new to CAPS, please complete the application for a medical withdrawal support letter before your Initial Appointment at CAPS. If you have any questions or are having trouble filling out the application, your CAPS clinician will be happy to assist you with this process at your initial appointment. Please Note: It can take several sessions and/or up to 60 days for a CAPS clinician to determine if you meet the criteria for a support letter. CAPS reserves the right to refuse your request if you do not meet with a CAPS clinician about your request for a support letter within 60 days of the last day of the semester for which you have requested a medical withdrawal. Obtaining a support letter from CAPS is not a guarantee that your request will be granted. Final decision about granting the medical withdrawal is made by the UH Office of Undergraduate Academic Affairs. Application for CAPS Medical Withdrawal Support Letter (undergraduate), Version 07.19.21 University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies