Skip to main content Apply Canvas Map Calendar Library Directory MyUW more_vert more_vert Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search Institutional Research favorite_border Make a Gift Institutional Data UW Tacoma Office of Institutional Research UW Tacoma Office of Institutional Research The mission of the Office of Institutional Research is to advance the University of Washington Tacoma’s goal to foster a thriving and equitable society by educating diverse learners in an urban-serving setting and providing access to students in a way that transforms families and communities. We accomplish this by providing comprehensive information and analyses to support : Institutional research and planning Policy formation Decision making Evaluation of effectiveness Our office adheres to the Code of Ethics of the Association for Institutional Research (AIR). Labor Solidarity Project Hosts Seminar on 'Revolutionary Nonviolence' May 16, 2022 Secrets of Success: 2022 South Sound Business - Online Edition April 25, 2022 Happiness at Last April 22, 2022 Under Construction April 15, 2022 Got a FinTech idea? Win $10,000 April 14, 2022 More Stories UW Tacoma Visualizations Admissions Explore data about admitted students from the past five years - including average test scores, demographics and geographic distribution. Go to Admissions Dashboard Census Day View the Quarterly Census Day Report for UW Tacoma. Including demographic and academic makeup. Go to Census Day Report Student Data Explore data about UW Tacoma student success at school and after graduation. Go to Retention Dashboard More Data Campus-Wide Data Survey Data Initiatives Other Information Campus-Wide Data Explore data related to UW Tacoma's operational activities, including information about campus finances, faculty and staff. Common Data Set Common Data Set Archives for UW Tacoma. Full-Time Faculty View statistics about UW Tacoma's full-time faculty, including ethinicity, gender, and how it compares to the student population of UW Tacoma and our peer institutions. Faculty, Leadership, and Student Demographic Comparison Faculty, Leadership, and Student race, ethnicity and gender comparison for 2019. IPEDS University of Washington - Tacoma general information. Military Affiliated Military Affiliated students as percentage of total students. Survey Data Explore other information about UW Tacoma and how we compare to our Peer Institutions. New Student Survey Autumn 2021 New Student Survey Initiatives UW Tacoma Institutional Research Initiatives encompass both campus-wide strategic initiative and those particular to our area of research and study. Data Governance The University of Washington Tacoma has established a local Data Governance team to support both University-wide works as well as local needs. Data Fellows An initiative to provide in-unit access to institutional data using a team-based community of practice distributed throughout campus. Other Information Explore other innovative uses of data around UW Tacoma. Peer Institutions 2020 Comparison with UW Tacoma Peer Institutions 2019 Comparison with UW Tacoma Peer Institutions 2018 Comparison with UW Tacoma Peer Institutions The list of our current peers and the methodology behind their selection Internal Links IR Reports Portal Office of Planning and Budgeting 2021 Fast Facts License Compliance Information State License Compliance Dashboard Contact Institutional Research email tacdata@uw.edu phone_iphone 253-692-5739 ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts UWNetID login UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy