Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Fairfield | Charles Euchner Talk Events Past Event CAA Fairfield | Charles Euchner Talk Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo February 17, 2022 7:00 PM - 8:30 PM America/New_York Online Charles Euchner Talk - The 1963 March on Washington ..."I Have A Dream" This talk about the 1963 March on Washington, where Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., delivered his iconic "I Have A Dream" speech, explores the vital questions and lessons for today’s America with its conflicts and divisions. Dr. Charles Euchner, who has taught at both Columbia and Yale, will share historical facts from his book about the march, Nobody Turn Me Around: A People’s History of the 1963 March on Washington, which gives story after story first-hand accounts by individuals involved in the civil rights march on Washington. Dr. Euchner's talk, based upon his book "Nobody Turn Me Around: A People’s History of the 1963 March on Washington" and illustrated with clips from the march, asks: What struggles did King really face in writing his iconic speech and what was the controversy over John Lewis's speech? What are the elements of effective protest and dissent—and what makes a movement fall apart? How can activists expand and revitalize the “vital center” rather than exacerbate the politics of extremism? How did the civil rights movement spawn other movements (like the antiwar movement, feminism, gay rights, environmentalism, and more) - and how have those movements succeeded and failed, and why? How did the civil rights movement create a new “founding” for the nation—and do we now need new reconstitution of the American experiment today? Contact Information CAA Fairfield [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close