Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today A DAY IN THE LIFE Everything we do is designed to build leaders of character who exemplify courage, humility and a desire to serve others before themselves. Our cadets push themselves higher each day in pursuit of this goal. Take a peek into the lives they lead. Good Morning Starting Strong A cadet’s day starts early with time to get their room and personal issues in order and get dressed in the uniform of the day. Some mornings involve military training time for squadron meetings or other events, as well as random room inspections. There is a proper location for everything a cadet is allowed to have in his or her room, and cadets are expected to keep rooms in inspection order. Military Training Squadrons Breakfast THE MOST IMPORTANT MEAL Cadets eat breakfast in Mitchell Hall, the cadet dining facility, which is the largest of its kind in the United States Air Force. During the academic year, the entire Cadet Wing (4,000+ students) assembles to eat family-style meals. Mitchell Hall Arnold Hall Mid-Day Classes and Labs Cadets have two different, alternating class schedules – “M-Day Schedule” and “T-Day Schedule.” Depending on their schedule, cadets start their school day with morning classes at 0730. Most academic classes and labs are located in Fairchild Hall. Military training takes place on various Saturdays throughout the semester. Sundays are almost always reserved for personal time. Academics Fairchild Hall Lunch Break Noon Meal Formation Cadets attend morning classes or study until just after 1100, when they return to their squadron area to prepare for the mandatory noon meal formation and lunch. At 1130, the Cadet Wing lines up by squadron, alphabetically in front of Vandenberg Hall. Then they march across The Terrazzo to eat lunch at Mitchell Hall. The Terrazzo Vandenberg and Sijan Halls Afternoon Collaboration and Competition Afternoon classes begin at 1230. Cadets participate in military training, Commander’s Calls, briefings, commissioning education, or real-world research at one of 19 research centers. Cadets are required to complete 10 physical education classes, including boxing, water survival and team sports. Athletics are among the best team-building and leadership opportunities the Academy has to offer. Research Centers PE Courses Mid-Afternoon Clubs and Athletics Cadets have the opportunity to take part in a wide range of clubs and activities, from cycling to combat shooting to chemistry. Many cadets also participate in airmanship programs like soaring, instructor pilot training or the Wings of Blue parachuting team. Cadets involved in Division I athletics or intramural sports practice with their team in the afternoon. Clubs Athletics Early Evening Military Education Cadets also participate in evening military training time where briefings, lectures, ancillary training and other military duties take place. Fourth-class cadets study the Contrails, to learn about military life and the Academy. Upper-class cadets use this time to mentor younger students or meet to discuss upcoming events that impact their squadron, flight or element. Military Training Leadership Development Evening Study and Social Events Cadets have the option to eat a buffet-style dinner from 1700-1900 in Mitchell Hall. Each weeknight, cadets have personal development time, as well as free time to play volleyball with other cadets in the squadron, catch a home athletics event or compete in knowledge bowls against other classes. Cadets can also head to Arnold Hall for various performances or other free entertainment events. A cadet’s day ends with Taps (the final bugle call of the day), but not before the Academic Call to Quarters (ACQ), or required study time. Fourth-class cadets (freshman), who are required to keep their door open starting at 0715, can now close their dorm door. Events Keep Scrolling ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.