Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Commencement Menu Main Nav Commencement Commencement Contact Back Back Close News & Announcements Commencement Weekend Student Information Plan Your Visit Contact Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Boston College requires attendees to adhere to public health guidelines established by the CDC, state, and local health officials, and follow venue guidelines and regulations in place at the time of the event. Campus Transportation Campus Transportation Learn more Ceremony Livestreams Ceremony Livestreams Learn more Schedule of Events Schedule of Events Learn more Commencement Livestreams Main Commencement Ceremony Monday, May 23, 2022 at 10:00 a.m. Class of 2022 Commencement Undergraduate Degree Ceremonies Individual School Diploma Ceremonies will begin approximately 30 minutes following the Main Commencement Ceremony. Carroll School of Management Undergraduate Degree Ceremony Connell School of Nursing Degree Ceremony Lynch School of Education and Human Development Degree Ceremony Morrissey College of Arts & Sciences Undergraduate Degree Ceremony Woods College of Advancing Studies Degree Ceremony Carroll School of Management Undergraduate Degree Ceremony Connell School of Nursing Degree Ceremony Lynch School of Education and Human Development Degree Ceremony Morrissey College of Arts & Sciences Undergraduate Degree Ceremony Woods College of Advancing Studies Degree Ceremony Graduate Degree Ceremonies Individual School Diploma Ceremonies will begin approximately 30 minutes following the Main Commencement Ceremony. Carroll School of Management Graduate Degree Ceremony Connell School of Nursing Graduate Degree Ceremony Lynch School of Education and Human Development Graduate Degree Ceremony Morrissey College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Degree Ceremony School of Social Work Degree Ceremony School of Theology and Ministry Degree Ceremony Woods College of Advancing Studies Graduate Degree Ceremony Carroll School of Management Graduate Degree Ceremony Connell School of Nursing Graduate Degree Ceremony Lynch School of Education and Human Development Graduate Degree Ceremony Morrissey College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Degree Ceremony School of Social Work Degree Ceremony School of Theology and Ministry Degree Ceremony Woods College of Advancing Studies Graduate Degree Ceremony Commencement Services Dining Services Dining Services Sunday Corcoran Commons: 8:00 a.m.–7:30 p.m. Monday (Commencement Day) Corcoran Commons: 6:30 a.m.–9:00 p.m. Hillside Café at Maloney Hall: 7:00 a.m.–3:00 p.m. Alumni Stadium, outside Gate A and Gate D (coffee and pastry): 7:30 a.m.–10:30 a.m. Alumni Stadium, West end: 10:00 a.m.–2:00 p.m. Conte Forum: 8:00 a.m.–1:00 p.m. Water will be available at the Baccalaureate Mass, Main Commencement Ceremony, and individual degree ceremonies. No food or water may be brought into any of the ceremonies. Bookstore/Gift Shops Bookstore/Gift Shop Hours Saturday, May 21 Main Bookstore, McElroy Commons: 10:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Hillside Shop, Maloney Hall: 10:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Sunday, May 22 Main Bookstore, McElroy Commons: 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Hillside Shop, Maloney Hall: 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Monday, May 23 Main Bookstore, McElroy Commons: 7:30 a.m.–6:00 p.m. Hillside Shop, Maloney Hall: 7:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Gift Shop, Alumni Stadium: 9:00 a.m.–12:00 p.m. (open during main ceremony) Gift Shop, Conte Forum: 12:00 p.m.–3:00 p.m. (open during CSOM diploma ceremony) Tent Gift Shop, Lower Campus Lawn: 8:00 a.m.–3:00 p.m. On Monday, fresh floral bouquets, class rings, and Commemorative Class of 2022 T-shirts will be available for purchase at the Lower Campus Lawn Tent Gift Shop only. On Saturday and Sunday, Commemorative Class of 2022 T-shirts will be available for purchase at the Main Bookstore in McElroy Commons and at Hillside Shop in Maloney Hall. Lost and Found Lost and Found Lost and Found Lost and found is located at the Boston College Police Department in Maloney Hall. The non-emergency phone number for BCPD is 617-552-4440. News & Announcements Back To Top Back To Top Commencement Office of University Commencement Heffernan House 110 College Road 617-552-4330 commencement@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College