Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Sociology About Us People Research Undergraduate Graduate Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate About the Program Contact the Advisor Sociology Advising Curriculum Course Catalog Honors Program Take Action Community Out of Chaos Online B.A. Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebook Home Sociology Undergraduate Sociology Advising Academic Advising in Sociology To make an appointment with the undergraduate advisor, email her at: Kendra.murphy@memphis.edu. Academic Advising at the University of Memphis is an on-going, intentional educational partnership dedicated to student academic success. As your advisor, I care about your academic progress and want to help you reach your academic and career goals. You can count on me to give you accurate and complete information you need to be a successful student. You will get as much out of your advising relationship as you put into it. Meet with me regularly and be sure to use the information and skills you learn from your advising experience to make intelligent, informed decisions throughout your college career. If you experience academic difficulty, I can assist you in finding ways to become a more successful student and I can direct you to free, valuable resources on campus. The bottom line: I am here to guide you and teach you about your career choices, degree requirements, university policies and procedures and how to be a successful student. You can find more information about advising at: https://www.memphis.edu/advising/ Advising for Enrollment/Registration Each semester, you will receive an email from me with the dates for academic advising for that semester. Typically, those dates will begin in March for summer and fall semester advising and in October for spring semester advising. Your academic advising session can be done in-person or online via Zoom if you are a fully online student. Please note that all advising times are Central Standard Time. For more information about Zoom, click this link:https://www.memphis.edu/umtech/teaching/ummedia/zoom.php If you choose an in-person session, you will come to my office (Clement 229A) at the time of your appointment and will bring with you a list of classes you intend to take in the coming semester. Together, we will review your enrolled and completed courses using a combination of UMDegree and your unofficial transcripts. We will discuss the courses you need to take and the order in which they should be taken, including courses for the General Education requirements, Bachelor of Arts requirements, Sociology major, electives and any minor(s) or second major(s)/degree(s) you may have chosen. Once you are apprised of your course requirements, you will sign your unofficial assessment and we will create or update your graduation plan. You will then be cleared for registration. Zoom appointments are similar to in-person appointments in content. Before or at the time of your appointment, I will send you an email notification stating that I am available for your meeting. The email will include a link to your Zoom meeting. Accessing the meeting from your laptop or desktop computer is preferable because Zoom does screen sharing. This does not usually work well on a cell phone. As I am creating your paperwork, I will show and explain it to you via the Zoom meeting. After our advising session, I will scan the unofficial assessment and email it to you. You will print, sign, scan and email the signed document back to me. Once I have your signed unofficial assessment, you will be cleared for registration. In certain situations, such as a student being out of the country for study abroad and unable to access an internet connection sufficient to use Zoom, email advising is possible. It would then be the student's responsibility to set up an appointment either in-person or via Zoom as soon as they were able to do so. I do not do telephone advising. Whether in-person or via Zoom, if this is your first advising session either as a new Sociology major or a transfer student, please book two back-to-back appointments to allow for the extra time needed to review your transcripts. Other Types of Advisement Appointments In addition to your formal academic advising sessions, you can also set up meetings with me to discuss other topics. When possible, please schedule these appointments outside of the normal academic advising times. Please feel free to make any of the following types of advising appointments: Informational – Are you considering majoring or minoring in Sociology, but want more information before you commit? Make an appointment to discuss it! Orientation – Are you new to the University of Memphis or new to the Sociology major? Make an appointment to learn about our department, degree requirements, faculty and courses! Academic advising and course planning for registration – Do you need to register for your next semester of classes? These meetings are held every March and October as well as at other times for new majors. Students should come to these meetings with a tentative schedule planned so we can discuss the classes they will take in the following semester. Graduate school and career path – Do you want to discuss the requirements, benefits, drawbacks and otherwise explore your graduate school and/or career options? Make an appointment! Problem – Is something happening that is having a negative effect on your ability to do well? This could be an academic problem, such as a difficulty with a specific course, overall study skills or being placed on Academic Warning or Academic Probation. It could also be a personal problem. I can provide referrals for tutoring or counseling upon request. Make an appointment! Other – Is there something you want to ask about that doesn't neatly fit into one of the above categories? Perhaps you're thinking about doing an internship, studying abroad or just want to check in on your current progress? Do you need to sign your Summary of Coursework Remaining for graduation? Make an appointment! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/30/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.