Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Main Navigation Our Story Show Extended Division of Student Affairs Welcome Leadership Team Organizational Chart Our Purpose Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Assessment Programs Professional Development Staff of the Month Program Publications Faculty Resource Page Student Employment University Employment Contact Us California State University, Fullerton 2018-2023 Strategic Plan Branding Campus News Donate Facts & Figures College Access and Career Pathways Engagement and Well-Being Identity and Belonging Virtual Student Services Associated Students Inc., CSUF Titan Athletics Academic Appeals Title IX and Gender Equity Show Extended Notice of Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Gender or Sex Hispanic-Serving Institution Initiatives About Assessment Reports Assessment Resources High Impact Practices Assessment Assess. Reflect. Improve. The Division of Student Affairs at California State University, Fullerton is dedicated to understanding and improving the student experience and students' development in the co-curriculum. Student Affairs at CSUF is focused on the improvement of programs and services though student centered, intentional, and ongoing direct and indirect assessment. With student success as the guiding principle, Student Affairs advances holistic student learning and development by creating meaningful connections through educationally purposefully activities. This site is maintained by Division of Student Affairs. Last Published 4/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact danielramirez@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.