Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu 2020 News Breadcrumb Home News from Brown All News News Search News Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 All Previous Years Subscribe to our weekly newsletter 289 Results based on your selections. Science and Technology 14,000 loops around the Earth later, Brown student satellite ends its mission December 31, 2020 The systems on the student-designed and -built EQUiSat functioned nearly flawlessly for over two years in the harshness of space before reentering Earth’s atmosphere on Dec. 26. Read Article Open details for 14,000 loops around the Earth later, Brown student satellite ends its mission University Initiatives In Anchor Program, faculty design courses that thrive within pandemic moment December 18, 2020 Since this summer, over 300 Brown faculty members have completed an online institute run by the Sheridan Center that focused on innovative approaches to developing remote and hybrid courses. Read Article Open details for In Anchor Program, faculty design courses that thrive within pandemic moment Social Sciences Conversations on COVID: How the pandemic could increase homelessness in 2021 December 18, 2020 Francesca Mari, a visiting lecturer at Brown, spoke about what might happen when the federal eviction moratorium ends on Jan. 31 — and why millions of disadvantaged Americans have struggled to afford urban housing for years. Read Article Open details for Conversations on COVID: How the pandemic could increase homelessness in 2021 News and Events The year in stories — 2020 December 17, 2020 It has been a calendar year that will long be remembered, in more ways than could have been imagined — as 2020 comes to a close, here are 23 highlights among Brown’s most noteworthy stories. Read Article Open details for The year in stories — 2020 News and Events From largest pool to date, Brown admits 885 early decision applicants December 17, 2020 Selected from a total of 5,540 applicants, the Class of 2025’s first members reflect the University’s ongoing commitment to making a Brown education more accessible to students from every socioeconomic background. Read Article Open details for From largest pool to date, Brown admits 885 early decision applicants Science and Technology $10 million federal grant expands research to protect against concussions December 17, 2020 A multi-institution effort to better understand, diagnose and prevent concussions received a $10 million boost from the U.S. Office of Naval Research. Read Article Open details for $10 million federal grant expands research to protect against concussions News and Events Passages: Brown Chancellor Emeritus Artemis A.W. Joukowsky, Class of 1955 December 16, 2020 After a successful 30-year career in global business, Artemis Joukowsky returned to Providence in service of his alma mater, where he played an instrumental role for decades in leading and supporting Brown priorities. Read Article Open details for Passages: Brown Chancellor Emeritus Artemis A.W. Joukowsky, Class of 1955 Health and Medicine Researchers identify predictors of timely enrollment in treatment for opioid use disorder December 16, 2020 Frequent doctor visits were associated with timely treatment, while prior overdose, alcohol use disorder and back problems predicted non-enrollment, study finds. Read Article Open details for Researchers identify predictors of timely enrollment in treatment for opioid use disorder News and Events Final court approval of Brown v. Cohen settlement sets 2024 end to Joint Agreement December 15, 2020 Now-final settlement sets an end date to 1998 agreement that has hindered competitive varsity athletics for women and men at Brown; returns women’s equestrian and fencing teams to varsity status. Read Article Open details for Final court approval of Brown v. Cohen settlement sets 2024 end to Joint Agreement Science and Technology Brown alumna selected for NASA’s new lunar exploration program December 14, 2020 As one of 18 astronauts selected for NASA’s Artemis program, Brown Class of 1999 graduate and accomplished astronaut Jessica Meir has a chance to become the first woman to walk on the Moon. Read Article Open details for Brown alumna selected for NASA’s new lunar exploration program Arts and Humanities Online and on-site, Brown and its partners ‘top off’ future Performing Arts Center December 10, 2020 To celebrate the topping-off of its future hub for performing arts scholarship, University leaders joined construction workers and key project partners for a live-streamed virtual ceremony complete with on-site drone footage. Read Article Open details for Online and on-site, Brown and its partners ‘top off’ future Performing Arts Center Arts and Humanities On its 50th anniversary, Rites and Reason Theatre says goodbye to its ‘beating heart’ December 10, 2020 A virtual fete on Tuesday, Dec. 15, will pay tribute to Karen Allen Baxter, who has served as senior managing director of Brown’s Rites and Reason Theatre since 1988. Read Article Open details for On its 50th anniversary, Rites and Reason Theatre says goodbye to its ‘beating heart’ Social Sciences Infant health inequality has increased since 2010, study finds December 8, 2020 After decades of narrowing gaps in health between infants born to the most and least advantaged American mothers, infant health inequality is increasing, portending a rise in health and social inequity that could last for decades. Read Article Open details for Infant health inequality has increased since 2010, study finds News and Events Four students, recent alumni awarded prestigious Marshall and Schwarzman scholarships December 7, 2020 Class of 2020 graduate Frishta Qaderi will study at Oxford as a recipient of the Marshall scholarship, while three others will pursue graduate degrees at Tsinghua University in Beijing as Schwarzman Scholars. Read Article Open details for Four students, recent alumni awarded prestigious Marshall and Schwarzman scholarships Science and Technology Research reveals how airflow inside a car may affect COVID-19 transmission risk December 4, 2020 A new study uses computer simulations to track airflows inside a car’s passenger cabin, providing potential strategies — some of them counterintuitive — for reducing the risk of transmitting airborne diseases. Read Article Open details for Research reveals how airflow inside a car may affect COVID-19 transmission risk Science and Technology NASA moves forward with water-seeking Moon mission December 4, 2020 Two Brown University alumnae and a Brown professor will lead a small satellite mission to further investigate water on the surface of the Moon, which was first detected by Brown scientists in 2009. Read Article Open details for NASA moves forward with water-seeking Moon mission News and Events Midyear Completion students inspire, innovate on their paths to graduation December 3, 2020 Brown’s Midyear Completion Celebration, to be held virtually on Saturday, Dec. 5, will recognize the unique achievements of this year’s 0.5ers, who complete their degree requirements this month. Read Article Open details for Midyear Completion students inspire, innovate on their paths to graduation Health and Medicine With COVID-19 vaccine near, Brown researchers to track adverse impacts in nursing home residents December 2, 2020 A new federal grant will enable a Brown research team and Genesis HealthCare to identify and track health impacts after elderly residents in long-term care facilities receive vaccinations. Read Article Open details for With COVID-19 vaccine near, Brown researchers to track adverse impacts in nursing home residents News and Events Juliet Hooker to deliver Presidential Faculty Award lecture at Brown November 30, 2020 Hooker, a professor of political science, will draw from the work of Ida B. Wells and Harriet Jacobs to examine how Black communities can fight for change while also finding ways to thrive in the midst of loss. Read Article Open details for Juliet Hooker to deliver Presidential Faculty Award lecture at Brown News and Events Brown urges court to block federal executive order that challenges diversity, equity programs November 25, 2020 Brown and seven other colleges and universities argue that a Sept. 22 executive order from President Trump will regulate speech based on viewpoint and threaten innovative research on health, medicine, technology and more. Read Article Open details for Brown urges court to block federal executive order that challenges diversity, equity programs Social Sciences Field research has changed, and so should ethical guidelines, Brown professor says November 24, 2020 A social scientist at Brown is calling on research institutions, leading scientific journals and national professional associations to establish new ethical standards that protect human subjects from emotional, financial and political manipulation. Read Article Open details for Field research has changed, and so should ethical guidelines, Brown professor says News and Events Brown medical science, sociology faculty members elected AAAS fellows November 24, 2020 For their distinguished contributions to science, Graduate School Dean Andrew G. Campbell and professor Susan Short have been elected fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Read Article Open details for Brown medical science, sociology faculty members elected AAAS fellows News and Events Class of 2020 Brown graduate awarded prestigious Rhodes Scholarship November 22, 2020 Mneera Abdullah Saud, a native of Saudi Arabia and Bahrain who earned a bachelor's degree in computer science at Brown, will pursue graduate studies at Oxford through the world’s oldest international scholarship program. Read Article Open details for Class of 2020 Brown graduate awarded prestigious Rhodes Scholarship Health and Medicine New communications toolkit aims to encourage routine COVID-19 testing across the U.S. November 19, 2020 The Brown University School of Public Health, Harvard Global Health Institute and the Rockefeller Foundation launched a toolkit to help health officials, community organizations convey the importance of asymptomatic testing. Read Article Open details for New communications toolkit aims to encourage routine COVID-19 testing across the U.S. University Initiatives Healthy Ambassadors play crucial role in promoting healthy behavior, curbing COVID-19 on campus November 19, 2020 A new initiative has both encouraged adherence to health protocols, contributing to Brown’s low COVID-19 case count, and mobilized more than 70 staff members whose work responsibilities were altered by the pandemic. Read Article Open details for Healthy Ambassadors play crucial role in promoting healthy behavior, curbing COVID-19 on campus University Initiatives Staff members lend creativity, commitment to Brown’s pandemic response November 19, 2020 Employees from across the University have redefined their roles to address challenges arising from the ongoing pandemic, supporting world-class teaching, research and student opportunities. Read Article Open details for Staff members lend creativity, commitment to Brown’s pandemic response Health and Medicine Pod e-cigarettes less harmful than regular cigarettes, new study finds November 18, 2020 In the first-ever clinical trial of fourth-generation electronic cigarettes, researchers found that adults who switched to e-cigarettes had lower levels of a major carcinogen compared to smokers who continued using combustible cigarettes. Read Article Open details for Pod e-cigarettes less harmful than regular cigarettes, new study finds News and Events Final week of fall courses at Brown will be conducted remotely November 17, 2020 With increasing COVID-19 cases in Rhode Island and nationally, and an uptick of positive cases on campus, Brown will move to online-only instruction for undergraduate and graduate students for the final six days of classes. Read Article Open details for Final week of fall courses at Brown will be conducted remotely Arts and Humanities Brown is first non-HBCU invited to join national HBCU Library Alliance November 16, 2020 The University is the newest member of a nationwide alliance dedicated to preserving and advancing the scholarly and institutional library collections of historically Black colleges and universities. Read Article Open details for Brown is first non-HBCU invited to join national HBCU Library Alliance Student Life For Brown senior, leading COVID-19 task force underscores how public health, medicine intertwine November 12, 2020 As co-chair of the Young Adult Task Force of Rhode Island, María Guerrero Martínez has developed strategies for motivating young people across the state to help curb the pandemic’s spread. Read Article Open details for For Brown senior, leading COVID-19 task force underscores how public health, medicine intertwine News and Events Student veterans reflect on service, support, sacrifice November 11, 2020 Four Brown students who are veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces shared their thoughts on how military service has given them a unique perspective in the classroom and in the community. Read Article Open details for Student veterans reflect on service, support, sacrifice News and Events $20 million gift to enable full scholarships for U.S. military veterans at Brown November 11, 2020 A generous gift from U.S. Army veteran and Brown parent Joseph P. Healey will provide crucial support for Brown’s plan to double the number of student veterans enrolled as undergraduates by 2024. Read Article Open details for $20 million gift to enable full scholarships for U.S. military veterans at Brown News and Events Amid national uncertainty, Brown students, scholars grapple with election analysis November 5, 2020 With millions of votes still untallied as of mid-Thursday, students and faculty analyzed election results and debated the aftermath in a virtual gathering hosted by the Taubman Center for American Politics and Policy. Read Article Open details for Amid national uncertainty, Brown students, scholars grapple with election analysis News and Events Brown joins legal brief to block new visa rules, citing negative impact on international workers November 2, 2020 New federal rules on H-1B visa eligibility would irreparably harm research and teaching at universities and are fundamentally unfair to individuals who have relied on existing immigration law, amicus brief argues. Read Article Open details for Brown joins legal brief to block new visa rules, citing negative impact on international workers Science and Technology New remote sensing technique could bring key planetary mineral into focus November 2, 2020 The mineral olivine, thought to be a major component inside all planetary bodies, holds secrets about the early formation of the solar system, and a team of Brown University researchers has a new way to study it remotely. Read Article Open details for New remote sensing technique could bring key planetary mineral into focus Arts and Humanities Avery Willis Hoffman appointed artistic director of Brown Arts Initiative October 30, 2020 As artistic director, Hoffman will curate arts programming, including work by students, faculty and external artists and organizations, building the visibility and quality of arts programming at the University. Read Article Open details for Avery Willis Hoffman appointed artistic director of Brown Arts Initiative News and Events What to expect on Election Day, according to Brown's faculty experts October 29, 2020 Eight faculty members shared their analysis on what the nation can expect on Election Day and beyond — at the polls, on the streets and potentially in the courts. Read Article Open details for What to expect on Election Day, according to Brown&#039;s faculty experts Environment With global scholarly network, Brown faculty to advance study of climate change countermovement October 27, 2020 The Climate Social Science Network, based at the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society, will bring together leading scholars to catalyze collaborative research on the interests that are stalling climate action. Read Article Open details for With global scholarly network, Brown faculty to advance study of climate change countermovement News and Events Paxson to chair association of America’s leading research universities October 27, 2020 Brown President Christina H. Paxson will chair the board of directors for the Association of American Universities, which helps to shape national policy for higher education, science and innovation. Read Article Open details for Paxson to chair association of America’s leading research universities Student Life PHOTOS: Some in-person activities resume at Brown, with creative twists to maintain health and safety October 26, 2020 With the second phase of the University’s return to fall term in-person operations underway, students have more opportunities to engage in campus activities that have been modified to meet health guidelines. Read Article Open details for PHOTOS: Some in-person activities resume at Brown, with creative twists to maintain health and safety Social Sciences Political, environmental, race scholars share presidential debate takeaways October 23, 2020 Faculty at Brown shared their thoughts on the final televised presidential debate before the 2020 election, where the two major candidates sparred over COVID-19, climate change and racial justice. Read Article Open details for Political, environmental, race scholars share presidential debate takeaways Health and Medicine Amid pandemic, U.S. must reduce incarceration to protect public safety, report finds October 22, 2020 Dr. Josiah “Jody” Rich, a Brown professor of medicine and epidemiology, joined a panel of experts assembled by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine to explore ways to combat coronavirus behind bars. Read Article Open details for Amid pandemic, U.S. must reduce incarceration to protect public safety, report finds Student Life Students, staff and faculty join forces to mobilize student voters at Brown October 21, 2020 With the pandemic presenting new obstacles to voter turnout, collaborative initiatives are enabling and encouraging student participation in the 2020 election and setting the stage for a lifetime of civic engagement. Read Article Open details for Students, staff and faculty join forces to mobilize student voters at Brown Health and Medicine Study discovers potential target for treating aggressive cancer cells October 21, 2020 New research by a team at Brown University finds that special filaments called vimentin may be key to the spread of some aggressive, chemo-resistant cancer cells. Read Article Open details for Study discovers potential target for treating aggressive cancer cells Arts and Humanities New series of discussions, performances and podcasts will focus on the migrant experience October 20, 2020 A Sawyer Seminar grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation will fund a series of Brown University-based events and community partnerships focused on migration from and within Latin America and the Caribbean. Read Article Open details for New series of discussions, performances and podcasts will focus on the migrant experience News and Events First Readings to focus on historical ties, present-day legacies of slavery October 16, 2020 Students in Brown’s undergraduate Class of 2024 will read a digitized version of the pioneering “Slavery and Justice Report,” the selected text for this year’s First Readings program. Read Article Open details for First Readings to focus on historical ties, present-day legacies of slavery Health and Medicine Early-career biostatistics scholar from Brown wins prestigious Packard fellowship October 15, 2020 Brown School of Public Health faculty member Lorin Crawford will receive $875,000 over five years to pursue research in statistics, genomics and applied mathematics. Read Article Open details for Early-career biostatistics scholar from Brown wins prestigious Packard fellowship Science and Technology Brown scientist to play key role in $10M study of cell structure in diseases, disorders and aging October 15, 2020 Nicola Neretti to join a new five-year, $10 million research effort funded by the National Institutes of Health to investigate how changes in cell structure can affect health and disease. Read Article Open details for Brown scientist to play key role in $10M study of cell structure in diseases, disorders and aging Environment Researchers step toward understanding how toxic PFAS chemicals spread from release sites October 15, 2020 New lab studies are helping researchers to better understand how so called “forever chemicals” behave in soil and water, which can help in understanding how these contaminants spread. Read Article Open details for Researchers step toward understanding how toxic PFAS chemicals spread from release sites Science and Technology Researchers discuss BrainGate, restorative neurotechnology at Brown and beyond October 14, 2020 In a conversation with leaders of Brown’s Carney Institute for Brain Science, two Brown neuroengineers explored how brain-computer interfaces promise to help restore movement in people with brain or spinal disorders. Read Article Open details for Researchers discuss BrainGate, restorative neurotechnology at Brown and beyond Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 Next Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search 2020 News Open details for 2020 News Bookmark this Page