Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Academic Success Center GPA Calculator *For Undergraduate Student Use Only* This tool may be used to assist students in better understanding how various scenarios impact their cumulative Clemson GPA. Students may utilize this tool to: Predict the impact of anticipated grades in courses in which a student is currently enrolled Understand the impact utilizing Academic Forgiveness can have on a student's cumulative Clemson GPA. Consider the Following Prior to Utilizing this Tool The calculated GPA fields on this page take into account all data entered in the fields that precede it. For any features students do not want considered in the calculated GPA, the data fields should be left blank. This calculator is intended for undergraduate use only. Transfer coursework does not impact your Clemson GPA. Only grades of A, B, C, D, F, or I impact your Clemson GPA; therefore, P/NP is not an option in the drop down menu. Note: Information used in this calculation is unofficial. Therefore, this should be used only as a planning tool to estimate your GPA. Your official GPA may be impacted by many factors including, but not limited to, academic forgiveness, incomplete grades, grade corrections, and repeated courses. Getting Started Students using this tool will need to access their Clemson academic transcript to enter their current information related to GPA Hours and Quality Points into the calculator fields. Students may access their transcripts as follows: Log into iRoar Select the Student tab Select Student Records Select Academic Transcript Choose the undergraduate level Submit Students must scroll to the bottom of the transcript until they identify the section titled Transcript Totals (Undergraduate). Students will see the following columns: Attempted Hours, Passed Hours, Earned Hours, GPA Hours, Quality Points, and GPA. The calculator requires that students enter data from columns entitled GPA Hours and Quality Points. Students can verify the calculated GPA below by referring to their academic transcript. Total GPA Hours: Total Quality Points: Current GPA: Predict the Impact of Anticipated Grades in Currently Enrolled Courses Students may enter credit hours and anticipated grades for up to ten courses in the fields below. The calculator will then provide your predicted end of term GPA based on these entries. Credit hours for Pass (P)/No Pass (NP) graded courses should not be entered because quality points are not earned for grades of P/NP and therefore do not impact a student's GPA. Enter your predicted course hours and grades Credit Hours Predicted Grade Course 1 Credit Hours: 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Predicted Grade: A B C D F Course 2 Credit Hours: 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Predicted Grade: A B C D F Course 3 Credit Hours: 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Predicted Grade: A B C D F + Add Course - Remove Course Calculated GPA Calculated GPA New GPA Hours New Qual Pts Earned New GPA Understand the Impact of Academic Forgiveness Students considering academic forgiveness should consult their academic advisor and information available on the Registrar’s website. Students may enter credit hours and earned grades (D or F) for up to three courses being considered for academic forgiveness. The calculator will then provide an updated GPA based on utilization of academic forgiveness. Students may choose whether or not current term GPA information input in the above calculations are included in the current calculation by using the toggle below. Include anticipated term GPA information from above in this calculation? Yes No Forgiven Course Hours and Grades Credit Hours Grade Forgiven Course 1 Credit Hours: 0 1 2 3 4 5 Grade: D F Forgiven Course 2 Credit Hours: 0 1 2 3 4 5 Grade: D F Forgiven Course 3 Credit Hours: 0 1 2 3 4 5 Grade: D F Calculated GPA Calculated GPA New GPA Hours New Qual Pts Earned New GPA Calculate Performance Necessary to Achieve Desired GPA Students may enter their desired cumulative GPA and currently enrolled credit hours for the current term. The calculator will then provide the quality points and GPA the student must earn for the current term to achieve the desired cumulative GPA. Pass (P)/No Pass (NP) graded courses should not be entered because quality points are not earned for grades of P/NP and therefore do not impact a student's GPA. Information input in “Predict the Impact of Anticipated Grades in Currently Enrolled Courses” is not included in the current calculation. Students may choose whether or not academic forgiveness information input in the above calculation is included in the current calculation by using the toggle below. Include forgiven courses in this calculation? Yes No Desired GPA: Enrolled Credit Hours: Necessary Performance Necessary Performance Required Semester Quality Points Required Term GPA Note: If the required term GPA calculated is above a 4.0, the desired cumulative GPA is unobtainable based on the information the student provided. Home About the Center About the Class of 1956 ASC Awards Academic Advising Success Matters CU 1000 For New Students and Families For Faculty and Staff For Prospective Student Employees Contact Us Related Links Academic Advising Academic Eligibility Policy Academic Forgiveness Policy Center for Career and Professional Development Catalog, Undergraduate Courses Counseling and Psychological Services Libraries Majors Ombuds, Undergraduate Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Student Accessibility Services Undergraduate Studies Writing Center Downloads ASC Annual Report Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram