Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Academic Centers Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Previous Next pause play hide show The Jennifer M. Collins Women’s Leadership Initiative aims to enhance the leadership and professional skills of women SMU Law students and practicing attorneys and address the unique challenges they may face during their education and throughout their careers. Led by Dedman Law Director of Alumni Relations Christine Leatherberry, this Initiative addresses issues such as retaining women in the legal profession, elevating women in leadership positions, and enhancing rainmaking and networking skills. The Braly Family Foundation gift establishes the Jennifer M. Collins Women’s Leadership Initiative A gift generously given by The Braly Family Foundation in honor of Jennifer Collins, Dean of SMU Dedman School of Law, will establish the Jennifer M. Collins Women’s Leadership Initiative at SMU Dedman School of Law. Learn more A History of SMU Law Women 1925 Erin Bain Jones ’28 enrolls in first law school class at SMU and becomes first woman to graduate from SMU School of Law 1949 Patsy Smith ’49 graduates from SMU School of Law and becomes one of the first women attorneys in Lubbock 1954 Louise Raggio ’52 becomes the first woman assistant district attorney in Dallas County 1955 Ruby Braden Curl becomes first African-American student admitted at SMU School of Law 1959 Frances Spears Cloyd ’59 becomes first woman to earn an L.L.M. degree from SMU School of Law 1961 Earldean V.S. Robbins becomes first African-American student to graduate SMU School of Law 1961 Adelfa Botello Callejo ’61 becomes first Hispanic woman to graduate from SMU School of Law, as well as first Hispanic woman to practice law in Dallas 1967 Led by State Bar of Texas Family Law Section chair and alum Louise Raggio ’52 and SMU Law Professor Joseph W. McKnight, the Marital Property Bill is enacted into law, enabling women to conduct certain financial and business transactions without their husbands’ permission. 1968 Joan Tarpley Winn ’68 graduates SMU School of Law and becomes the first African-American woman to practice law in Dallas County 1970 Beverly Carl becomes first woman tenured full professor at SMU School of Law 1975 Five SMU Law women law students who were denied summer clerkships in favor of male students with inferior grades filed suit against law firms they had applied to at the time. Chief Judge Barbara Lynn ’76 was one of those five students. Four of the five law firms settled and they soon had women lawyers at their firms. 1978 Joan Tarpley Winn ’68 becomes the first African-American woman to be appointed to a district court 1981 Sharon N. Freytag ’81 becomes first woman Editor-in-Chief of the SMU Law Review (formerly The Southwestern Law Journal) 1983 Annette Stewart ’66 becomes first woman appointed to the Dallas Court of Appeals 1985 Harriet E. Miers ’70 becomes first woman to serve as Dallas Bar Association President 1988 Barbara Culver ’51 becomes the second woman appointed as a Justice of the Texas Supreme Court 1992 Illona Sheffey Rawlings becomes first African-American woman to serve on the faculty 1992-1993 Harriet Miers ’70 becomes first woman to serve as State Bar of Texas President 2004 Rhonda Hunter ’80 becomes the first person of color to serve as Dallas Bar Association President 2011 Sarah Saldaña ’84 becomes first Hispanic woman to serve as a U.S. Attorney in Texas 2013 Mary L. Murphy ’83 becomes first woman to serve as an administrative regional judge in Texas 2013-2014 Julie Forrester becomes the first woman dean ad interim at SMU Dedman School of Law 2014 Jennifer M. Collins becomes the first woman dean at SMU Dedman School of Law 2015 Jessica Dixon Weaver becomes first African-American woman to earn tenure 2016 Barbara M.G. Lynn ’76 becomes first woman appointed as Chief Judge of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas 2017 Lolita Bucker Inniss becomes first African-American woman appointed as full professor 2019 Laura Geisler ’97 becomes first Hispanic to serve as Dallas Bar Association President Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Contact Events Show your Support! Give now. Email Signup Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram