Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Campus Life Life at Xavier Some of the best moments in college happen outside the classroom. With more than 160 clubs, a supportive campus community and a city full of opportunity, students from all over the nation and globe come together to find their passions and thrive at Xavier University. Explore student life on campus and beyond. Housing First-year students have a few different options for living on campus. These include Brockman Hall, Buenger Hall, Kuhlman Hall and Husman Hall. Dining The Hoff Dining Commons offers meal stations, daily menus and meal plan options for Xavier students. Off campus restaurants include pizza, chili and more. Clubs Students are active in more than 160 clubs: everything from fencing to football, theater to community service. Service As members of a Jesuit university, coming together to engage in community service is a vital part of learning and fulfilling our mission. Recreational Sports Musketeers come first in character, commitment and class—both on the field and in the classroom. Diversity More than 7,000 people call Xavier home. Our differences and experiences add up to strengthen our community and classrooms. First-Year Experience Xavier’s core curriculum includes opportunities for students to explore their passions during their first year and beyond. Health and Wellness Campus resources include general medicine/preventative care, sick visits, lab services, counseling and a brand-new recreational facility. Cincinnati Cincinnati is home to eight Fortune 500 companies as well as countless places to get professional experience and have fun. Four Unforgettable Years The Jesuit model of teaching goes beyond textbooks and classrooms. It encourages students to round out their academics through service, community engagement and extracurricular activities. But don’t just take our word for it. Hear what students love most about life on campus. Xavier was the place where I felt most at home, where I knew I could make a difference and become the person I aspire to be. Over the last three years I've become a leader on this campus, as well as in my community, as I work for the Cincinnati Recreation Commission and serve as its Youth & Teen Council Adviser. Ihsan Walker Spanish, Criminal Justice, 2020 Xavier is a very community-oriented school. You definitely feel like you're a part of it. You don't feel like you're just a number. You know people. It's small so that you can make those connections, but it's not too small that you feel like you know every single person. Kyle Gilliam Economics, 2019 Xavier is the best place in the world. I mean the people here, the community, everything about it. You’ll find people who you can click with, who will help you to grow, who you'll be able to help them to grow. Elizabeth Zalla Communication Studies, Advertising, 2019 Get More Information Honors Programs Financial Aid Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram