Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Apply Programs Campus Life Resources News Support UofM Lambuth Contact Us Follow UsFacebooktwitter Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Home UofM Lambuth Support Take Action Lambuth Admissions Lambuth Academy News & Events Contact Us Honoring the Past, Building the Future When the University of Memphis acquired the Lambuth University property in 2011, it inherited a prominent liberal arts institution with roots reaching back to its founding in 1843. Rich in history and steeped in tradition, Lambuth produced generations of leaders in education, ministry, law and business. While we honor MCFI-Lambuth’s past, the UofM is moving forward with a bright future for the picturesque campus. With all the power of a major public research university behind it, the UofM Lambuth brings visionary learning to West Tennessee. We firmly believe that excellence in higher education knows no limits and no boundaries. We invite you to consider making a tax-deductible contribution to support the future of UofM Lambuth. Your gift will provide support for undergraduate scholarships, graduate fellowships, faculty awards and facility improvement projects. You can feel secure that your gift will be used for the benefit of the Lambuth campus. You may contribute to one of the funds already established or create a new named fund for a minimum amount. Please contact the Development Office at 731.425.7400 for more information. Lambuth Campus Initiatives Lambuth Historic Preservation Fund (LHPS) The LHP Fund was established by Lambuth Alumni in order provide funding for the preservation of MCFI-Lambuth’s legacy through special projects. The fund is supported and managed by the Lambuth Historic Preservation Society. Lambuth Food Pantry Launched in the Fall 2019 semester, the pantry provides our students with needed food, water, and personal hygiene products. Annual Gift Funds University of Memphis Lambuth Campus Fund Provides support for an area of greatest needs. Lambuth Need-Based Scholarship Fund Many students have financial barriers that prevent them from earning a college degree. Your support will help them pay for the cost of attending college. Lambuth Spirit Faculty Development Award Fund Provides support to enhance a faculty member's teaching or research activities. Lambuth Alumni Chapter Scholarship The Lambuth Alumni are dedicated to ensuring access and affordability for all students. This scholarship helps students attending the UofM Lambuth Campus. Make A Gift to an Annual Fund > Planned Giving In addition to making an immediate gift, you can also support UofM Lambuth through thoughtful charitable gift planning. Including the University in your estate plan is one of the most popular ways to support our mission. You can specify that UofM Lambuth is to receive a certain amount or percentage of your estate, particular assets or the remainder of your estate after providing for heirs. If you have designated Lambuth University in your current estate document, be sure to change the beneficiary name to University of Memphis – Lambuth Campus. Donors also find that giving gifts of appreciated stocks and securities, properties, and trust agreements can provide significant tax and income benefits. To discover and learn about the best assets to meet your charitable giving goals or for the appropriate bequest language, contact the UofM Office of Planned Giving at 901.678.2732. Contact Us For more information or to make a gift, contact Michele Sides, Development Director, at Michele.Sides@memphis.edu or 731.435.9665. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/9/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.