Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES SLAVIC LANGUAGES & LITERATURES Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 SLAVIC 101 Slavic Lands and Peoples (5) I&S Introduces students to basic concepts regarding the whole body of present-day Slavs as well as the area inhabited by or under the influence of present-day Slavs. Uses latest achievements in technology and in social media advancements to retrieve relevant information from present-day Slavs themselves. Taught in English. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 101 SLAVIC 110 The Slavic Languages (5) VLPA Introduces the basic concepts of Slavic linguistics. Addresses the origin of the Slavs and major stages of their linguistic history. Considers Slavic languages and their peculiarities in detail. Taught in English. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 110 SLAVIC 130 Introduction to Slavic Culture and Civilization (5) VLPA Examines the culture of the Slavs, an ethno-linguistic group of peoples living primarily in Central/Eastern Europe. Among nations investigated: the Czech Republic, Russia, Poland, and Ukraine. Students gain a fundamental grasp of major issues and historical events of this region, expressed through culture. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 130. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 130 SLAVIC 175 The Slavic Text and Its Context (2/3, max. 10) VLPA A contextual study of a significant work or intellectual movement from a Slavic culture. Study includes literature, film, music, or art. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 175 SLAVIC 200 Introduction to Slavic Literature (5) VLPA Gordana P Crnkovic Introduces major Slavic literary works of different types (stories, novels, poetry), mostly from the 20th and 21st century, focusing on the intense "close reading" of these texts that identifies their main literary features. Excellent beginning training for the informed reading of any kind of literature. Taught in English. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 200 SLAVIC 210 Introduction to Bilingualism (5) VLPA/I&S K. DZIWIREK A multidisciplinary examination of bilingualism as a societal and individual phenomenon. Considers language versus dialect, diglossia, state language policies, language rights, indigenous languages, and linguistic minorities. Explores bilingualism and biculturalism as human experience and as indexes of identity and diversity. Includes a fieldwork project focused on linguistic diversity in the Pacific Northwest. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 210 SLAVIC 223 East European Cinema (5, max. 20) VLPA Emphasizes international cultural, artistic, and historical diversity by introducing select contemporary Eastern European film directors. Focuses on a single filmmaker and studies his/her opus in depth, both in his/her Eastern European country of origin and abroad. Special attention paid to Eastern European filmmakers in Hollywood. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 223 SLAVIC 320 The Other Europe: Post-World War II East European Fiction (5) VLPA Crnkovic Introduces post-WWII Eastern European fiction created during and after the communist era, both in Eastern European countries and in exile. Includes works by Polish, Czech, Yugoslav, post-Yugoslav, Hungarian, and Baltic writers. Taught in English. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 320 SLAVIC 323 Masterpieces of East European Cinema (5) VLPA Crnkovic Studies aesthetically most interesting films from Eastern Europe from the 1950s to present. Includes select films by Polish film icon Andrzej Wajda, the Czech 1960s New Wave, the Zagreb School of Animated Film, works by Eastern European women directors, as well as more recent internationally awarded and acclaimed films. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 323 SLAVIC 351 Introduction to the History of Slavic Languages (5) VLPA History of Slavic languages from Indo-European to present time, including development of writing systems and national languages. Principles of historical linguistics: sound change, analogy, semantic change, as well as relevance of historical linguistics to our knowledge of human development, ancestral culture, etc. Prerequisite: either SLAVIC 110, LING 200, or LING 400. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 351 SLAVIC 370 What is in a Language Name? The Case of Bosnian, Croatian, Montenegrin, and Serbian (5) VLPA Examines diverse phenomena related to the language known as Serbo-Croatian, and to the Bosnian, Croatian, Montenegrin, and Serbian languages. Explores concepts such as language death, birth, politics, standardization, and codification. The relation between dialect and language is observed in an ecology exhibiting ethnic and religious diversity. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 370 SLAVIC 401 Research Methods and Writing (2) Introduces writing and research in Slavic studies. Students review secondary literature in their chosen fields, rewrite and revise their own work to bring it up to discipline standard, and work collaboratively to evaluate their own work and that of their peers. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 401 SLAVIC 423 East European Film (5, max. 15) VLPA Crnkovic Studies major East European film makers who left their countries at some point in their careers. Compares East European and Western production of those directors who worked partially in the West. Offered: jointly with CMS 423. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 423 SLAVIC 425 Ways of Meaning: Universal and Culture Specific Aspects of Language (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV K. Dziwirek Focuses on the diversity of human experience and the social and cultural conditioning of language use. Language as a mirror of culture and national character. Universal and culture/language specific components in linguistic expression of emotions, courtesy/politeness and rudeness, prejudice and (in)sensitivities, linguistic expression of gender differences in different cultures. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 425 SLAVIC 426 Ways of Feeling: Expressions of Emotions Across Languages and Cultures (5) I&S/VLPA K. DZIWIREK Investigate the diversity of human experience by focusing on culture specific aspects of linguistic expression of emotion. Examination of the meaning and form of emotion words in different languages, facial expressions, cultural attitudes to emotion and emotional behavior, and gender-specific emotional expressions. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 426 SLAVIC 470 Special Topics in Slavic Linguistics (3-5, max. 15) VLPA Augerot, Belic, Dziwirek Special topics in Slavic linguistics. Course offerings based on instructor's specialty and student demand. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 470 SLAVIC 481 East European Language in Eastern Europe (1-5, max. 45) VLPA Daily work in phonetic, grammar, conversation, translation, analytical reading, stylistics, newspaper analysis, and advanced syntax. Provides an opportunity to earn credits while studying in Eastern Europe. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 481 SLAVIC 482 Research Project in Eastern Europe (3, max. 15) VLPA Supervised research in student's selected area of concentration, combined with language instruction tailored to the student's field. Provides an opportunity to earn credits while studying in Eastern Europe. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 482 SLAVIC 483 East European Literature in Eastern Europe (3, max. 15) VLPA Selection of courses on specialized topics in East European literature; specific authors or periods. Provides an opportunity to earn credits while studying in Eastern Europe. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 483 SLAVIC 486 East European Culture in Eastern Europe (3, max. 15) VLPA Lectures on various aspects of Eastern European culture, complemented by visits to places of cultural historical interest. Provides an opportunity to earn credits while studying in Eastern Europe. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 486 SLAVIC 490 Studies in Slavic Literatures (3-5, max. 15) VLPA Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 490 SLAVIC 498 Senior Honors Thesis ([3-9]-, max. 9) VLPA Directed research on a topic approved by department for a thesis presented in partial fulfillment of requirement for degrees "With College Honors" or "With Distinction." Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 498 SLAVIC 501 Using Slavic Resources (2) Introduction to graduate studies in Slavic languages, literatures, and cultures. Discusses field of study and research materials and techniques employed. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 501 SLAVIC 518 Foreign Language Teaching Methodology (2) Brandl Current foreign language teaching methods and approaches. Learning and teaching strategies and techniques for the four skills (reading, writing, speaking, listening) including cultural notions. Current and future trends in pedagogy and technology. Offered: jointly with GERMAN 518/SCAND 518; A. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 518 SLAVIC 519 Slavic Language Pedagogy (3, max. 6) Augerot, Belic Introduction to current issues of foreign language pedagogy. Concentrates on the practical classroom application of methodological theory through lectures and micro-teaching presentation. Topics discussed and practiced include testing, proficiency teaching, teaching listening and reading skills, writing, teaching grammar, and computers. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 519 SLAVIC 520 New Trends in Literary Theory (5) Crnkovic Explores recent theoretical trends which no longer search for a unified theoretical meta-narrative (i.e., post-structuralism or new historicism), but instead explore various literary genres (such as diary or fictional book reviews) and texts as the primary terrain of theory. Bakhtin, Lem, Bruns, Corradi-Fiumara, Crnkovic, and others. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 520 SLAVIC 550 Synchronic Slavic Linguistics (5) Linguistic analysis of the phonology, morphology, and syntax of Russian and other Slavic languages. Investigation of current theoretical work in these areas. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 550 SLAVIC 551 Introduction to the History of Slavic Languages (5) History of Slavic languages from Indo-European to present time, including development of writing systems and national languages. Principles of historical linguistics: sound change, analogy, semantic change, as well as relevance of historical linguistics to our knowledge of human development, ancestral culture, etc. Prerequisite: either SLAVIC 110, LING 200, or LING 400. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 551 SLAVIC 561 History of the East Slavic Languages (5) Designed to acquaint majors in Slavic linguistics with the details of the historical development of the phonological and morphological structure of the Ukrainian and Byelorussian literary languages. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 561 SLAVIC 562 History of the West Slavic Languages (5) Designed to acquaint majors in Slavic linguistics with the details of the historical development of the phonological and morphological structure of literary Polish, Czech, Slovak, and Upper and Lower Sorbian languages. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 562 SLAVIC 563 History of the South Slavic Languages (5) Designed to acquaint majors in Slavic linguistics with the details of the historical development of the phonological and morphological structure of the South Slavic languages. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 563 SLAVIC 565 Old Church Slavic (5) Rise and development of earliest Slavic literary language and a descriptive study of its orthography, phonology, morphology, and syntax. Readings from normalized texts. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 565 SLAVIC 566 Readings in Old Church Slavic (4) Reading and grammatical interpretation of a selected group of canonical texts, as well as some examples of the various later recensions of Old Church Slavonic. Prerequisite: SLAVIC 565. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 566 SLAVIC 570 Special Topics in Slavic Linguistics (3-5, max. 15) Investigation and discussion of special topics in Slavic linguistics. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 570 SLAVIC 580 Dissertation Workshop (5, max. 20) Galya Diment For graduate students in literature, film, or linguistics planning or already writing dissertations. May be taken by students pursuing Master of Arts thesis, with permission of instructor. Weekly meetings, readings, and discussing chapters and outlines submitted by participants and instructor. Prerequisite: either Candidate of Philosophy status, nearing Doctor of Philosophy exams, or permission of instructor; recommended: graduate-level course work in either literature, film, or linguistics. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 580 SLAVIC 590 Seminar in Translation Studies (5, max. 15) Topics in translation studies and Slavic literatures/cultures. Recommended: advanced proficiency in a Slavic language. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 590 SLAVIC 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 600 SLAVIC 700 Master's Thesis (1-10, max. 30) Limited to premaster graduate students. Prerequisite: permission of Supervisory Committee or graduate program adviser. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 700 SLAVIC 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) View course details in MyPlan: SLAVIC 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022