Skip to main content Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Animal Owners Veterinarians Directory Toggle Navigation Menu Think and Do The Extraordinary GIVE to the College About CVM Community & Culture Dean’s Office College Leadership Departments Virtual Tour Fast Facts Awards and Honors Mission Directions Education DVM Program Graduate Program Residencies Internships Contact Academic Affairs Accreditation Student Life House System Student News Diversity White Coat Ceremony Research Researchers Areas of Emphasis Departments Centers Clinical Trials Diagnostic and Research Labs Industry Partners CVM Postdocs Contact Office of Research Global Health Outreach Continuing Education DVM Student Visitor Program CVM Visitor Program News Hospital Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State CVM About CVM Education Student Life Research Global Health Outreach News Hospital Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Animal Owners Veterinarians Directory Full Site Navigation About CVM Community & Culture Dean’s Office College Leadership Departments Virtual Tour Fast Facts Awards and Honors Mission Directions Education DVM Program Graduate Program Residencies Internships Contact Academic Affairs Accreditation Student Life House System Student News Diversity Office of Diversity Mission Statement Programs Resources White Coat Ceremony Research Researchers Areas of Emphasis Departments Centers Clinical Trials Diagnostic and Research Labs Industry Partners CVM Postdocs Contact Office of Research Outreach Continuing Education DVM Student Visitor Program CVM Visitor Program Directory Alphabetical Listing Department Listing By People Faculty Leadership Researchers Staff By Unit Administration Clinical Sciences Hospital Molecular Biomedical Sciences Population Health and Pathobiology By Research Area of Emphasis Biological Barriers Computational Biology and Bioinformatics Gastroenterology Genetics Global Health Immunology Infectious Diseases Neurobiology Pharmacology Regenerative Medicine Spontaneous Animal Disease Models Veterinary Cancer Care By Focus Area Avian and Exotics Clinician Scientist Epidemiology Equine Practice Food Animal Graduate - Cell Biology Graduate - Infectious Diseases Graduate - Pathology Graduate - Pharmacology Graduate - Population Medicine Graduate - Public Health Graduate – Immunology Laboratory Animal Mixed Animal Practice Pathology Small Animal Practice Zoological Medicine Office of Diversity Diversity is critical to the CVM’s academic mission. New perspectives deepen our understanding, strengthen our community and propel our innovation. Mission Statement North Carolina State University College of Veterinary Medicine strives to be the premiere institution for training and preparing future leaders in veterinary medicine and research sciences. We are committed to excellence. Diversity and inclusion are vital to our goal. We recognize that a diverse community generates diverse thought necessary to successfully create relevant and effective solutions to complex challenges. We choose to be a culture that values diversity, inclusion, respect, empathy and equality for all. Diversity at North Carolina State University College of Veterinary Medicine is defined as the active incorporation throughout our college of people from various backgrounds, perspectives, thoughts and beliefs. Diversity is not limited to race, ethnicity, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, age or physical ability but rather represents the wide range of visible and invisible differences and similarities that make each of us unique. Inclusion at North Carolina State University College of Veterinary Medicine is defined as the practice of intentionally building a culture that values diversity of people and ideas and embraces the meaningful participation of all. At North Carolina State University College of Veterinary Medicine it is our vision that the positive lessons of valuing diversity and inclusion will extend well beyond our college community and have broader far reaching impacts on the future profession of veterinary medicine. Diversity Matters View Diversity at NC State Overview Diversity in the News NC State Veterinary Medicine News and Updates, May 2022 In the Spotlight CVM Class of 2022 Celebrates Hard-Earned Oath & Hooding Moment When members of the Class of 2022 showed up for the first day of classes, little did they know that a global pandemic would turn their path to a degree in veterinary medicine upside down. Having endured COVID testing, distance learning, social… Outstanding Mobile Vet Service Earns Cannedy Coat of Excellence Director of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs honored with a Coat of Excellence by Susan Ward for his work as a large animal veterinarian. Grant Expands Reach of Research Trip to South Africa Three NC State students, including a third-year CVM student, are working among wildlife in South Africa this month thanks to a seed grant awarded to help expand the involvement of minority students in global field research. Veterinary Students as One In Culture and Ethnicity: VOICE JOIN US The NC State CVM chapter of Veterinary Students as One In Culture and Ethnicity is a student-run organization that addresses a need for sociocultural awareness that is not part of the current core veterinary curriculum. We are an organized and unified student voice contributing to enhancing the diversity of the profession and the cultural competence of veterinary students. Join Us Project SAFE Ally Program CVM ProjectSAFE Allies: Dean Paul Lunn, April Kedrowicz, Jeff Huckel, Kris Alpi, Kirk Nuss, Nikkiya White and Allen Cannedy. The Project SAFE Ally program is a three-hour workshop that NC State CVM undergraduates, graduate students, staff, faculty and alumni participate in to understand and address the needs of GLBT students. The CVM contributes over 25 allies to this initiative. The curriculum addresses a wide range of information, including: Identity terms associated with the GLBT community Issues that GLBT students often deal with during the coming out process Concerns that GLBT students face both in and out of the classroom Ways that allies can create inclusive environments The on- and off-campus resources available to students Become an Ally Programs Cultural Awareness Modules Between five and eight Cultural Awareness Modules are offered each year on a variety of subjects and in a variety of formats. The goal of the modules is to provide exposure and education to the students, faculty, and staff of NC State’s CVM on multicultural issues, populations, practices and other areas. Topics have included Native Americans, GLBT, Hispanic Culture, and the Muslim religion. Formats have included luncheons, panels, speakers, movies and discussion and others. BASIC Race Awareness Seminar (Designed by Civil Rights Activist C.T. Vivian) The BASIC (Black Action Strategies & Information Center) Race Awareness Seminar has a long history at NC State. Our university first sponsored this two-day seminar in 1975 and has since graduated over 1,000 participants. Designed and often facilitated by renowned civil rights activist C. T. Vivian, this seminar requires participants to engage in an intense, honest appraisal of their individual and collective racial attitudes. NC State’s CVM has sent 100 students, faculty, and staff to this seminar. Click here for more information. NCBI The National Coalition Building Institute (NCBI) has conducted programs on hundreds of college and university campuses across North American and the Pacific. They have launched campus affiliate chapters on sixty campuses where faculty, students, and administrators have made an institutional commitment to using NCBI programs as a mechanism to provide an ongoing response to discrimination, oppression and handling controversial issues. An NCBI campus affiliate is made up of a team of students, faculty and staff from various disciplines who provide a powerful leadership resource for the campus. The team provides pro-active workshops to improve the overall campus climate for diversity by building a more inclusive environment and teaches skills in how to effectively shift prejudicial attitudes and be powerful allies for one another. The team is also trained to intervene when tough intergroup conflict arises on the campus or between the campus and the community. NC State’s CVM has had 100 students, faculty, and staff participate in NCBI trainings and now has 100 NCBI trainers on staff who have completed a 3 day train the trainer training session. Click here for more information. Community Outreach The Students, Faculty, and staff of the College of Veterinary Medicine embrace NC State’s mission of community outreach and engagement. CVM representatives are active in the community, the state, the nation, and the world. Resources CCDI Incident Response Chart NCAMV The North Carolina Association of Minority Veterinarians is the association dedicated to promoting diversity, collegiality among its members, and to provide a forum to discuss concerns of minority veterinarians in North Carolina. Pride VMC Pride VMC is an organization that promotes acceptance and leadership for all people regardless of sexual orientation, occupation, or education. In 2013, it celebrated the 20th anniversary of its founding. Currently, there are 200 members and another 100 student members. Diversity Committee Co-Chairs Korinn Saker, DVM, PhD, Dipl. ACVN Molecular Biomedical Sciences kesaker@ncsu.edu M. Mitsu Suyemoto Population Health and Pathobiology mmsuyemo@ncsu.edu Faculty & Staff Allen Cannedy, DVM Administration alcanned@ncsu.edu Bobbie Ditzler, DVM Administration bjditzle@ncsu.edu Peter Early, DVM, DACVIM Clinical Sciences pjearly@ncsu.edu Kelli Ferris, DVM Clinical Sciences kkferris@ncsu.edu Stacie Rae Gallenstein, DVM Molecular Biomedical Sciences sgallen2@ncsu.edu Erika Jane Gruber, DVM, PhD, DACVP Population Health and Pathobiology ejgruber@ncsu.edu Monique Danielle Pairis Garcia, DVM, PhD, DACAW Population Health and Pathobiology mpairis@ncsu.edu Korinn Saker, DVM, PhD, Dipl. ACVN Molecular Biomedical Sciences kesaker@ncsu.edu M. Mitsu Suyemoto Population Health and Pathobiology mmsuyemo@ncsu.edu Brittany Veerasammy, DVM Hospital baveeras@ncsu.edu Students Gabrielle Elders Manrique Miranda Vindas Daiannette Lopez Lakhia Fuller Monserrat Cuevas Tahj Boston Annie Wang Jasmine Olivares Nia Powell Rachel Park Diversity Committee Bylaws and Meeting Minutes: Bylaws for the College of Veterinary Medicine North Carolina State University Meeting Minutes 1060 William Moore Drive Raleigh, NC 27607 919.513.6461 About the Site Accessibility Copyright Diversity Site Map MyPack Portal Directory Libraries Jobs Policies Privacy Contact Map facebook youtube twitter instragram flickr linkedIn pinterest © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.