Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission International Obtaining an SMU I-20 Obtaining an SMU I-20 International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an SMU I-20 International Students who are admitted into a degree program at Southern Methodist University will need to obtain a Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status (Form I-20) in order to enter and/or remain in the U.S. as an F-1 student. The United States government requires all international applicants to provide proof of ability to pay tuition and living expenses before SMU can issue the forms required to obtain a visa. This requirement applies both to international students coming from abroad and those transferring from another U.S. university or institution. For SMU to issue you a Form I-20, you will need to submit: 1. The International Student Financial Statement form. Section one and section two must be completed, including the signatures of both you (the student) and your sponsor. 2. A copy of the picture page from your passport 3. Original Financial Verification from Bank or Financial Institution, on bank letterhead, from you or your sponsor, must be dated within six months of the time of I-20 issuance. Account balance(s) must be shown in an amount greater than or equal to the total estimated costs below. - Any scholarship amount awarded by SMU can be submitted as part of the financial support documents. An example of the wording that can be used follows: “I hereby certify that according to our records, SPONSOR’S NAME, the sponsor of STUDENT’S NAME, is capable of meeting the $87,052 education expenses of the student as indicated on the Estimated Undergraduate Cost form." The bank letter must be translated into English and current balance in U.S. dollars. If you are currently attending an institution in the US (college or high school) you will need to arrange for the release of your SEVIS record to SMU once your program is completed. The SMU International Student & Scholar Service Office will process your I-20 request after all required materials have been submitted to the SMU Office of Undergraduate Admission. Please expect approximately two weeks after your documents have been received for your Form I-20 to be processed. A digital copy of your Form I-20 will be e-mailed to you so you can make your visa appointments at the US Embassy near you. Estimated Undergraduate Costs The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) requires that all foreign passport holders planning to study in the United States verify that appropriate funds are available to pay for education, living, and other expenses. This verification is needed in order to process and issue the required I-20 document. The estimated expenses expected to be incurred during the 2022-2023 academic year are as follows: 2022-2023 Education, Living, and Other Expenses Estimated Cost Fall and Spring Tuition $55,012 Estimated General Student Fees $6,968 Housing (double room with roommate) and meal plan $17,750 Mandatory Health Insurance Purchased through SMU $3,646 International Fee $200 Books and Supplies $3,476 Total $87,052 USD Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search