Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Work at Princeton Making a Difference Opportunity & Impact At Princeton, every member of our community plays an important role in our mission of teaching and research. That mission provides every faculty and staff member with the opportunity to make an impact bigger than oneself. Meet some of our wonderful colleagues below. Already interested in working at Princeton? Faculty member and academic professional opportunities Staff member opportunities Susan Stewart . A poet and critic, Susan Stewart joined the Princeton faculty in 2004 and teaches the history of poetry, poetics, and issues in aesthetics. A former MacArthur Fellow, Stewart is the author of five collections of poetry and has also translated works by French and Italian poets. Learn More Yan Schvartzshnaider and Vanisha Lakhina . Two Princeton postdocs have worked diligently to develop social and educational programming for fellow postdocs at Princeton. Learn More Dan-el Padilla Peralta . In 2006, Dan-el Padilla Peralta was Princeton University salutatorian; now he is an assistant professor of classics. Learn More Robert Staudt . The University's grounds manager stands in front of what Princeton recycles — about 98 percent of vegetative products, such as fallen leaves, make mulch, compost and soil used in campus gardens. Learn more Kimberly Leaman . As a special collections assistant in the Near East studies section of the Collection Development Department, Kimberly Leaman is responsible for maintaining and expanding a world-renowned collection of serial publications in all the languages of the Middle East. Learn More Lisa Lonie . Lisa Lonie is the fourth University Carilloneur in the carillon's nearly 90-year history. She is also the first woman to hold the title, which comes with a great view from the top of Cleveland Tower at the Graduate College. Learn More Facts & Figures 7,000 Benefits-eligible employees 1,289 Faculty, including full time, part time and visiting 1,576 Research funding awards 58% of faculty and staff live in Mercer County Show Me More Facts and Figures Play video: Play Video: Kathleen Applegate: "We are in the service of humanity" President's Award for Distinguished Teaching Each year, select Princeton faculty members are honored at Commencement ceremonies with President's Awards for Distinguished Teaching. Learn more President's Achievement Award Several members of the staff are honored each spring with the President's Achievement Award for their dedication, outstanding contributions and exemplary service to the University. Learn More Community Service Faculty, staff and students focus their energy on the local community — and beyond — throughout the year. Along with providing services such as tutoring and mentoring of local children, our employees and students organize annual initiatives that serve local residents with donations of clothing, furniture, food and services. Learn More Meet Princeton In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice