Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Educational Psychology & Research Faculty and Staff Research Clinical Services Grants & Contracts Alumni & Friends Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact EDPR Menu About EDPR Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate EDPR minorM.S.Online M.S.Ph.D.Graduate Certificate in Qualitative ResearchGraduate Certificate in Quantitative Research Courses Faculty News Student Resources Admissions ApplyInternational StudentsGraduate AssistantshipsGraduate Catalog View our brochure! Like us on Facebook! Frequently Asked Questions Take Action Apply Now! Student Organizations in CEPR Department News Contact Us Home Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research EDPR Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions For Applicants Do I need to submit my GRE scores when I apply to the M.S. program? No. You are encouraged to provide your GRE scores if you have them or feel strongly that they will support your admission. However, applicants to the M.S. program are not required to submit GRE scores. How many credit hours do I need to graduate from this M.S. program in EDPR? It takes a minimum of 30 credit hours to complete a master’s degree either on campus or online. For more information, go to our Master’s Degree webpage. Can I apply to the Ph.D. program without my Master's? If so, will I get my master's on the way? Applicants holding a bachelor’s degree are eligible for entry into the EDPR doctoral program. They can obtain a master’s degree after they fulfill the master’s level requirements on the path to their doctorate. Do I need to select an EDPR professor to be my advisor when I apply to the Ph.D. program? Yes. You should name 2-3 current faculty members whom you would like to work with. Your top choice usually will be your advisor if you are accepted into the program. Students may inquire to work with other professors or switch to a new advisor whose research interest is congruent with their own. Do doctoral students get involved in research? Yes. Applicants who are not interested in conducting research are not acceptable to the EDPR program. Once students are enrolled in the program, research is their priority in the program. They will be asked to assist faculty in research, join collaborative research, and conduct independent research. What are the research opportunities that the EDPR program offers? How do I get involved in research labs or ongoing research projects? Before you apply to the program or while you are studying in the program, contact the professor you are interested in working with to get more information or send your inquiry to the faculty program coordinator. What kind of research are faculty currently working on? Do they have a lab, and are they accepting graduate students? EDPR faculty members do not have lab spaces but classrooms are commonly used for lab meetings in Ball Hall. It is important for students to examine the faculty members’ publications to learn whether they want to get involved in a particular type of research. Feel free to make an appointment with every faculty member to learn what kind of research opportunities are available. What are the requirements for each degree? The requirements and details for each degree program can be found under the “Degrees & Certificates” dropdown at the website of Educational Psychology and Research. How much is the graduate school tuition? The approximate tuition can be found on the University of Memphis cost of attendance estimator. For the online MS program in Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR), tuition is $647 per credit hour. A student needs to meet the minimum of 30 credit hours to complete the degree. Are classes offered virtually, or in person? Classes are offered online and in-person. Both in person and online students are able to register for either course format. Students in the online M.S. degree program can fully complete the program through online courses. How long will it take to complete the program? A full-time M.S. student may need 4 semesters and a part-time M.S. student may need 3 - 4 years. For a full-time Ph.D. student, it takes about 6-7 years, similar to the national average completion time. About Future Career What kind of job can I get with an MS in educational psychology and research? [see the PDF flyer on file and link it here] Does the Educational Psychology and Research Program prepare me to be a counselor or school psychologist? No. The primary focus of the EDPR program is to foster research within the education setting. Prospective applicants who desire to pursue a career in counseling or school psychology are encouraged to apply to the counseling program or the school psychology program at the University of Memphis that are designed with that goal in mind. I want to test children in school. Can the master's program prepare me for this career? No. To prepare for working as a school psychologist, please visit the School Psychology Program at the University of Memphis. What careers do most graduates with an M.S. in EDPR go into after graduation? Please see our flyer titled, “What can I do with an M.S. in Educational Psychology and Research." What careers do most graduates with a Ph.D. in EDPR go into after graduation? Because our students come to our program from a great variety of backgrounds, there is no way to characterize their careers in a single statement. Most full-time and international students who graduated from the program have become faculty members and researchers in higher education. Most part-time students received a promotion in their existing full-time position outside of higher education. For New and Continuing Students How can I find all the current program requirements? For the current EDPR M.S. program description and requirements, go visit Educational Psychology and Research, (MS) in the Academic Catalog. For the current EDPR Ph.D. program description and requirements, go to Educational Psychology and Research (PhD) in the Academic Catalog What electives are there for students to choose from? There are two types of elective courses for EDPR students to choose from: those within the EDPR major and those available in the graduate school catalog across campus. EDPR students are required to take core courses (See the Academic Catalog, 24 hours for Ph.D. and 12 for M.S.). Students can discuss with their advisor about what elective courses they may take with EDPR and across campus. Where can I find the class schedule for each semester? For the spring class offerings and schedule, check your MyMemphis account Student Pages My Resources for the registration tool links around the first week of November. For the summer and fall courses, check your MyMemphis account Student Pages My Resources for the registration tool links around the first week of April. Note: There are a limited number of catalog courses available each semester and some available courses have limited seats available. It is always a good idea to sign up for your courses earlier. Avoid taking all the required courses first. You would be better off by taking infrequently offered EDPR courses when they are offered. Speak with your advisor if you are uncertain. Is there a specific order in which students are expected to take the courses? In general, if you are from a field of inquiry noticeably different from Educational Psychology and Research, you should start with foundation courses like Life-Span Human Development, and Introduction to Research Design and Methodology. These courses are in the EDPR core courses (15 credits in all). However, other than the required core courses, you are free to take other EDPR elective courses in any order after consulting with your advisor. Take those EDPR courses that are not offered every semester as soon as they are made available. Some courses are offered only every 2 or 3 years. How do I know when some specific classes are offered? It is difficult to predict whether some courses, especially the upper-level courses, will be available in the next semester. It is advisable to take your major’s electives as early as you can in your program to avoid the problem of a course not being offered later on. We strongly encourage students to sign up early for courses when the availability date first starts. The student should ask their advisor or the instructor about individual course offerings. May I take classes offered online and in person during the same semester? Yes. You are welcome to take EDPR courses in either format especially in our M.S. program. However, our doctoral students are expected to take courses on campus although some EDPR courses are offered online for the 8000 level. Doctoral students should consult their advisors if they must take an online course in a special circumstance. Are classes available at night for those who work during the day? Yes. It is advisable to take your major’s electives as early as you can in your program to avoid the problem of a course not being offered later on. We strongly encourage students to sign up early for courses when the availability date first starts. The student should ask their advisor or the instructor about individual course offerings. How many credit hours do I need to complete the doctorate program in EDPR? student with a master’s degree needs to complete 54 hours to meet the doctorate program requirement. A doctoral student with only a bachelor’s degree will complete 72 credit hours. For more information on the EDPR program requirements, go to our Ph.D. Degree webpage. What should I know about the residency project? The Residency Project is a milestone in your doctoral program which demonstrate your ability to conduct an independent research project. You need to complete it no later than the end of your coursework. Only upon its completion may you take the comprehensive examinations. What is the student composition in the EDPR program? EDPR has the highest percentage of international students in the College of Education, especially among doctoral students. One half of the master’s students are African Americans. There are more women than men in both M.S. and Ph.D. program. Many students already developed a career before entering the program. Are there examples of student research publications? The EDPR program provides a reference list of past and current students’ publications upon request. About Financial Aid Is a Graduate Assistantship guaranteed to a full-time PhD student? The department is more than likely to offer a graduate assistantship to a full-time doctoral student. But it is not automatic and guaranteed. It is assessed annually and contingent on the student’s academic performance. Students may apply for an assistantship when applying for admission. What kind of graduate assistantship positions are available? The department offers graduate assistantships in the beginning of the academic year primarily to full-time doctoral students. A graduate assistantship usually consists of a tuition waiver up to 4 courses and a monthly stipend for 9 months. An assistant may be assigned to a variety of academically or administratively related tasks. Assistantships are also offered at other locations on campus for which EDPR students are welcome to apply. What's the difference between a GA and a TA or RA? At the University of Memphis, the financial aid for a graduate student is uniformly called Graduate Assistantship, also known as GA. It varies greatly by amount, location, and work assignment. One common type of work assignments is to assist a professor in teaching. Another common type is to assist a professor in conducting research. So, TA (teaching assistant) and RA (research assistant) are work assignments covered under GA (graduate assistantship). Can I get financial aid if I am accepted into the MS program? Our department in general does not offer any financial aid to master’s students. However, there are assistantship openings at times across campus. Students are encouraged to seek financial aid opportunities across campus. Does the program offer the yellow ribbon financial aid to veterans? Yes. In February 2021, the University of Memphis was ranked a top military friendly schools for seven consecutive years. Once you have registered for classes as a degree-seeking graduate student, fill out and submit Veterans’ Yellow Ribbon Request form. For more information, consult University’s Program and Benefits webpage. Connect With Us View EDPR Program Brochure > Follow EDPR Facebook > and Twitter > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/11/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.