Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu About About the UW Diversity Global Impact Innovation Leadership Maps Population Health Sustainability Visit Academics Academics at the UW Academic calendar Academic departments Colleges and schools Course descriptions Registration Student guide Time schedule Apply Admissions Financial Aid Continuing education Majors Student housing Transfer students Tuition and fees Undocumented students UW Online News & Events UW News Featured stories Arts UW Calendar UW Magazine Husky sports Newsletter Research Research at the UW Office of Research Research Lifecycle Resources Collaboration Stats and rankings Campuses Bothell Seattle Tacoma Give Give now Ways to give My UW Giving Admissions Admissions Undocumented student resources Important laws and policies for undocumented students Important laws and policies for undocumented students There are various laws and policies that directly impact undocumented students at national and state levels. We encourage you to review the information on this page and visit the websites below for up-to-date information. Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) DACA is a program under the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) that temporarily suspends deportation of some unauthorized individuals. On Sept. 5, 2017, the Trump administration announced an end to DACA by terminating the program created under President Obama. This means that for individuals who already have DACA, your DACA and work permit will continue to be valid until their expiration date. If you have a DACA application (initial or renewal) that was accepted for processing by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) through Sept. 5, 2017, the agency will continue with the process of adjudicating your application. If you have a permit that will expire between now and March 5, 2018, you may apply for a two-year renewal of your DACA, but your request must be accepted by USCIS by Oct. 5, 2017. Please see the latest guidance from USCIS. The UW Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity has created a FAQ to provide information for the university community on the rescission of the program. In-state tuition and financial aid Access to financial aid as well as qualification for in-state tuition rates for undocumented varies greatly across the United States. In Washington state, undocumented students, if they meet certain criteria, can qualify for both in-state tuition rates (HB-1079) and state-funded financial aid (WASFA). In-state tuition: Learn more about HB 1079 and the eligibility requirements. Financial aid for undocumented students: Learn more about WASFA and the eligibility requirements. If you are interested in learning about other state’s tuition laws for undocumented students, you can visit United We Dream’s page on Tuition Equity for Undocumented Students. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA