Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Creative Operations Welcome to Creative Operations Creative Operations is about defining, building and sustaining the Clemson message. That means we work across all media, like digital, broadcast, print, social, event, etc. But we’re also in all the hangouts and villages, the communities and networks — wherever we need to be to get the right message, to the right audience, at the right time. Brand Guide Our work crosses all areas of Clemson with one goal — to communicate, support and build the University’s brand. We have an incredible brand at Clemson. It took hard work to become such an awesome brand, and we protect it with our creative lives. The Creative Operations team is made up of designers, writers, digital and technology experts, photographers and videographers — together we can tell a powerful story. Bottom line, we are talented, insightful, creative people who understand what Clemson is and how to tell others about it. Our Services If you question the effectiveness of your current communication efforts, call the professionals in Creative Operations. Our staff includes editors, designers, photographers and production personnel available to help you with integrated promotional and marketing solutions. Projects that we can assist you with free of charge include: Plan integrated campaigns using a variety of print and electronic media Provide consultation, including cost and time estimates Write or edit copy Design materials and prepare them for printing Write specifications and coordinate bidding with the Procurement Division Coordinate photography needs Coordinate the entire print production process, including mailing Develop Web pages and maintain the standards of the University's Web site Produce display graphics and administer the loan of the University's exhibit system Maintain the University's color stock image file Advise on the proper usage of the University's master brand architecture Homepage Contact Us Related Links University Relations Marketing Services Media Relations Photo Services Web Services Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram