Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES PSYCHOLOGY APPLIED CHILD AND ADOLESCENT PSYCHOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 PSYCAP 510 Conceptual Foundations of Developmental Psychopathology: Risk and Protective Factors (3) L. Katz Introduces developmental psychopathology focusing on risk factors and vulnerabilities. Uses a developmental psychopathology perspective and bioecological model to consider the child within the context of its environment. At the individual level, examines temperament/personality, emotion, and stress response. At the contextual level, examines various risk and protective factors. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCAP 510 PSYCAP 512 Social and Emotional Development (3) L. Katz Provides a comprehensive understanding of key aspects of social and emotional development during childhood and adolescence. Topics include temperament, attachment, emotional processes, the self, gender, identity and prosocial behavior. Reviews the influence of social contexts such as family and peers. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCAP 512 PSYCAP 514 Child and Adolescent Psychopathology: Assessment and Diagnosis (3) L. Katz Introduces various forms of child and adolescent psychopathology and addresses methods of assessment and diagnosis of psychopathology in children and adolescents. Focuses on major DSM-V diagnostic categories, including disorders of behavior and emotion, disorders of cognition, developmental disorders, and problems related to physical and mental health. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCAP 514 PSYCAP 516 Approaches to Child and Adolescent Treatment (3) L. KATZ Introduces various forms of treatment for child and adolescent psychopathology. Provides students comprehensive information and practical tools related to empirically supported treatment practices for children and adolescents experiencing a range of emotional and/or behavioral problems. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCAP 516 PSYCAP 518 Ethics and Law in Clinical Settings: Children, Adolescents and Families (1-3) G. Sedlar Ethical and legal dilemmas for mental health professionals in their everyday work with children, adolescents, and their families. Ethical issues considered with respect to clinical caseloads. Case consultation provided. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCAP 518 PSYCAP 520 Critical Thinking about Research and Ethics (3) L. Katz Focuses on key concepts in experimental design and ethical conduct of research with children and ethics. Students learn how to evaluate research and how to design experimental and quasi-experimental studies. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCAP 520 PSYCAP 522 Evidence Based Practices in Counseling Settings: Interacting with Youth Involved Systems for Complex Cases (3) Lynn Fainsilber Katz In-depth review of evidence-based practices (EBP) appropriate for some of the most complex cases - older children and adolescents who are involved with multiple service systems (e.g., mental health, juvenile justice, child welfare). Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCAP 522 PSYCAP 524 Evidence Based Practices: CBT for Anxiety and Mood Disorders (3) Lynn Fainsilber Katz In-depth, hands-on introduction to evidence based, cognitive behavioral treatments for children and adolescents with anxiety-related disorders. Specific training provided in Trauma-Focused Cognitive Behavior Therapy. Includes didactics, skills demonstration and practice, and assessment. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCAP 524 PSYCAP 526 Evidence Based Practice: Parenting Interventions (3) Lynn Fainsilber Katz Provides a solid foundation for implementing a specific evidence-based parent training approach, "Helping the Noncompliant Child." Includes didactics (readings, lecture and in-class discussion), skills demonstration and practice (modeling, role-playing, and out-of-class rehearsal), and assessment (skills check-out, presentation, written assignments). Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCAP 526 PSYCAP 528 Multicultural Issues in Counseling Settings: Children, Adolescents and Families (1/3) Covers key principles, theories and applications of multiculturalism and examines several aspects of various cultural experiences as they impact the client, the therapist/counselor, and the therapist/counselor-client relationship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCAP 528 PSYCAP 530 Evidence-Based Practices in Counseling Settings: Trauma-Focused CBT (3) Lynn Fainsilber Katz In-depth, hands-on introduction to evidence-based treatment for children and adolescents who have experienced trauma. Evidence-based approaches for treating trauma. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCAP 530 PSYCAP 532 Principles of Assessment and Behavior Change (3) Key conceptual principles of behavior change. Covers the "nuts and bolts" that underlie most evidence-based therapeutic interventions for children and adolescents, such as positive and negative reinforcement, response cost, and exposure. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCAP 532 PSYCAP 534 Counseling Skills with Individuals and Families (3) G. Sedlar Basic counseling skills. Conducting an intake and learning the verbal and nonverbal skills that develop rapport and contribute to the formation of a therapeutic alliance, including sensitivity to individual differences, attending skills, reflective listening skills, and basic motivational interviewing skills. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCAP 534 PSYCAP 536 Evidence-Based Practices in Counseling Settings: Cultural Humility and Treatments for Trauma Disorders (3) Assessing and treating trauma in a group-based setting. Training on Cognitive Behavioral Interventions for Trauma in Schools (CBITS). Enhancing Cultural Humility of providers delivering Evidence-Based Programs (EBP). Students adapt treatment to match client presentation, ethnicity, culture, socioeconomic status, and treatment setting. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCAP 536 PSYCAP 538 Dialectical Behavior Therapy for Youth and Adolescents (3) Lynn Fainsilber Katz Key principles, theories, and applications of Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT). DBT assists clients in establishing emotion regulation, interpersonal effectiveness, distress tolerance, and mindfulness skills. Explores DBT's theoretical basis, and provides an overview of DBT skills and how to integrate them into practice. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCAP 538 PSYCAP 560 Practicum Course in Applied Child and Adolescent Psychology: Prevention and Treatment (1-7, max. 28) Lynn Fainsilber Katz Students integrate didactic and theoretical training with applied clinical experience in a real-world clinical setting. Provides students opportunities to discuss ethical, practical, and professional topics related to their practicum placements and clinical work in general. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PSYCAP 560 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022