Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Why Columbia Admissions Why Columbia The world looks to Columbia Law School as a leader in legal education and scholarship. As a graduate, you’ll be ready when the world looks to you. Find limitless options for a lifetime of personal, professional, and intellectual growth. Renowned Faculty The Law School’s distinguished faculty—internationally recognized experts in their fields—challenge students to engage with complex social, political, and legal issues and devise solutions that have real-world impact. Learn More Innovative Curriculum The Law School’s vast curriculum draws on our innovative spirit and belief in rigorous intellectual exchange. Pathbreaking faculty, new courses in emerging subject areas, and opportunities for interdisciplinary study—including dual and joint degrees with Columbia University and partner institutions—will change the way you see the law and the world. Learn More Strong Community Our community is bound together by a fierce sense of camaraderie and fortified by countless activities on and off campus. You will be surrounded and supported by talented individuals from an array of backgrounds who will deepen your engagement with the law and civic life. Learn More Career Opportunities Long-standing relationships with top employers around the world—from law firms and Fortune 500 companies to social justice organizations, NGOs, and educational institutions—lay the groundwork for you to chart your own unique career path. To prepare, take advantage of an array of career resources, including counseling, peer mentoring, and mock interview programs. Learn More Experiential Learning Experiential learning, including through required pro bono service, is central to a Columbia Law School education. Clinics, externships, moot courts, and other opportunities give you hands-on experience working with real clients on real cases with real-world impact. Learn More Alumni Network Columbia Law School’s sweeping alumni network includes more than 27,000 individuals in 119 countries. Law School graduates are leaders in their fields—they include U.S. Supreme Court justices, CEOs, entrepreneurs, executives, and law firm heads—and serve as a valuable resource for students at every stage of their professional journey. Learn More Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Applications and Enrollment (J.D. 2021 Entering Class as of September 27, 2021) Applications 9645 Applications Received / 11.3% Accepted Enrollment Breakdown 479 Enrolled / 45% Students of Color 18% LGBTQ+ 13% International Students 174 Median LSAT Score 25th percentile = 172; 75th Percentile = 176 3.84 Median Undergraduate GPA 25th percentile = 3.75; 75th percentile = 3.92 Student Voices All News & Stories Susannah ‘Suz’ Kroeber ’21: Changing the World One Word at a Time Brenda Efurhievwe ’21 LL.M.: Becoming an Instrument for Change Sneha Pandya ’21: Thinking Differently About the Law Jillian Williams ’21: Providing a Voice to People and Communities Matthew Robinson ’21: Setting a Standard of Excellence Amr Jomaa ’21 LL.M.: Giving Back to the World Tanner Zumwalt ’21: Preparing for Every Outcome LL.M. Students Share Their Experiences Now and Then: 3Ls Reflect on Their Law School Journey and What’s Next The Columbia Law Experience: 2Ls Talk Community, Confidence, and Career Prep The Columbia Law Experience: One Semester In Beginning Columbia Law: 1Ls Tell Their Stories Next Up Brenda Efurhievwe ’21 LL.M.: Becoming an Instrument for Change Next Up Sneha Pandya ’21: Thinking Differently About the Law Next Up Jillian Williams ’21: Providing a Voice to People and Communities Next Up Matthew Robinson ’21: Setting a Standard of Excellence Next Up Amr Jomaa ’21 LL.M.: Giving Back to the World Next Up Tanner Zumwalt ’21: Preparing for Every Outcome Next Up LL.M. Students Share Their Experiences Next Up Now and Then: 3Ls Reflect on Their Law School Journey and What’s Next Next Up The Columbia Law Experience: 2Ls Talk Community, Confidence, and Career Prep Next Up The Columbia Law Experience: One Semester In Next Up Beginning Columbia Law: 1Ls Tell Their Stories Next Up Susannah ‘Suz’ Kroeber ’21: Changing the World One Word at a Time All News & Stories Experiential Learning All Experiential Learning Clinic Smith Family Human Rights Clinic Areas of Study Law of the Workplace Social Justice and Human Rights Externship Civil Litigation Externships Areas of Study Social Justice and Human Rights Litigation and Dispute Resolution Family, Gender, and Sexuality Law of the Workplace Moot Court Moot Court Moot Court Applications are open starting January 2020. Areas of Study Leadership Litigation and Dispute Resolution Externship Externship on the Federal Government: Semester in Washington, D.C. Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Clinic Immigrants’ Rights Clinic Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Externship Pro Bono Scholars Program Areas of Study Social Justice and Human Rights All Experiential Learning at Columbia Law More Resources Visit Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Your Campus, Your City Student Organizations J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum “I chose Columbia Law because it presented an opportunity for a top legal education in an amazing city. In addition to having a rich curriculum that covers a wide array of legal topics, Columbia has knowledgeable faculty members who are approachable and willing to chat about their research with interested students.” Alexis Danielle Campbell ’20 LL.M. Class of 2020 300 students 53 jurisdictions represented 40 native languages 23 Fulbright and other competitive external scholarship awardees Tour the Law School All News & Stories Tour the Law School All News & Stories Graduation J.D., LL.M., J.S.D., and Executive LL.M. students celebrate graduation, with Antony J. Blinken ’88, U.S. Secretary of State, delivering the keynote address during the online graduation ceremony on April 29, 2021. Graduation 2021: Highlights of a Special Day Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Students Video A Lawyer’s Responsibility: Class of 2022 Graduates Reflect on Law School and What’s Next Six students look back on their time in law school and share how they think the Class of 2022 will have an impact on the legal profession and the world at large. Students Video Annah Akhoun-Murat ’22 LL.M.: Build a Sustainable Future Students Video Emily L. Drake ’22: Be Prepared and Know When to Ask for Help Students Video Jordan A.J. Jarrett ’22 LL.M.: Use the Law to Make Meaningful Impact Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.