Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Canvas Menu Getting Started Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status Training Request Forms Canvas Training Request Form Demo Course Request Form Feature Request Form Organization Request Form Outside User Request Form Promotional Request Form Image Examples SI Leader Course Request Form Template Request Form Syllabi Resources News Canvas Login Baylor>Canvas>Support>Canvas>Suggesting Improvements Suggesting Improvements Participating in the Canvas Community system is the most effective way to influence how Instructure prioritizes and develops changes to its product. Before you explore the community forums, we recommend becoming familiar with the way in which Instructure vets feature requests: How Instructure's voting process works for feature requests How Instructure's feature development process works How to create a new feature idea Follow the steps below to "upvote" an existing feature request or to submit a new one. Step 1: Login to the community system. You must be logged in to this system to submit a new feature request or "upvote" existing requests. Login to Canvas and click the "Help" link. Select the "Submit a Feature Idea" link in the popup window--this will send you to the "Canvas Feature Ideas" page at https://community.canvaslms.com/community/ideas/feature-ideas. Find the "Log in" link and log in to the community system. If you have previously logged in to Canvas as instructed above, then you will automatically be logged in to the community system when you click the "Log in" link. NOTE: You may be asked to confirm your profile details before fully authenticating into the system. Step 2: Find/upvote existing feature requests. When using the Canvas Feature Ideas system, we recommend that you begin your search by viewing those requests in the "Open for Voting" category. Ideas in this stage of development still need votes to be further considered by Instructure's developers. Once an idea reaches the "Gathering Info" stage, it isn't as critical to upvote the feature, but users may continue to upvote/comment on any feature in the "Gathering Info" stage. After you login to the Canvas Feature Ideas page as described in Step 1, click the "Open for Voting" category: Click in the field labeled "Type to filter by text," search for your feature, and click the feature request page you'd like to visit: On the individual feature request page, click the arrow to upvote the feature request: Step 3 (Optional): Create a new feature request. If you have searched Instructure's feature request forum and have not found an existing document for your request, submit a new request. Follow these instructions to submit your feature request. Keep in mind that there are plenty of tools in Instructure's community portal that allow you to track the progress of feature requests. If you need additional assistance, please contact Instructure directly at (844)334-0228. Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Publisher Integrations Rich Content Editor Tools Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Getting Started Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status Training Request Forms Canvas Training Request Form Demo Course Request Form Feature Request Form Organization Request Form Outside User Request Form Promotional Request Form Image Examples SI Leader Course Request Form Template Request Form Syllabi Resources News Canvas Login