Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Classics Home About People Academics Undergraduate Program Study Abroad Research & Travel Funding Academic Prizes Departmental Undergraduate Group Brown Classical Journal Graduate Program Courses Diversity & Inclusion News Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Recent Graduates Site Navigation Home About Office Hours Contact Information Faculty Bookshelf The Couch Library Stay Connected [email protected] Intranet People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Visiting Scholars & Fellows Graduate Students Staff Emeriti Faculty Office Hours Academics Undergraduate Program Study Abroad Research & Travel Funding Academic Prizes Departmental Undergraduate Group Brown Classical Journal History Submission Guidelines Graduate Program PhD Programs Classics Sanskrit Track Ancient History Reading List MA in Classics Graduate Student Symposia Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement Courses Classics Greek Latin Modern Greek Sanskrit Diversity & Inclusion Diversity Statements News The Occasional Classicist Stay Connected Events Annual Lectures & Events Latin Carol Celebration Past Classics Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Past Volumes Recent Graduates Class of 2020 Class of 2021 Undergraduate Program Classics focuses on the languages, literature, history, and culture of Greco-Roman antiquity. It provides specialized training for students intending to enter graduate school, and a broad liberal education for those with more general interests. Students may choose to study beginning to advanced levels in Ancient Greek, Latin, Sanskrit, or Modern Greek and gain knowledge in literature, mythology, ancient history, philosophy, and religion. Additionally, each semester our department offers a number of courses that require no knowledge of the ancient languages. Concentrators are strongly encouraged to integrate their studies in various fields of Classics by writing a senior thesis, participating in seminars, or undertaking a senior capstone project. Concentration in Classics Programs of concentration may be arranged with emphasis on the ancient languages and literature or on ancient history and culture. Students may either pursue the standard Classics concentration - the most popular choice - or they may pursue one of the several optional tracks: Greek, Latin, Greek and Latin, South Asian Classics, Sanskrit, Greek and Sanskrit, or Latin and Sanskrit. Beginning with declarations submitted after September 1, 2018, all tracks except "Greek and Latin," "Greek and Sanskrit," and "Latin and Sanskrit" require the satisfactory completion of nine courses as described below. The introductory courses in Greek and Latin may not usually be counted toward a concentration, but those in Sanskrit may be counted toward the concentration requirement in some of the tracks. Students should always consult with the Director of Undergraduate Studies regarding their path toward fulfilling requirements and choosing electives. Concentration Tracks Classics One course in Greek or Latin on the 1000-level or above. CLAS 1210 & 1220 or CLAS 1310 & 1320 (Greek History or Roman History). One course with a "Classics and beyond" designation, OR a DIAP course offered by the Department of Classics or in a related area (e.g. Archaeology, History of Art and Architecture, Religious Studies) and approved by the concentration advisor. Five other courses, at least three of which must be offered by the Classics department. Any elective in a related area (e.g. Archaeology, History of Art and Architecture, Religious Studies) must be approved by the concentration advisor. Greek Four Greek courses on the 1000-level or above, at least one of which is to be GREK 1810 or 1820. CLAS 1210 & 1220 (Greek History). One course with a "Classics and beyond" designation, OR a DIAP course offered by the Department of Classics or in a related area (e.g. Archaeology, History of Art and Architecture, Religious Studies) and approved by the concentration advisor. Two additional courses, at least one of which must be offered by the Classics department. Any elective in a related area (e.g. Archaeology, History of art and Architecture, Religious Studies) must be approved by the concentration advisor. Latin Four Latin courses on the 1000-level or above, at least one of which is to be LATN 1810 or 1820. CLAS 1310 & 1320 (Roman History). One course with a "Classics and beyond" designation, OR a DIAP course offered by the Department of Classics or in a related area (e.g. Archaeology, History of Art and Architecture, Religious Studies) and approved by the concentration advisor. Two additional courses, at least one of which must be offered by the Classics department. Any elective in a related area (e.g. Archaeology, History of art and Architecture, Religious Studies) must be approved by the concentration advisor. Greek and Latin * Four Latin courses on the 1000-level or above, at least one of which is to be LATN 1810 or 1820. Four Greek courses on the 1000-level or above, at least one of which is to be GREK 1810 or 1820. CLAS 1210 & 1220 and CLAS 1310 & 1320 (Greek History and Roman History). South Asian Classics At least one Sanskrit course above SANS 0300. Three Sanskrit classics courses in translation. One course with a "Classics and beyond" designation, OR a DIAP course offered by the Department of Classics or in a related area (e.g. Archaeology, History of Art and Architecture, Religious Studies) and approved by the concentration advisor. Four other courses in classics or related areas (such as Comparative Literature, Religious Studies, South Asian Studies, Early Cultures, etc.) to be approved by the concentration advisor. Sanskrit Two Sanskrit courses at the 1000-level or above. Two Sanskrit classics courses in translation. One course with a "Classics and beyond" designation, OR a DIAP course offered by the Department of Classics or in a related area (e.g. Archaeology, History of Art and Architecture, Religious Studies) and approved by the concentration advisor. Four other courses in classics or related areas (such as Comparative Literature, Religious Studies, South Asian Studies, Early Cultures, etc.) to be approved by the concentration advisor. Greek and Sanskrit * Four Sanskrit courses at any level. Four Greek courses on the 1000-level or above, at least one of which is to be GREK 1810 or 1820. CLAS 1210 & 1220 (Greek History). Two additional courses in classics or related areas (such as Comparative Literature, Religious Studies, South Asian Studies, Early Cultures, etc.) to be approved by the concentration advisor. Latin and Sanskrit * Four Sanskrit courses at any level. Four Latin courses on the 1000-level or above, at least one of which is to be LATN 1810 or 1820. CLAS 1310 & 1320 (Roman History). Two additional courses in classics or related areas (such as Comparative Literature, Religious Studies, South Asian Studies, Early Cultures, etc.) to be approved by the concentration advisor. *Track requires the completion of twelve courses. You can find additional information about concentration requirements on the Brown University Bulletin. Programs are flexible and students are encouraged to discuss their plans with the Concentration Adviser. Note: Once a student has earned credit for a 1000-level language class, he or she may not apply any subsequent class taken at a lower level (e.g. 0300 or 0400) in the same language toward concentration requirements. Incoming students with International Baccalaureate exam scores in Classics or Classics-related subjects should consult with the Concentration Adviser in Classics about course placement and credit. For a score of 4 or 5 on the Advanced Placement exam in Latin the Department of Classics awards one (1) unassigned credit in Latin for completion of one 1,000-level course in Latin with at least the grade of 'B'. Concentrators are strongly encouraged to integrate their studies in various fields of Classics by: Writing a senior thesis, which can, but need not, be an honors thesis; is more demanding than an ordinary term paper; and preferably transcends the subject matter of one particular subdiscipline of classics Participating in a seminar for juniors and seniors, which is designed to provide insight into the relationships among various parts of ancient studies Or undertaking another kind of senior project that achieves the same goals and is acceptable to the department. Honors Students may earn honors in the concentration by presenting a satisfactory thesis, for the preparation of which they will ordinarily enroll in the relevant 1990 courses; these courses may not be used to satisfy the standard requirements for a concentration. In order to qualify, the candidate for honors in the Department of Classics ordinarily will be entering his/her seventh semester of study and must have an “A” average (3.50 or higher on a 4.00 scale) in the concentration. Senior Thesis Guidelines Language Placement & Proficiency The Classics Department does not offer language placement exams for undergraduate students looking to take language courses. We encourage interested undergraduate students to discuss their proficiency with a Classics faculty member. If you have more questions regarding language placement and proficiency, please contact the Director of Undergraduate Studies. Related Studies Students are encouraged to take related courses offered in the following programs: Archeology Art History Comparative Literature Early Cultures Egyptology & Assyriology History Medieval Studies Philosophy Political Science Religious Studies Academics Undergraduate Program Study Abroad Research & Travel Funding Academic Prizes Departmental Undergraduate Group Brown Classical Journal Graduate Program Courses Department of Classics Department of Classics Brown University Box 1856 48 College Street Providence, RI 02912-1856 Phone: 401-863-1267 Fax: 401-863-7484 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top