Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Women and Health Initiative Women and Health Initiative Menu Search for: W&HI Home Who We Are Dr. Ana Langer Faculty Steering Committee Staff Visiting Scientists Education GHP 231: Sexual and Reproductive Health GHP 547: Field Experience in Maternal Health WGH 211: Gender and Health: Introductory Perspectives Summer Travel Awards in Maternal Health Student Fieldwork in Maternal Health LEAD Fellowship Fellowship Experience Application Requirements and Information Current and Past Fellows Projects Ending Preventable Maternal Mortality Improving Maternal Health Measurement Capacity and Use (IMHM) Gender Based Violence in Jordan Understanding and Meeting the Sexual and Reproductive Health Needs of Jordanian and Syrian Youth Women and the Global Health Workforce INTERPRACTICE-21st Century The Boston Project (Addressing Racial/Ethnic Inequities in Maternal Health) Completed Projects Publications Peer-reviewed Publications White Papers Books Interviews Blogs and Event Summaries Events Opportunities Contact Us The Women and Health Initiative (W&HI) at the Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health recognizes that, due to persistent social and gender inequality around the world, girls and women experience increased risk of ill-health and injustice within the health sector, where they play dual roles as both consumers and providers of health care. The W&HI holistically conceptualizes women as both the beneficiaries of health care interventions and as critical caregivers within the health system. The Initiative is unprecedented in its balanced focus on improving women’s health and catalyzing women’s contributions to the health and wealth of societies. A central tenet of the W&HI is that female-driven solutions rooted in gender equality and women’s empowerment will strengthen health systems to better address women’s needs. The W&HI aims to support women’s efforts to fulfill their potential as providers, decision-makers and leaders in health systems and, consequently, committing and preparing them to advance the women’s health agenda. The Women and Health Initiative was founded at Harvard Chan in 2010 by Dean Julio Frenk. As one of the Dean’s flagship initiatives, the W&HI draws on resources and expertise from across the Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health and the broader Harvard community to develop interdisciplinary perspectives and innovative solutions to the challenges women face in the public health arena. The Initiative also brings together global partners including governments, foundations, private industry, multi-lateral agencies, non-governmental organizations and committed individuals. — Photo credits: Courtesy of Jonathan Torgovnik/Getty Images Reportage Courtesy of Paula Bronstein and Nina Robinson/Getty Images Reportage A call for ceasefire & a peaceful end to the Russian aggression against Ukraine Dr. Ana Langer & the Lancet–SIGHT Commission issue a comment condemning Russian violations of humanitarian law in Ukraine. Fostering ‘untapped potential’ of women leaders across globe Learn more about the Jane Jie Sun Harvard LEAD Fellowship and the 2021 cohort. GHP 547: Field Experience in Maternal Health Students reflect on their experiences with W&HI partner organizations over the 2022 J-term. To learn more, visit the GHP 547 blog. The Negative Health Implications of Restricting Abortion Access Dr. Ana Langer discusses the current national and global climates around abortion rights, and the impact of restrictive laws on women's health. Diverse Voices: Covid-19, Intersectionality & the Health of Women, NIH ORWH On Jan 27, Prof. Ana Langer and Dr. Jewel Gausman discussed their recent publication on Sex and Gender Disparities in the COVID-19 Pandemic. Women in the Global Health Workforce Couldn't join us on October 9th? Read about the "Women in the Global Health Workforce" event in The Harvard Gazette. News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College