Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Play video: Play Video: Princeton Profiles: Penna Rose, leaving beautiful sounds in the stones Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Princeton Profiles: Penna Rose, leaving beautiful sounds in the stones Danielle Alio, Office of Communications Maggie Westergaard, Office of Communications July 31, 2017, noon For 25 years, Penna Rose has been leading Chapel Music and the Chapel Choir while providing a nurturing environment for students. Video by Danielle Alio, Office of Communications Close to 90 years of music reverberates through the stones of the Princeton University Chapel. Penna Rose, director of Chapel Music under the Office of Religious Life, says the voices of past students live within the walls of the chapel, completed in 1928. For 25 years, Rose has ensured the legacy continues. Rose leads the 80-member Chapel Choir, which comprises undergraduate and graduate students along with a few faculty, staff and community members. “The students come from everywhere. They come from every discipline,” Rose said. “They come because they love singing. They love the space. This [chapel] is their home.” The Chapel Choir performs at Opening Exercises, the Baccalaureate ceremony and the Service of Remembrance. The choir also sings at Sunday morning services throughout the year and at concerts in December and in the spring. In addition, the choir sponsors a variety of events in the chapel, such as an annual presentation of a silent movie with organ accompaniment. Every other year, the Chapel Choir participates in an international tour during which it performs with other choirs. This past academic year, the choir performed in Portugal. “One of the most interesting things about Chapel Choir tours is that Penna makes them a cultural exchange,” said Eliza Davis, a former Chapel Choir president and graduate of the Class of 2017 who majored in the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. “It’s a really amazing experience because we always get to spend time with these other choirs and make connections through music.” Rose was inducted as an honorary member of the Class of 2017 during the senior Step Sing in June. During the induction, Rose was cited as “filling our undergraduate lives with heavenly sounds and angelic music.” She was also noted as being a “mentor and great friend to many.” “I think that Penna really does emphasize making the music mean something to you,” said Eric Fung, a chemistry major and member of the Class of 2018. “She is definitely a mentor figure. Not just to me but to everyone else in the choir.” Rose is dedicated to sharing her passion for music with the students, and also feels that she gets something in return. “Every year I learn something. That’s why this job is important for me to keep doing because I am renewed every year,” Rose said. “It’s the best job in the world. The students are absolutely remarkable. They are smart. They’re funny. They’re fabulous.” Related Stories Dudamel! Anatomy of a cross-campus residency Read more Festival of the Arts brings together community, campus to fête new Lewis Arts complex Read more Princeton employees honored for dedication and service Read more Film director Luhrmann encourages seniors to write the script of their lives at Class Day Read more Petraeus challenges seniors to pursue life of public service Read more Princeton community remembers John Nash Jr. and Alicia Nash Read more Sen. Cory Booker stresses the power of small acts during Princeton’s Class Day Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice