Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences, BS Build a Solid Foundation for a Rewarding Medical or Health-Related Career Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Health Professions and Sciences Department(s) Health Sciences 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Prepare for a Career That Incorporates Biological and Behavioral Sciences As the second largest major at UCF, many students start their path to a health career by majoring in Health Sciences. Often referred to as “pre-med,” our science-based, application-oriented curriculum is designed for students with an interest in human health who plan to pursue careers in medicine, other health professions, clinical/behavioral health research, health promotion and public health. With two distinct tracks, you can fine tune your selection of courses to meet your goals. Pre-clinical Track This track is a good option for pre-med students who are pursuing careers as a physician, physician assistant, dentist, pharmacist and other healthcare careers. You’ll gain a solid understanding about treating and managing diseases through coursework including pathophysiology I & II, introduction to pharmacology, and clinical nutrition. Health Promotion Track Designed for students pursuing careers as a physical therapist, occupational therapist, clinical/behavioral health researcher, public health specialist and other health-related fields. Explore health promotion principles and concepts through courses such as preventative health care, epidemiology of chronic diseases and medical self assessment. As a health sciences student, you will have opportunities outside of the classroom that will expand your knowledge and skills and help you achieve your career goal. Experiences like engaging with faculty in research, internships, community service projects, study abroad and professional development, allow you to explore a wide range of career opportunities and build your professional resume in preparation for applying to professional/graduate schools or entry-level employment. Our expert faculty are invested in your success and provide you with the foundation of knowledge, skills and experiences you need to advance your studies and provide a foundation for your next steps in pursuing a health or medically-related career. Related Programs: Health Science minor Kinesiology, BS Highlights Ranked 9th among the 35 Best Bachelor’s Degrees in Health Sciences 2020 by Best College Reviews. College Choice ranked UCF’s program No. 17 of the 35 best Bachelor’s in Health Sciences degrees. Occupations in health sciences are projected to grow roughly 15% through 2029. The median earnings for entry-level employment for health sciences graduates is $43,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Pathophysiology I & Pathophysiology II Get a solid understanding of the etiology, pathogenesis and clinical manifestations of diseases. Introduction to Pharmacology Learn the methods of administration, mechanisms of action, dosage calculations, safety issues and therapeutic actions of medications in the treatment of human disease. Clinical Nutrition Explore medical nutrition therapy principles and applications used to treat and manage chronic diseases and conditions. Preventive Health Care Examine current guidelines and recommendations to prevent disease and reduce chronic disease risk. Epidemiology of Chronic Diseases Apply epidemiological principles and concepts related to the distribution, determinants and control of chronic diseases. Medical Self Assessment Develop skills to understand one’s health and encourage active participation of individuals in their own healthcare. The Health Sciences program at UCF has contributed tremendously to my development by allowing me to explore my interests, providing opportunities and engaging me in learning experiences both inside and outside the classroom that best supported me on my path to becoming a healthcare professional.” — Breon Clark ’20, Health Sciences alumni and Order or Pegasus recipient Health Sciences Skills You’ll Learn Learn about the underlying causes, treatments and prevention of disease. Develop skills to help you investigate disease transmission. Gain experience in developing research questions and interpreting research to build knowledge and to foster critical thinking skills. Build a professional portfolio full of extracurricular experiences to aid in applying to graduate programs or seeking employment. Career Opportunities Physician Physician Assistant Physical Therapist/Occupational Therapist Dentist Pharmacist Optometrist Clinical or Behavioral Health Researcher Public Health Specialist College of Health Professions and Sciences News Check out more stories Health & Medicine Survivor Link National Training Program Launches at UCF The program will support nine social work students, developing their ability to respond to domestic violence. Colleges & Campus UCF Opens New Huntington’s Disease Multispecialty Clinic Located in Research Park, the new clinic offers multidisciplinary care from the College of Medicine, School of Social Work, and College of Health Professions and… Community UCF Class Spotlight: Introduction to American Sign Language In honor of National American Sign Language Day, April 15, here’s a look at a course — plus an instructional video — that teaches students… Health & Medicine UCF Students Team up to Provide Care at Apopka Farmworkers Clinic For the first time since the pandemic, the clinic has returned to in-person services at full capacity. UCF Grad Works to Prevent and Control COVID-19 Spread After studying health sciences at UCF, Frankie Catalfumo ’13 is using his expertise as an infection control epidemiologist to keep patients and hospital staff safe at the Baltimore hospital. Read more about his work in healthcare. Degree Search College of Health Professions and Sciences programs Bachelors Health Sciences (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida