Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Contemplative Studies Initiative Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Contemplative Studies Initiative & Concentration About Us Concentration Requirements Current Courses Our Research Programs Contemplative Program Development Network "Taste of Qigong" Please join the Catherine Kerr Vital Energy in Health and Healing Series for a workshop with Sifu Donald Wong on A Taste of Qigong. This workshop will be held on May 14th from 10 am - 1 pm, EDT at the Brown/RISD Hillel (80 Brown St., Providence), Winnick Chapel. Please RSVP to [email protected] at your earliest possible convenience. If you do attend, wear loose fitting clothing, bring a bottle of water and a towel. Fall 2022 Courses! We are excited to be able to offer an array of Contemplative Studies courses for Fall 2022. Click to learn more! Vocal and Sarangi Recital Please join the Brown Contemplative Studies Initiative, Department of Music, Department of Religious Studies and the Center for Contemporary South Asia for a Vocal and Sarangi Recital with Nitin Mitta, Matthew Rahaim and Suhail Yusuf Khan on April 22nd from 7 - 8:30 pm in Friedman Hall, Rm. 102. This concert is free and open to the public. Elana Balch is our Featured Student of the Month Congratulations to Elana! Click to read more about this exceptional student! Confronting Anti-Asian Racism Contemplative Studies honors the people and cultures of Asia from whom we take the inspiration for the unique perspectives of our field. From them, we take seriously the premise that contemplative experience must fully and critically inform our studies of human nature and the social and environmental contexts we inhabit. We value all the diverse peoples and cultures of the world and unequivocally condemn the wave of anti-Asian racism sweeping our country at the moment. (FOR A COMPLETE STATEMENT, PLEASE CLICK ON THE ABOVE TITLE) To Contribute to Brown Contemplative Studies, Please Click Here Announcements Contemplative Studies Spring Events For security reasons, the links for the Virtual Contemplative Mentors in... NEW TO THIS SITE: The Catherine Kerr Vital Energy Health and Healing Lectures and Workshops! Please visit this new addition to our website (listed on the menu to the left) which... view all announcements Faculty Profile Sara Lazar Sara W. Lazar, PhD is an Associate Professor in the Psychiatry Department at Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School. The focus of her research is to elucidate the neural mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of yoga and meditation, both in clinical settings and in healthy individuals. She has been practicing yoga and mindfulness meditation since 1994. Her research has been covered by numerous news outlets including The New York Times, USA Today, CNN, and WebMD. Professor Lazar is teaching The Cognitive Neuroscience of Mediation, COST 1020, at Brown this semester. More information can be found at https://scholar.harvard.edu/sara_lazar Events There are currently no events to display. Subscribe to our Listserv Featured Videos Video Link Catherine Kerr Vital Energy in Health and Healing... Dr. Shamini Jain, Founder and CEO of the Consciousness and... Contemplative Studies Virtual Commencement -... Contemplative Studies Virtual Commencement 2021 - April 29, 2021 The 18th Annual Mary Interlandi '05 Lecture... On April 12th, 2021 - Professor Rhonda Magee delivered the 18th Annual Mary Interlandi lecture, Change 'Gonna Come:... The Contemplative Music of South Asia Recital by Brown Professor Srinivas Reddy on March 19th, 2021 - The Contemplative Music of South Asia Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Contemplative Resources Affiliate & Related Sites Retreat Locations Guide Contemplatives at Brown Meditation Community Scholarly Works Un-DUG Facebook Page Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity