Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation School of Building Construction College of Design Main navigation About Chair's Welcome Hire a Graduate Student Alumni Engagement History Support the School Academics Bachelor of Science in Building Construction Undergraduate Certificate in Construction Management Master of Science in Building Construction and Facility Management Master of Real Estate Development Professional Master's in Occupational Safety and Health (Online) Ph.D. in Building Construction Future Students Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Get a Closer Look Current Students Research Economics of the Sustainable Built Environment Smart Built Environment Eco-System (Smart Bees) Lab People News and Events Open Search Search We Shape the Future of Construction We Shape the Future of Construction We see construction as the integrating discipline that brings together owners, developers, architects, engineers, technology experts, suppliers, facility managers, and occupants for the purpose of co-creating a harmonized and sustainable built environment. About the School Our Degrees Bachelor of Science in Building Construction MSBCFM Master of Real Estate Development PMOSH Ph.D. in Building Construction Congratulations, Candace Washington! Candace, a Master of Science in Building Construction and Facility Management student, won the Tower Award as a graduating Masters student. The award celebrates academic achievements of traditionally underrepresented students and is granted by OMED: Education Services. Georgia Tech Models Construction Education's Future Construction faculty from around the world gathered at Georgia Tech to shape the future of construction education. The Georgia Tech School of Building Construction, along with Kennesaw State University’s Department of Construction Management, hosted the 58th Annual Associated Schools of Construction (ASC) International Conference on April 20-23, 2022. Learn more about the ASC conference Read the full story Latest News Supply Chain Disruptions in Building/Construction Industry BSBC Alumna Named Outstanding Young Alumni BC Undergraduates Bring Robot to Wreck Parade Give 'Em Hell, Caddell CONECTech Lab Leads Drone Research CONECTech Lab receives $603,000 in grants to improve transportation infrastructures. Alumnus Builds a Multi-Million Dollar Business Sean Warner chose a major that he thought would help his Georgia grubs business succeed. Ashuri to Lead Massive Traffic Research Project Valdosta will upgrade smart traffic management system and connect all 128 traffic signals. Ph.D. Student is the New Interim Chair at KSU Irish Horsey, Ph.D. candidate, appointed interim chair at KSU's Department of Construction. Questions? If you can't find the information you were looking for, we'll get you to the right place. Contact Us Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN User account menu Log in