Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Department of Biostatistics Home About Academics Research People News Site Navigation Home Statistics Seminars Series Seminar Archive About Job Postings Our Partners Academics Doctoral Program Ph.D. FAQs Master's Program Sc.M. Degree 5th Year (A.M.)/OGE NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics Welcome from the chair Master's FAQs Undergraduate Concentration Career Information Series Resources Dissertation Spotlight Courses Introductory Biostatistics Courses Research People Administration Faculty Students Current Doctoral Students Current Master’s Students Alumni News News Item Submission Radiomics: The Digital Biopsy Biostatistics researchers in the Brown School of Public Health have developed a new, non-invasive approach to assessing and forecasting a range of diseases, using digital imaging instead of a scalpel. Read the article in Continuum Roee Gutman, Ph.D. breaks down his statistical research Assistant professor of biostatistics Roee Gutman explains his statistical research at the School of Public Health and his role as a teacher and mentor for undergraduates and graduate students. Watch the video Research The research enterprise in Biostatistics combines the creation of new statistical methods and the development of significant interdisciplinary research projects in collaboration with local, national, and international investigators. Center for Statistical Sciences Explore Biostatistics faculty members are key contributors to the development of interdisciplinary funded research projects at Brown but also at the national and international levels. Major current projects include: Multi-center clinical trials of diagnosis and prediction (Constantine Gatsonis, Fenghai Duan, Zheng Zhang). Biostatistics faculty provide methodologic expertise and leadership to multi-center studies of imaging modalities across the spectrum of care for cancer and other chronic diseases. The Center for Statistical Sciences hosts the Biostatistics Center of the American College of Radiology Imaging Network (ACRIN) since the formation of the network in 1999. CSS also co-hosts the Biostatistics Center of the recently formed ECOG-ACRIN Cancer Research Group. A large network of hospitals across the country and internationally participate in ACRIN and ECOG-ACRIN trials. HIV/AIDS Research (Joseph Hogan, Tao Liu, Xi Luo) CSS hosts the Biostatistics Cores for the Lifespan/Tufts/Brown Center for AIDS Research (CFAR) and the Brown Alcohol Research Center for HIV (ARCH). Each of these includes collaborations with researchers across SPH, Alpert Medical School, multiple public health research centers, and Brown’s affiliated hospitals. Research Synthesis (Christopher Schmid, Constantine Gatsonis). Research conducted in collaboration with Center for Evidence Based Medicine at Brown. Behavioral medicine (George Papandonatos, Tao Liu) Research collaborations with colleagues at Miriam, Rhode Island and Butler Hospitals in studies of tobacco addiction, nutrition and obesity studies, and behavioral epidemiology Neuroscience (Xi Luo, Joseph Hogan). Biostatistics faculty lead the Design and Analysis Core (DAC) of the Center for Nervous System Function (COBRE) at Brown, which brings together researchers from neuroscience, cognitive and linguistic sciences, biostatistics, computer science, applied math, and Brown’s affiliated hospitals to pursue fundamental research on brain function. Other research includes collaborations with neuroscientists at Brown and Yale. Health Care and Comparative Effectiveness Research (Roee Gutman, Costantine Gatsonis). Biostatistics faculty have extensive collaborations with colleagues in the Department of Health Services Policy and Practice and the Geriatrics and Extended Care Data Analysis Center (GEC DAC) and Center for Innovation in Long Term Services and Supports (COIN-LTSS) of the Providence VA. They are also involved in Cancer Care Delivery Research through the National Community Oncology Research Program (NCORP) of NCI. International Health (Joseph Hogan, Tao Liu). Biostatistics faculty work with the USAID-funded AMPATH Consortium, a collaboration between Moi University in Kenya and 18 universities in North America. They are also involved in NHLBI Center of Excellence for Cardiovascular Health, a joint project involving Brown, Duke and Indiana Universities in the US and Moi University in Kenya. Department of Biostatistics Department of Biostatistics Brown University Box G-S121-7 121 S Main St, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9831 Fax: 401-863-9182 Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top