Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Harvey and Lucinda Gantt Multicultural Center Hispanic and Latinx Heritage Month The Hispanic and Latinx Heritage Month Celebration was created with a desire to educate and heighten awareness about the rich culture. As the population continues to grow at Clemson University, we are encouraged by our peers and the administration to create opportunities for all members of our campus community to celebrate and find value in the contributions of Hispanics and Latinos. Ultimately we hope to begin cultivating a true inclusive environment built upon a passion for learning and mutual respect. Contact Robert Bryant (rbryan6@clemson.edu) to participate on the 2022 HLHM planning committee. Hispanic and Latinx Heritage Month 2021 Calendar of Events CLOC Kickoff Wednesday, September 15th at 6:30pm on the South Lawn (next to the Watt Innovation Center) Join the Clemson Latinx Organizations Council (CLOC) for free food and dancing as we kick off Hispanic and Latinx Heritage Month! Co-sponsored by University Libraries. Salsa at Sunset Friday, September 17th at 10:00pm at the Barnes Center Learn to Salsa! Pick up a few moves with one hour of free lessons in various Latin dances. Co-sponsored by the Division of Student Affairs. SHPE Industry Night Monday, September 20 from 6:00pm – 8:00pm The Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers hosts Industry Night. Talk to recruiters and network using a fun and virtual platform and prepare for the career fair! Sign up at https://tinyurl.com/2an763n Keynote Speaker: Dora Maria Abreu Wednesday, September 22nd at 6:00pm in the Watt Innovation Center Auditorium Dora Maria Abreu has spent her life uplifting those around her. From her involvement in the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers to being one of the Founding Mothers of Hermandad de Sigma Iota Alpha, Inc., Dora has committed her life to making a difference wherever she goes. Today, she continues to make a difference as a Regional Program Manager for Amazon while continuing her involvement not only in these two organizations, but also in many other mentorship opportunities! Come join us in an engaging conversation with her. Co-sponsored by TIGERS ADVANCE. CLOC Soccer Tournament Saturday, September 25th at 11:00am at Nettles Park The Clemson Latinx Organizations Council (CLOC) hosts as teams of four go head to head in a day of fun and competition! Register through the Latinos Unidos Instagram @cu_lucu. Orgullo (Pride) Monday, October 4th at 7:00pm via Zoom (https://clemson.zoom.us/j/96152158139) Join us as we explore the intersection of the Hispanic/Latinx community and the LGBTQIA+ community with a panel and clips from popular tv shows that show experiences of individuals that hold these identities. Co-sponsored in collaboration with the National Coming Out Week planning committee. Noche de Gala Saturday, October 16th at 7:00pm at the Madren Center Close out the month with a night of food, dancing, awards, and community! Join our closing celebration in this event as we celebrate not only the end of this heritage month but also all the wonderful people and cultures that make up the Hispanic/Latinx community! Tickets on sale through Eventbrite (https://www.eventbrite.com/e/noche-de-gala-tickets-166353829783?aff=ebdsoporgprofileor) or at the door. $15 for presale; $20 at the door. Co-sponsored by the Gantt Multicultural Center; University Housing & Dining; The Graduate School; College of Education; Department of Forestry & Environmental Conservation; Department of Sociology, Anthropology and Criminal Justice; Academic Success Center; and Humanities HUB. Please contact Robert Bryant at rbryan6@clemson.edu with questions. Home About The Gantts Dialogue Initiatives Intercultural Development Inventory International Festival LGBTQ Programs MLK Celebration Multicultural Programs Black History Month Hispanic and Latinx Heritage Month Programs and Events Student Outreach and Support Women's Celebration Month Asian Pacific Islander Desi Awareness Month Presentations and Outreach Contact Us Related Links Diversity and Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Equity Global Engagement Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram