Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Alumni Connect Get In Touch The SMU Network Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Update your info Find a Network All Networks Atlanta Chicago Dallas Houston L.A. New York San Francisco Washington D.C. Join a Group All Affinity Groups Black Alumni Hispanic Alumni Asian Alumni SMU Pride Military Alumni President's Scholars Hunt Scholars Serve Lead Alumni Board Young Alumni Board Black Alumni Board Hispanic Alumni Board Chapter Leadership Reunion Leadership Volunteer Volunteers 101 Hilltop Volunteers Career Volunteers Admission Volunteers Mentoring Reunion Committees 50-year Reunion Committee Nominate DAA Emerging Leader History Maker Alumni Board Member Young Alumni Board Member Black Alumni Board Member Hispanic Alumni Board Member Attend Events Events Calendar Homecoming Reunions DAA 50-year Reunion Taos Cultural Institute Founders' Day Weekend Golden Mustangs Athletics The Boulevard Watch Parties Tickets Map More Alumni Travel Program Campus Tours Stories Explore Alumni News SMU Magazine Share Class Notes Give ☰ The SMU Network Previous Next pause play hide show After the Hilltop Mustangs Keep Going More Real Talk with Black Alumni More Serving Those in Need More SMU Network More Mustangs in the Wild Meet Harvey A program analyst, cat lover, movie club watcher who reads CBO reports for fun. A native Texan who crunches numbers and helps out with the family floral business, Harvey Luna thrives on data and building relationships. We sat down with Harvey and his cat Cheney over Zoom to ask him a few questions. What do you do? I am in education research and evaluation at the Center on Research and Evaluation (CORE) in the Simmons School of Education & Human Development at SMU. CORE evaluates K-12 afterschool and summer school programs – their quality and their effects on students – as well as professional development for teachers, how teachers are being trained, the content of the training and adult learning. More Latest Events We Are SMU Alumni For all who leave the Hilltop but for whom the Hilltop never leaves, this is our creed. We are bold, curious and creative individuals who are driven to think big and do good. We are courageous changemakers, who work hard, play hard and strive to make the world a better place. We are champions for each other, our communities and the triumph of innovation in the face challenge. We are primed to see the world as a place of limitless opportunities. We are SMU alumni. Ignite the future for our students by December 17 We’re offering a dozen ways for you to think big and do good this holiday season. During this time of caring and sharing, we’re showcasing 12 scholarship funds that provide immediate support for the bold, the curious and the creative who are poised to change our world for the better. Your gift today will help usher in a new year filled with possibilities for these deserving students. Make a gift Update Your Information Stay Connected SMU Network Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Quick Links About Your Team Refer a Mustang Give Resources Hegi Career Center Continuing Education Handshake SMU Bookstore SMU License Plate Alumni Credit Card Alumni Insurance Program Order a Transcript Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share