Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Academic Advising Center Main Navigation About Us Show Extended What We Do General Education General Grad Requirements Undeclared Academic Success Liberal Education Major and Minor Exploration Staff Faculty Development Certificate Faculty and Staff Training Videos Navigate Student App AAC Office Location Gordon Hall-123(formerly University Hall), 800 N State College Blvd, Fullerton, California 92831 Academic advising center hours Days Office Hours: Advising Hours: Monday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 3:30 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Tuesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Wednesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Thursday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Friday 8 am — 12 pm 8:30 am —11:30 am Phone : (657) 278-3606 Fax : (657) 278-7146 Contact Academic Advising Center Current Students Show Extended Freshmen Major Exploration Remediation Tutoring Services Undeclared Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop AAT/AST Assist.org GE breadth certification Seniors Graduation Requirements Applying for Graduation Graduation Specialists Mandatory Advising Workshops FAQs Continuing Students Undeclared Undeclared Students Show Extended Major Exploration Titan Major Exploration Program Exploring Majors Appointments Assessing Personal and Career Interests Exploring Careers Declare a Major Prospective Students Show Extended Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop Incomplete TDAs Returning Students Major Advising Re-enrollment Information Incoming First Time Freshman AP Scores and Transcripts Academic Success Show Extended IMPROVING GPA Repeats Grade Forgiveness Balanced Schedule Time Management Academic support resources University Learning Center English Department Writing Center CBE Tutoring Center OCSAMS CASECS Student Technology Services Academic Notice and Disqualification Academic Notice Academic Disqualification Fullerton Finish TitanNet Academic Planner Academic Notice and Disqualification Requirements Major Exploration GPA Calculator AAC Virtual Printable FERPA Release Form Academic Notice Academic Disqualification Academic Notice Students are placed on Academic Notice/Continued Notice when their Cal State Fullerton (CSUF) and/or Cumulative GPA(s) fall or remain below a 2.0 (“C” average). Academic Notice Requirements RESET CoursE: To help students regain good academic standing and achieve academic success, all students placed on Academic Notice/Continued Notice are required to participate in the RESET course experience through Canvas. The RESET course is mandatory for all students who are placed on Academic Notice or Continued Notice at the end of Fall and/or Spring semesters. All Notice students will be automatically added to the course after academic standing is determined. *PLEASE NOTE: Students placed on Academic Notice or Continued Notice who have chosen to stop out for the current semester (not enrolled in any courses) will not be required to complete RESET until they return for the following semester (ex: if you are taking a stop out for spring, you will be required to complete RESET if/when you enroll into courses for the fall). RESET is designed to help students assess their current success strategies and reset as needed. After completing RESET requirements, students will better understand Academic Notice/Continued Notice, be aware of important University policies, better navigate academic and student wellness resources, utilize the GPA Calculator tool as needed, and update their strategies for academic improvement. There are five (5) required RESET tasks with corresponding learning activities to review the aforementioned topics. Learning activities help check for understanding and allow students to briefly reflect upon factors which may have contributed to their placement on Academic Notice or Continued Notice. Be sure to take notes throughout the RESET experience to keep yourself well informed about resources, policies, tips, and reminders. All tasks and learning activities must be completed by no later than the established dates listed in the course. Students are welcome to complete the tasks sooner, if desired. The RESET course is NOT graded and NOT credit-bearing. Advising: Please note that some academic colleges will require academic advising in addition to RESET. Check your CSUF email regularly for more information from your college and/or major department, and check out the list of Academic Notice Contacts below. The list includes links to your Student Success Team’s website where you may find more information about their requirements for Academic Notice. It also includes names and emails for appropriate advisors/specialists within your major’s college. Any students who do not complete RESET requirements by the established due date may receive an Academic Notice registration hold. This hold will remain until students complete all RESET requirements and any additional advising requirements established by their college and/or major department. Incomplete requirements will result in future course registration delays. Academic Notice Holds: To ensure an Academic Notice hold is not placed on your record or is released before next semester’s course registration period, review the below information and complete the steps: 1. During the week before spring or fall semester begins, you will be added to the RESET course. At that time, you will receive an email notification from CANVAS to accept your RESET course invitation. Click on the “Accept Invitation” link in that email or log into your Canvas account through your Student Portal and accept the course invitation there. 2. You can begin accessing course materials on the first day of the semester. Click on the RESET course icon on your Dashboard and complete all requirements as instructed. Take note of the RESET course “to-do list” dates as a guide to completing tasks within a timely manner. 3. Continue checking your CSUF email and/or visit your Student Success Team’s website for more information about any additional advising requirements. If applicable, complete your advising requirement accordingly. Academic Notice Contacts College Contact for Academic Notice Email Address College of the Arts Tracy Sohner, Retention Specialist tsohner@fullerton.edu College of Business and Economics First-time Freshmen placed on Notice at the end of their first semester : Andrea Aduna, Retention Specialist All other students: Assigned Business Advisor (check CSUF email for more info) aaduna@fullerton.edu businessadvising@fullerton.edu College of Communications Freshmen & Sophomores: Axis Avalos, Retention Specialist Juniors (60-84 units): Connie Chen or Stephanie Malone Juniors (85-89 units) & Seniors: Connie Chen or Tammy Rogers axavalos@fullerton.edu yjchen@fulleton.edu stmalone@fullerton.edu trogers@fullerton.edu College of Engineering and Computer Science Freshmen & Sophomores: Elaina Sidney , Retention Specialist Juniors & Seniors: Elizabeth Gomez , Graduation Specialist elsidney@fullerton.edu elgomez@fullerton.edu College of Health and Human Development Chris Bell, Retention Specialist chbell@fullerton.edu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Freshmen, Sophomores, & Seniors: Natalie Oliva , Retention Specialist Juniors: Julianne Vartanian , Retention Specialist hssretention@fullerton.edu College of Natural Science and Mathematics Freshmen & Sophomores: Abe Roldan , Retention Specialist Juniors & Seniors: Sam Barrozo , Graduation Specialist aroldan@fullerton.edu sbarrozo@fullerton.edu Undeclared (no declared major) Lilly Quinones, Retention Specialist lquinones@fullerton.edu Important Campus Resources: Campus Resource links and instagram Campus Resources Website Links: Instagram Academic Advising Center (AAC)(GE Advising, understanding TDA, major exploration, discuss overall graduation requirements) Go to AAC Website @csufaac Adult Reentry & Parenting Student Programs (Adult Learners) Go to WARC Website @csuf_warc A-Z Index for CSUF Website (Find any department on campus) Visit the list of all CSUF websites Career Center (Explore career pathways, internships, jobs, career fairs, etc.) Go to Career Center Website @csufcareer Catalog (Find different majors, course descriptions, and academic policies) Visit University catalog Clubs and Organizations (Log into TitanLink to view full list) Go to SLL Website @csufsll Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) (Mental wellness - individual and group counseling) Go to CAPS Website (24/7 Crisis Counselor: 657-278-3040) @csufcaps Disability Support Services (DSS) (Accommodations, accessibility, notetaking, general assistance) Go to DSS Website @csuf_dss Diversity Initiatives and Resource Centers (Ethnic and Identity Centers: AARC, APARC, LGBTQRC, LCRC, and TDRC) Go to DIRC Website DIRC - @csufdirc AARC - @csufaarc APARC - @csufaparc LCRC - @lcrc_csuf LGBTQRC - @lgbtq.csuf TDRC - @csuf_tdrc Financial Aid (FAFSA - Loans, Grants, Scholarships) Go to Financial Aid Website @csuf_officeoffinancialaid GPA Calculator (Explore what-if grade scenarios) Calculate GPA Library (Pollak Library) (Hours of operation, research assistance, books/media) Go to the Library Website @pollaklibrary Major Advising (search for department website) Visit Major Department List Registration & Records (University Policies, Forms, Student Records) Visit Registration and Records Registration Guide(Semester deadlines and important dates) Go to Registration Guide Website Student Business Services (Tuition, Fees, Payments, TIPP) Go to the SBS Website @csufsbs Student Success Centers (Advisors, Retention Specialists, Graduation Specialists, and College Career Specialists) Go to SSC Website COTA - @cotassc CBE - @csufbusiness COMM - @commcsuf ECS - @csufecs HHD - @csufhhd_ssc HSS – @csuf_hss_success NSM – @nsm_ssc UNDC - @csuf_aac Student Health & Wellness (Physical and Mental Health) Go to Student Wellness Website @titanwell Tuffy's Basic Needs Services Center(Identifies and serves students who are experiencing an unforeseen hardship, emergency, crisis, or catastrophic life event) Visit Tuffy's Basic Needs Tutoring (Also check with your major college for additional tutoring services) Go to University Learning Center (ULC) Go to The Writing Center Website Go to the Math Tutoring Website Visit Student Success Center ULC - @csuf_ulc Writing - @csufwritingcenter Math: @nsm_ssc Veterans Resource Center (VRC) (Services to military-connected students that support personal, academic, and professional success) Go to the VRC Website @csufvrc WoMen's Center (educating on issues of gender and social equity through a feminist lens, support services, leadership opportunities, educational programs and advocacy) Go to the WoMen's center website @csuf_warc This site is maintained by Academic Advising Center. Last Published 5/11/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact zz-pasharma@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.