Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Marketing + Communications Marketing + Communications right arrow down arrow Creative + Brand right arrow down arrow Photo + Video right arrow down arrow Photocatalog Brand + Design right arrow down arrow University Brand Guide Brand Guide for Digital Use Brand Resources Digital + User Experience right arrow down arrow Analytics Web (AEM) right arrow down arrow Accessibility Digital Governance right arrow down arrow DNS Requests Web Policy AEM User Guide right arrow down arrow Getting Started in AEM Sites Console Creating Pages Editing Pages Advanced Tips & Tricks News Social right arrow down arrow Social Media Policy Social Media Strategy Social Media Account Request Form Social Media Content Request Form Social Media Feedback Form Social Media Ambassador Program Marketing + Advertising Media + Content right arrow down arrow UC News UC Magazine Media Contacts Resources right arrow down arrow Push Forward Push Forward Toolkit Contact Home » About UC » Marketing + Communications » Digital + User Experience » Web (AEM) » AEM User Guide » Creating Pages Set Navigation title in component Analytics Web (AEM) Accessibility Digital Governance DNS Requests Web Policy AEM User Guide Getting Started in AEM Sites Console Creating Pages Editing Pages Advanced Tips & Tricks News Social Social Media Policy Social Media Strategy Social Media Account Request Form Social Media Content Request Form Social Media Feedback Form Social Media Ambassador Program Creating Pages Your site is built of several pages. Each page consists of certain areas that are inherited based on the template and also a main content section where you can add components and content. Select a Template Page Properties Create a Page Select the location within your site where you would like to create a new page. Any new page you create will live directly below the page you have selected. New pages will always be added to the bottom of any other existing pages at that level. If you need, you can rearrange the new page using the list view. If the blue create button is not available in the location you are trying to create a new page, you do not have permissions to create a page in that location. Ensure you are working within the correct site or reach out to your apex user to confirm your permissions. Select a Template Select "Create" and then "Page" from the drop down menu. You will then be served an array of templates to use from. The templates available are based on the location of the page. When working within an established site, most of the pages that will be created are child pages. A basic overview of the template hierarchy is as follows: Home page Parent Page Child Page Child Page Parent Page Child Page Child Page Child Page Child Page Parent Page Child Page Child Page Child Page Child Page Child Page After you chose a page template, select "next". You will then be taken to the "Page Properties" screen where you will input vital information for your page. AEM Tip More information about the other templates available can be found in our advanced tips & tricks section. Page Properties After you select your template, the page properties screen is where you will enter most of the information about your page. Name, Page/Search/Browser Title and Main Content H1 (News Headline) are all required to create a page. Some other fields can be used to help boost the SEO for your page. AEM Tip In the page properties screen, click the "i" with a circle around it for reminders on what each page property field correlates to. Name The first field you will fill out is your page name which creates the end of your page's URL. A page's URL is determined by the string of pages that live above the page you are creating. For example, uc.edu/campus-life/student-affairs is a complete URL with the page name being "student-affairs". There are some specific guidelines to use when creating your page URL: use only lowercase letters use hyphens, not underscores to separate words eliminate short words (and, or, of) to keep your URL short avoid duplicating words already used in the URL. For example, you shouldn't include uc as it is already at the beginning of the URL Page/Search/Browser Title The text entered in this field will display in the tab of the web browser and also as the title of the page in search results. There is a character limit of 60 to align with SEO best practices. Tags Tags are a tool used with the news system in AEM. Do not add any tags to your page unless you need to use them in conjunction with the news list lens. Site Title Site Titles should not be used without first connecting with your apex user. They are intended to be added to a homepage only. Main Content h1 (News Headline) The h1 on the page will be the first large header that appers on the page. This should be meaningful and descriptive of the content on the page. Navigation Title The navigation titles allows use of a more concise page name that will display in navigational elements on the page. The text used in this field will show in any navigation menus across the top of the page, in the left-hand navigation on pages and also in the breadcrumbs that appear at the top, directly above the h1. Shorter navigation titles allow users to more quickly scan and navigate for the information they are seraching for. Metadata/Description The Metadata and Description field is the best place to help improve the SEO for your page. With a limit of 156 characters, use keyword-rich sentences that describe to a user what they will find on this page. Finish When you have filled in all the required fields, the create button in the top right corner will turn blue, indicating that you can now create your page. After the page has been created you can either open it for editing or return to the sites console. Next Editing Pages University of Cincinnati Edwards 2, Suite 3300 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-3001 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Edwards 2, Suite 3300 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-3001 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top