Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING CIVIL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING CONSTR,ENERGY,AND SUSTAINABLE INFRSTRCTR Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 CESI 501 Distributed Renewable Power Systems (3) Electrical distributed renewable generation. The depth of coverage is suitable for civil engineers and their role as project managers. Topics covered include: (1) microgrids, (2) renewable generation fundamentals, (3) utility economics, and (4) energy planning and simulation. Prerequisite: Graduate Standing Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 501 CESI 502 Geomatics in Energy Infrastructure (3) Overview of basic techniques for location measurements in energy construction projects using traditional surveying techniques, recently developed technologies for surface creation, and data management and analysis using GIS. Prerequisite: Graduate Standing Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 502 CESI 503 Operation of a Power Plant (3) Explores power plant operations. Topics include plant operating principles, regulatory permitting, maintenance requirements, and plant design and upgrades. Prerequisite: Graduate Standing Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 503 CESI 504 Buildings, LEED, and Energy Use (3) Overview on how to plan, design, construct and manage high performance building infrastuctures. Topics include integrated project delivery, green building rating systems, building energy modeling, indoor environmental qualities, and green building economics. Prerequisite: Graduate Standing Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 504 CESI 505 Air Pollution Control and Occupational Safety and Health (3) Overview on the fundamental air pollution issues involved in construction and operation of energy facilities and the management of large vehicle fleets. Topics include emission estimation, control technology assessment, ambient air impacts, and technology specific issues of worker safety and health. Prerequisite: Graduate Standing Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 505 CESI 506 Management of Site Remediation, Hazardous Waste, and On-Site Treatment (3) Covers the project management practices to ensure protection of human health and the environment when handling sites contaminated with hazardous waste generated by traditional and renewable energy sources. It includes identification of hazards, communication of risks and introduces alternatives for hazardous waste clean-up. Prerequisite: Graduate Standing Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 506 CESI 508 Accounting and Finance for Construction (3) Introduction to construction oriented financial management. Explains why construction financial management is different than financial management in other industries. Describes how to account for a company's financial resources and how to build a company's accounting system. Prerequisite: Graduate Standing Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 508 CESI 509 Engineering Rome: Study Abroad (5) Muench Covers Roman civil engineering over 3,000 years from Ancient Rome to the present day. Introduces civil engineering topics reinforced by practical engineering calculations, local experts, and site visits. Provides international and historical perspective on engineering and the contributions of engineers to infrastructure and society. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 509 CESI 510 Electric Grids (1) Overview of utility design, operation and construction including an electrical grid's system components and functions. This includes generation, transmission, sub-transmission and distribution. These grid components will be explained as to how they are operated by a utility. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 510 CESI 511 Grid Integration of Variable Sources of Generation (1) Overview of the advantages and challenges associated with the integration of variable sources of generation into the electric grid and distribution systems. It will focus on weather-driven renewables such as wind, solar, and hydropower. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 511 CESI 512 Regulating Electric Utilities (1) Overview on how state utility commissions function including how they regulate utilities, influence permitting and participate in rid management and regional electric markets. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 512 CESI 513 Operation and Maintenance of a Wind Farm (1) Operation and maintenance associated with a wind and solar project owned and operated by a major utility in Washington State. Included is an overview of the project including construction aspects, how it is managed and the major maintenance issues. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 513 CESI 514 Hydroelectric Project Relicensing (1) Relicensing of a hydroelectric project in Washington State and includes an overview of the project and the issues faced by the owner in applying for an extension to its federal operating license. This includes the design and construction of a floating fish enhancement structure. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 514 CESI 519 Trends and Applications in E-Construction (1) Developments in eConstruction. The focus will be heavy construction such as bridges, pavements and energy infrastructure. Specific content will be on eConstruction inspector tools and related construction applications. Emphasis will be placed on the use of mobile multi-platform tools and devices. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 519 CESI 520 Electricity Fundamentals (1) Refresher for engineers as to the basics associated with electricity as it relates to power production and distribution. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 520 CESI 521 Introduction to AutoCAD and Bluebeam (1) Introduction to engineering drafting and graphical communication. Includes application of drafting standards and structure as well as creating and modifying basic drawings in AutoCAD and Bluebeam software. It should only be taken by those without prior knowledge of this topic area. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 521 CESI 522 Introduction to AutoTURN (1) Focus on AutoTURN which is used to analyze road and site design projects including vertical and horizontal curves, intersections, haul roads and vehicle clearances and turning maneuvers. The software is commonly used in energy infrastructure design and construction activities. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 522 CESI 524 Statistical Methods for Construction (1) Overview of basic statistical measures used in construction and materials decision-making including data distributions, hypothesis testing, regression analysis, sampling and quality control/assurance. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 524 CESI 525 Wind Turbine Analysis (1) Wind turbine assessments, including hardware and software for performing such assessments. Includes load testing, power performance, and blade and tower bending. Prerequisite: Graduate standing. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: SpS. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 525 CESI 526 Ropeway Transportation (1) Overview of ropeway transportation system fundamentals. Focuses on basic principles for achieving an understanding of the currently available types of technology, their characteristics and limitations, as well as construction and operation considerations and their economics. "Ropeway transportation" is a generic name for cable car transportation. Prerequisite: graduate standing; recommended: CEE graduate status. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 526 CESI 527 Introduction to Power Cycles, Heat Transfer, and Economics (1) Covers energy infrastructure fundamentals. Focuses on basic principles associated with power plant steam and combined cycles, heat transfer, and economics. Overview of selection of power plant operating principles and costs. Prerequisite: Graduate enrollment; recommended: Graduate status in CEE. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 527 CESI 528 Pavement Design for Project Roads (1) This course will cover an overview on methods used to design and construct pavement structures. The types of pavements will range from gravel surfaced to bituminous surface roads and parking lots and focus on energy infrastructure applications. Prerequisite: Graduate enrollment; recommended: Graduate status in CEE. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 528 CESI 529 Supplemental Pavement Topics (1) Covers topics in pavement design. Includes pavement responses and layered elastic analysis; rehabilitation by use of HMA overlays; rigid pavement design; and pervious pavement design and construction. Prerequisite: Graduate enrollment; recommended: Graduate status in CEE. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 529 CESI 534 Transmission Construction (1) Overview of the high-voltage electric transmission system, and how this infrastructure is constructed. Focuses on project planning, substation construction, transmission line construction, quality control/quality assurance, operations, and safety. Prerequisite: graduate standing; recommended: Civil and Environmental Engineering graduate status. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 534 CESI 535 Introduction to Cybersecurity Issues for Construction and Energy Infrastructure (1) Builds understanding of cybersecurity concepts and risks including core cybersecurity issues related to the construction and energy industries. Utilizes lectures, selected readings from business and news sources on cybersecurity topics, and discussions to understand the risks and challenges in construction and energy infrastructure. Prerequisite: Graduate standing; recommended: Civil and Environmental Engineering graduate status. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: WS. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 535 CESI 536 Geometric Road Design for Projects (1) Introduces geometric design as applied to infrastructure project construction and operations. Topics include limitations of traffic volume, loads, turns, intersections, and grade. Covers basic concepts, limitations and techniques that enable project personnel to make informed decisions and supervise similar works efficiently. Prerequisite: graduate standing; recommended: Civil and Environmental Engineering graduate status. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 536 CESI 537 Introduction to Civil 3D for Project Design (1) Teaches students to handle construction design drawings for energy infrastructure projects efficiently. Covers how to navigate, edit, modify and red-ink remarks on construction design drawings prepared using AutoCAD Civil 3D. Prerequisite: graduate standing; recommended: Civil and Environmental Engineering graduate status. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 537 CESI 538 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems (1) Provides a brief overview of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) theory and practice, as well as an introduction to GIS software. Covers the limitations, requirements, and capabilities of GIS that can aid in large data organization, project management, and decision-making. Prerequisite: graduate standing; recommended: Civil and Environmental Engineering graduate status. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 538 CESI 539 Introduction to Construction Materials (1) Joe P Mahoney Introduces common construction materials used in infrastructure projects. Major topics are: aggregates, bituminous materials, Portland cement, concrete, and wood. Includes related standards, rules and test methods that are typically used to assess quality. Develops ability to make project related decisions on applicability and use of these materials. Prerequisite: graduate standing; recommended: Civil and Environmental Engineering graduate status. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 539 CESI 552 Environmental Regulations (3) I&S Principal emphasis on regulations pertaining to construction site stormwater runoff, including regulatory background and requirements, how to analyze potential site problems and prepare plans to solve them, and specifying practices to avoid or reduce water pollutant releases. Briefer coverage of regulations concerning air pollutions, wetlands, hazardous wastes, and endangered species. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 552 CESI 588 Energy Infrastructure and the Environment (3) Larson, Mahoney Focuses on energy infrastructure, including site selection, permitting, design, construction, and maintenance. Includes electrical production facilities as well as transmission, focusing on permitting and construction of renewable energy facilities. Covers renewable energy infrastructure, emphasizing wind, solar, and geothermal. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 588 CESI 592 Statistical Fundamentals for Construction and Materials Applications (3) S. Muench Overview of statistical measures used in various construction and materials decision-making processes. Subjects include data distributions, hypothesis tests (making decisions with statistics), regression analysis, sampling, quality control and assurance, and experimental design. Uses construction data to illustrate these measures. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 592 CESI 594 Computer-Aided Construction (3) Application of information technology to construction management and cost estimating. Topics include, but not limited to, computerized construction, fundamentals of computer hardware, construction management software tools, web publishing, GPS application, and construction data management. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 594 CESI 595 Construction Materials (3) Mahoney Examines the use of aggregates, bituminous mixtures, Portland cement concrete, roller compacted concrete, soil and site stabilization, utility cuts, and flowable backfill in construction projects. Emphasis on behavior of materials in various construction applications. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 595 CESI 596 Pavement Construction (3) Muench Examines pavement construction, including pavement contracts and specifications, quality control and assurance programs, and plant and laydown operations. Reviews both national and international pavement construction practices. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 596 CESI 599 Special Topics in Construction, Energy and Sustainable Infrastructure (1-5, max. 20) Special topics in construction, energy and sustainable infrastructure offered occasionally by permanent or visiting faculty members. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CESI 599 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022