Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Mechanical Engineering About ME About ME Message from the Chair Mission and Objectives Contact Us Open Positions ABET Accreditation Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Research Research Faculty Research Areas Laboratories Research Center for Advanced Manufacturing Undergraduate Research Opportunities People News & Events News & Events Seminars Student Groups ☰ Mechanical Engineering Mechanical Engineering Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs The Department of Mechanical Engineering offers three major programs and one minor in mechanical engineering. Select the 'More Info' button next to each program for additional information. To apply, select the 'Apply' button below. Apply Majors B.S.M.E. in Mechanical Engineering Mechanical Engineering is a diverse, dynamic and exciting field. Mechanical engineers have wide-ranging technical backgrounds and a high potential for employment with mobility and professional growth. They apply creative knowledge to solve critical problems in many areas, from bioengineering to transportation. More Info B.S.M.E. in Mechanical Engineering (Engineering Management and Entrepreneurship Specialization) In addition to the standard Mechanical Engineering curriculum, students will complete coursework in engineering leadership and entrepreneurship. This program enables students to satisfy the requirements for a Mechanical Engineering degree while preparing them for management roles in engineering. More Info B.S.M.E. in Mechanical Engineering (Premedical Biomedical Specialization) The Mechanical Engineering Department offers a B.S.M.E. degree with a premedical/biomedical specialization. This program enables students to satisfy the premedical or predental requirements for admission to medical or dental school, while at the same time satisfying the requirements for an accredited degree in Mechanical Engineering. More Info Minor Mechanical Engineering Minor For approval of a minor in Mechanical Engineering, students are encouraged to consult the department. The five courses representing a minor provide a broad introduction to Mechanical Engineering. Based on the student’s interests and background, other sets of Mechanical Engineering courses may be substituted with the department’s approval. More Info Academics Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus