Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Art, Art History, and Film Menu Main Nav Art, Art History, and Film Department Art, Art History, and Film Contact Back Back Close About Overview Contact Position Openings Awards and Honors Spring 2022 Spring 2021 Spring 2020 Giving to the Art Department People Academics Overview Art History Major and Minor Arts Core Courses Study Abroad Opportunities for Students Careers and Graduate School Resources and Facilities Film Studies Major and Minor Arts Core Courses Study Abroad Resources and Facilities Studio Art Major and Minor Arts Core Courses Study Abroad Resources and Facilities News & Events Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Art, Art History, and Film Home Academics Film Studies Film Studies Major and Minor Arts Core Courses Study Abroad Resources and Facilities Why Study Film Studies? Film shapes the way we view a culture. What our Film Studies Program hopes that students take away from a study of cinema is an understanding of the cultural, artistic and humanistic perspectives that have gone into the creation of the best films in the repertoire since the inception of the artistic form. The Film Studies Program helps students find his or her own niche and interest in film. Many students immerse themselves in film production. They learn to make short films early on in Filmmaking I and then move on to more developed story-telling in Filmmaking II. In Filmmaking III, each student writes, shoots, and edits his/her own short film. Then, at the end of the semester, each film is projected for an audience at an on-campus screening. Cinematography courses and Adobe Premiere editing capabilities assist students who wish to become more involved in semi-professional filmmaking. Students who take Film Studies courses go on to pursue a number of careers. Some become documentary filmmakers, producers or film editors. Others go into film marketing and advertising. Some work in industries such as television or media production houses. On occasion, a film student works with museum education and outreach staff as a videographer. Some students are accepted into graduate programs such as those at USC, UCLA, NYU, BU, Emerson, etc. Other students study and make films for the sheer passion of doing so while they pursue other disciplines. Internships are available to help students discern what avenue of the media world they would like to pursue. Here at BC, the Film Studies Program helps students take advantage of the very successful Eagle Internship offerings of stipends for unpaid film internships. The Jacques Salmanowitz grants program has provided a means for students to make international documentaries relating to social justice issues to share with the BC community at the annual Arts Festival. Why Study Film? Discover what people are saying about Film Studies. Jacques Salmanowitz Program The Jacques Salmanowitz Program for Moral Courage in Film is devoted to encouraging the production of film concerned with acts of moral courage, providing role models for youth worldwide. The Salmanowitz Program serves as a resource for student filmmakers across the disciplines who wish to create documentaries that will inspire future generations. Jacques Salmanowitz Program Website Back To Top Back To Top Art, Art History, and Film Department Devlin Hall 434 617-552-4295 Facebook Twitter Instagram Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College