Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About About the UW Diversity Global Impact Innovation Leadership Maps Population Health Sustainability Visit Academics Academic calendar Academic departments Colleges and schools Course descriptions Registration Student guide Time schedule Apply Admissions Financial Aid Continuing education Majors Student housing Transfer students Tuition and fees Undocumented students UW Online News & Events UW News Featured stories Arts UW Calendar UW Magazine Husky sports Newsletter Research Office of Research Research Lifecycle Resources Collaboration Stats and rankings Campuses Bothell Seattle Tacoma Give Give now Ways to give My UW Giving About the UW Menu About About the UW Diversity Global Impact Innovation Leadership Maps Population Health Sustainability Visit Academics Academic calendar Academic departments Colleges and schools Course descriptions Registration Student guide Time schedule Apply Admissions Financial Aid Continuing education Majors Student housing Transfer students Tuition and fees Undocumented students UW Online News & Events UW News Featured stories Arts UW Calendar UW Magazine Husky sports Newsletter Research Office of Research Research Lifecycle Resources Collaboration Stats and rankings Campuses Bothell Seattle Tacoma Give Give now Ways to give My UW Giving Home About the UW Addressing letters to the UW Addressing letters to the UW UW address format Name, Title (or student) Department (or Hall) / University of Washington Building / Room Number Box 35XXXX Street Address (if there is one available. Check the online department’s website or ask the person you are sending mail to) Seattle, WA 98195-XXXX Each UW department (or building, such as a residence hall) has its own USPS campus box and ZIP+4 code. If you are sending mail or shipping packages using the USPS, you will use campus box numbers with the format above. If you are using another shipper, use the format above without the campus box number. The best way to guarantee that you have the correct address is to contact the addressee via email or telephone first and request their address. Most frequently requested addresses UW Departments – A list of UW Departments that have provided their information for inclusion in the UW Directory. UW Faculty/Staff/Student Directory – Some people op-out of the main directory and/or may be found in their own departmental directories online. Telephone and email contacts – A phone and email list of contacts at the UW. Visitors Center – If you need additional assistance with UW addresses, contact the Visitors Information Center at 206-543-9198, uwvic@uw.edu UW box numbers The University of Washington, in cooperation with the USPS, uses a six-digit box number format. All UW box numbers begin with 35____. The last four digits are unique to each office and comprise the last four digits of the ZIP code. UW Box numbers for faculty and staff are listed in the UW Faculty/Staff/Student Directory. UW Box numbers for departments are listed in Departmental Box Numbers. A complete UW Seattle campus ZIP code is 98195 + the last four digits of the box number. For example, the zip code for box number 352700 would be: 98195-2700 Frequently requested contacts Office of Admissions (Seattle campus, Undergraduate) Website Schmitz Hall Box 355852 1410 NE Campus Parkway Seattle WA 98195-5852 206-543-9686 Office of the University Registrar Website Second Floor, Schmitz Hall Box 355850 1410 NE Campus Parkway Seattle, WA 98195-5850 Generic address for forms 1410 NE Campus Parkway Seattle, WA 98195 Human Resources/Employment Website uwhires@uw.edu 206-543-2544 Apply to the UW The UW has thriving campuses in Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma and robust professional and continuing education programs. Learn more UW News Critical race theory at center of UW study of unequal access to treatment for opioid addiction With EcoCAR, UW students experience post-COVID camaraderie under the hood of a hybrid vehicle Video: Alexes Harris draws attention to low representation of people of color in bone marrow registryMore The UW at a glance The UW is a multi-campus university in Seattle, Tacoma and Bothell, as well as a world-class academic medical center. The UW’s colleges and schools offer 1,800 undergraduate courses each quarter. We confer more than 12,000 bachelor’s, master’s, doctoral and professional degrees annually. Colleges and schools Arts & Sciences Built Environments Business Computer Science & Engineering Dentistry Education Engineering Environment Graduate Information International Studies Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Public Policy & Governance Social Work Campus living Student Life Dining Housing Safety Contact Common emails and phone numbers Addressing letters to the UW UW directory Office directory University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA