Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship Through our minors and two graduate programs, the Division of Arts Management and Arts Entrepreneurship prepares future managers, entrepreneurs and innovators for long-term careers in arts organizations, creative endeavors and the creative economy. In addition to learning high-level managerial skills, our developing arts managers can act entrepreneurially within the professional companies they work for, consequently becoming highly valuable to their organizations. Meadows’ arts entrepreneurs devise original creative concepts and strategies to build impactful organizations. Simultaneously, they acquire skills to manage their original entrepreneurial visions, organizations and teams to found and grow unique, sustainable creative endeavors of value. Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Classes (See Catalog) Faculty Alumni Internships NCAR AAMD Report NCAR NEA Study Arts Entrepreneurship Resources Register Now: Celebrate a New Era of Arts and Nonprofit Leadership Undergraduate Majors/Minors Arts Entrepreneurship Arts Management Graduate Majors/Minors M.A./M.B.A. in Arts Management M.M. in International Arts Management event Karen Brooks Hopkins An Evening with Karen Brooks Hopkins, President Emerita of the Brooklyn Academy of Music (BAM) April 7 Dean Samuel Holland interviews Karen Brooks Hopkins about her new book, an inspiring memoir of her 36 years at the iconic cultural institution, America's oldest performing arts center. Register Here Meet the Faculty Sandra Duhé Chair ad interim, Arts Management and Arts Entrepreneurship James Hart Director of Arts Entrepreneurship; Professor of Practice; Director, Meadows Artist Bridge; Faculty-in-Residence of McElvaney Commons James Ryan Jillson Adjunct Lecturer Maureen A. Mixtacki, CPA, CGMA Adjunct Lecturer Andrea Perez Adjunct Lecturer Jill Robinson Adjunct Professor Alex Turrini Adjunct Professor Zannie Voss Professor; Director, SMU DataArts Featured Courses AMAE 3301 Introduction to Arts Management James Jillson Provides a foundation in the management of arts organizations, creative enterprises and other endeavors. Students explore key issues in the management of arts organizations and events at local, regional, national and international levels. AMAE 3387 Creative Entrepreneurship and Attracting Capital Jim Hart and James Jillson Students gain fundamental skills in creative entrepreneurship, explore ways to attract capital, learn about legal structure and discover how to differentiate themselves from competition in the market. Topics include ideation, adaptation, pitching investors and more. AMAE 3305 Budgeting and Financial Literacy in the Arts Maureen Mixtacki Students learn about the financial management of arts-related businesses and creative entrepreneurship endeavors from a practical perspective. Activities include preparing a mission statement and budget, learning how to analyze financial reports and more. AMAE 4390 Developing Creative Strategies: Planning for Success Jim Hart Students brainstorm; develop original concepts; and explore business models, team-building and innovation to create a plan of action for a career in the arts and creative economy. AMAE 3370 Entrepreneurship and the Hero Adventure Jim Hart Students draw parallels between the "hero journey" structure in storytelling and the grand adventure of entrepreneurship to gain perspective and a practical structure to use to help build a unique career and life in the arts. Resource Meadows Artist Bridge Featured Resource The Meadows Artist Bridge was created by the Division of Arts Management and Arts Entrepreneurship and the Division of Music. The platform connects interested SMU music students with people seeking to hire them for performances, teaching and other professional opportunities. The Meadows Artist Bridge is a unique resource that further establishes SMU Meadows as a leader in arts entrepreneurship. Meadows Artist Bridge Student Work Arts Management and Arts Entrepreneurship Julia Baca, a current M.A./M.B.A. student, earned her bachelor’s degree in viola at SMU in 2020. An arts management and arts entrepreneurship minor, she conducted an independent study on how women become community leaders and presented her findings at a national conference. Arts Management and Arts Entrepreneurship Tandis Esfandiari (’23) is a social media chef, influencer and entrepreneur who has cultivated a large following through her TikTok reviews and recipes. Her website, Mixitupbaby.com., and videos are viewed internationally and have led to partnerships with companies such as Samsung. Arts Management and Arts Entrepreneurship Theatre alumna Alysia Giakoumas (’21) founded The Playground Acting Program in Dallas, offering premium acting classes for students ages eight through adult. Students learn acting techniques taught at the top universities while mastering soft skills like public speaking. Alysia Giakaoumas, Theatre, ’21 Arts Management and Arts Entrepreneurship Lidya Winnie studied arts entrepreneurship and earned a degree in markets and culture at SMU in 2019. She founded Konjo Beauty, a natural skincare brand for women with different skin colors and skin conditions. Faculty But What Does Arts Entrepreneurship Even Mean? Article By Jim Hart, written for Americans for the Arts blog Read more Upcoming AMAE Events Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search