SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Join forces with the bold optimists at SMU Cox, where we're forging a new future – together. A close-knit community At SMU Cox, small class size and a culture of support bring students together in a way that is unusual in a business school. In classes, breakout groups and teams, we learn from each other. The whole Cox community feels the connective tissue: The shared challenges, together with the push to excel that each student experiences here, create warm bonds that can last a lifetime. I enjoyed being able to collaborate with and learn from a diverse group of classmates. It’s wonderful that the people from the SMU Cox community have your back whenever you need them. Preet Grewal MBA 2018 Deeply engaged Every day, students are making connections that strengthen business skills and shape us into the leaders of tomorrow. Cox’s business-oriented organizations grow the bonds that build a valuable peer network on campus. From national business fraternities to a student-run investment portfolio, we're coming together for education, service and professional development — and to build relationships. I’m most proud of the opportunity to learn how to handle a challenging curriculum while balancing my time to network with other professionals and classmates. Elie Nabushosi 2018 MSM, 2019 MBA Candidate Resourceful, inventive, confident With students hailing from Morocco to Alabama and everywhere in between, SMU Cox attracts the brightest young business minds from around the globe. Brimming with ambition and bold new ideas, students are pursuing passions and spinning them into start-ups, exciting new careers and the ideas the world needs now. At SMU Cox we find our nourishment, our lab, our launchpad. The smartphone app I created, Just Drive, is a perfect combination of my interests in human rights and marketing. It combines business with a philanthropic cause. Neha Husein ’19 Founder of the Just Drive App Read Neha's story Our Faculty If there were a B-school award for most face-time with professors, SMU’s Cox School of Business might win it. At Cox, we attract professors who are not only respected for their industry experience and innovative research — these teachers love teaching. Sreekumar Bhaskaran, Associate Professor of ITOM One of Poets&Quants' "Best 40 B-School Profs Under the Age of 40,” Sreekumar's research focuses on new product development and innovation. Learn More Robin Pinkley, Professor of Management and Organizations A recognized authority on strategic negotiation and conflict management, Robin consults for corporate and government organizations. Learn more James Linck, Finance Department Chair An award-winning educator, Jim's work on corporate finance, governance and control has been widely published in academic journals. Learn more Simon Mak, Professor of Practice in Entrepreneurship With extensive Silicon Valley startup/IPO experience,Simon has a passion for entrepreneurship that's summed up by "#PeaceLoveStartups." Learn more Kumar Venkataraman, Professor of Finance Kumar excels at helping students connect the dots between theory and practice, teaming with outside speakers to illustrate the finer points of finance. Learn more Our Alumni, Changing the Face of Business She wanted to help Dallas's burgeoning tech scene, so SMU alum Gabriella Draney created what has become a Forbes Top 10 seed accelerator for startups, Tech Wildcatters. See More Alums SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter