Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Academics Courses & Enrollment myUH Staff Academics Majors & Minors Graduate & Professional Programs UH Faculty Colleges & Departments Libraries & Learning Resources Courses & Enrollment Steps to Enroll myUH Students Staff First Time Users Faculty Class Schedule Enrollment Schedule Enrollment FAQ Final Exam Schedules Policies & Procedures TCCNS Updates Online and Special Programs Academic Forms myUH Welcome to The myUH Student Administration PeopleSoft Training Information Page for Staff Staff members requiring access to view and work with student information must attend specific courses before access will be granted. COVID-19 Update! The myUH Student Administration (PeopleSoft) training will continue as scheduled in P.A.S.S. The training sessions will be delivered electronically, using the Skype technology. Employees should continue to register for training. Participants will receive specifics regarding the sessions one day prior to the session from the facilitator. Participants must also have access to the UHVPN in order to log into the training databases if joining the sessions remotely. Please read the myUH Student Administration Training Information. This document contains important information on how to register for training and course descriptions. Employees must register for all training sessions in P.A.S.S. Training Updates! SAXVWI – Viewing & Working with Student Information is now available on line. The new course number is HO2209. SAXSIB - Managing Services Indicator training is an on line course. The new course number is HO2207. SAXGRT - Graduation Tracking is an on-line course. The new course number is HO2208. Please click the myUH Student Administration Training Information link above for detailed information on the registration process. Updated Security Process! The process for gaining access to the Campus Solutions module in AccessUH has changed. Users requiring access to Campus Solutions must now submit the Security Form electronically using the process outlined here. Notes: Please submit the Security Form after your training session is completed. The electronic Security Form is required after each training class is completed. Please report any issues with the electronic form to Campus Solutions Security at sasecrty@uh.edu. Related Links Login to myUH Human Resources Information Technology University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies