Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Brand Home Guidelines Guidelines Writing / Editing Web / Digital Photography / Video Logos Colors Fonts Social Media Stationery Brand Assets Brand Assets Marketing Email Templates Logos Powerpoint Templates Promise Overview ☰ return to top SMU BRAND PROMISE What Makes a Brand? Our brand positioning defines how we’d like to exist in the mind of our consumers. It is a logical, straightforward definition of the brand that allows for clarity and focus. Creating knowledge for courageous change For the bold, curious, and creative, SMU is the comprehensive research university whose enterprising spirit in a vibrant community empowers leaders to tackle grand challenges Driven, professional, inclusive, cosmopolitan, welcoming Think Big. Do Good. Read the full document here or watch the video here (requires an active SMU account) Go get creative! BRAND PROMISEGUIDELINES SMU Marketing & Communications Questions? Contact us: brand@smu.edu 6425 Boaz Lane Dallas, TX 75205214.768.2000 Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share