COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Physics, Master's Master'sPhysics All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Mathematics, Statistics and Physics The Master of Science (MS) in physics from Wichita State is a flexible program you can tailor to your interests and career goals. Students may combine their study and research in physics with astronomy, engineering, geology, computer science, mathematics and education. The program is ideal preparation for a Ph.D. and for STEM-related careers. Learn how Physics is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission to the program requires: Admission to the WSU Grad School Completion of a bachelor's degree Completion of 24 credit hours of undergraduate physics, including three credit hours of mechanics and three credit hours of electricity and magnetism For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program WSU group is part of a huge global science project Physics students have the opportunity to work on once-in-a-lifetime projects. Wichita State is playing a key role in the creation of the Long-Baseline Neutrino Facility in Illinois and the Deep Underground Neutrino Experiment in South Dakota, massive global science labs involving more than 1,000 scientists and engineers from around the world. It's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for the students working on the project alongside WSU professors. Together, they're working on particle physics computer simulations to support the international project. Curriculum The MS degree in physics requires the successful completion of a plan of study approved by the student's advisor and the department chairperson. Two options are available: a 36-credit-hour non-thesis program and a 30-credit-hour program that includes a research project written as a thesis. An oral defense of the thesis is required. Students are given a diagnostic entrance examination during their first semester. View the curriculum Careers A degree in physics from Wichita State opens doors to a variety of graduate programs and professional schools—leading to high-demand careers in fields such as university teaching, public and private scientific research, government, health care and more. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Mathematics (Master's) Applied Mathematics (Doctorate) Chemistry (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©