HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation HOME DIVISIONS Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Healthy Campus HEALTH TOPICS ADHD Alcohol and Other Drugs Antibiotics Body Image Building Social Connections Fitness Interpersonal Violence Mental Health Nutrition Social Media and Internet Use Sexual Health Sleep Spring Break Safety Stress Suicide Sustainibility Tobacco Well-being CONTACT ABOUT POLICIES & RECORDS Advance Directives Diversity Eligibility Health Fee Privacy Practice Records & Confidentiality Rights & Responsibilities Nourish Your Body Although living a nourished life encompasses a wide variety of health topics, maintaining proper nutrition is an important component of living a nourished life. Most medical practitioners and nutritionists agree that the best way to eat healthy is to maintain a well-balanced diet. Meatless Monday Choose to eat nutritious, meatless meals just one day a week. If you can’t go meatless for a whole day, choose to eat at least one meatless meal a week. Go Meatless for Your Health Reduce heart disease and stroke Limit cancer risk Fight diabetes Curb obesity Live longer Improve the nutritional quality of your diet Go Meatless for the Environment For every burger skipped: You can save enough WATER to DRINK for the next 3 YEARS. You can save enough WATER to SHOWER with for the next 2.5 MONTHS. You can save enough ENERGY to CHARGE your phone for 4.5 YEARS Clemson Dining Services makes it easy for you to choose to go meatless any day of the week. They offer nutritious vegetarian and vegan options and a wide variety of fruits and vegetables in their dining locations every day. Meatless Monday Recipes 5 Unexpected Foods to Satisfy Meat Cravings LEARN MORE meatlessmonday.com Healthy Fats We all know that nourishing our bodies is crucial to being healthy, but sometimes that is easier said than done. Making sure you eat enough healthy fats, though, doesn’t have to be a complicated situation. Two of the most important healthy fats are: Omega-3 fats, which may help lower cholesterol levels and support heart health; Monounsaturated fats, which improve blood cholesterol levels. Simply incorporate common omega-3 fats, such as fatty fish, walnuts, vegetable oils, flaxseed and eggs, and common monounsaturated fats, such as nuts, oils, avocado and peanut butter, into your diet in order to reap these great health benefits. Benefits of a Healthy Diet A balanced diet will give you the proper building blocks that your body needs to get through the day. The various benefits of a healthy diet include Feeling more energized and refreshed Being more focused Maintaining a healthy body weight Having an increased resistance to certain illnesses and diseases Simple and Quick Recipes Hummus Plate Ingredients: 2 tbsp hummus 2 celery stalks ½ of 12 inch whole wheat pita Wrap pita in aluminum foil, and warm in the oven for 5 minutes at 350OF. Rinse and slice celery into 2 inch pieces. Scoop out hummus onto plate, and arrange celery and warm pita around hummus. Spinach and Cheddar Frittata Ingredients: 2 eggs ½ cup spinach ¼ cup cheddar cheese Preheat oven to 350OF or use microwave. Place eggs in a bowl and whisk with a fork until smooth. Add spinach and cheddar; if desired, add salt and pepper. If using the oven, pour mixture into a greased baking dish, and bake for 7–10 minutes or until brown around the edges. If using the microwave, pour ingredients into a greased microwave-safe mug, and microwave at 1 minute intervals until firm. Chocolate Peanut Butter Apples Ingredients: 1 apple 1 tbsp peanut butte 2 tbsp dark chocolate Slice apple in half, and remove seeds and stem. Then, slice each half three more times. Spread peanut butter onto each apple slice and top with dark chocolate chips. LEARN MORE/RESOURCES Clemson Dining Services Clemson CampusWell by Student Health 101 Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics: eatright.org ChooseMyPlate.gov Nacamulli, M. (June 2016). How the food you eat affects your brain. Retrieved from URL Zaidan, G. (May 2013). What is fat? Retrieved from URL Lustig, R. (Mar. 2014). Sugar: Hiding in plain sight. Retrieved from URL Avena, N. (Jan. 2014). How sugar affects the brain. Retrieved from URL CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster