COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Registration Eligibility Section Menu Registrar Home Links for Faculty and Staff Links for Students Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) University Catalog Semester & Academic Calendars Schedule of Courses Residency Registration Final Exam Schedule Reactivation Transcripts Certifications Degree Works (degree audit) FAQ Diplomas Granting Student Record Access to Others (Proxy) Transfer to WSU Registration Registration (enrollment) is done online and begins each April for the following summer and fall semesters, and each November for the following spring semester. Are you eligible to enroll? People eligible to enroll in classes at WSU include: Newly admitted students for the current or next term who have signed up for orientation, completed the pre-advising worksheet at orientation (if needed), completed the placement exams (if needed), met with an advisor (if required), and have all holds released. Apply for Admission Sign up for Orientation Complete Placement Exams Students enrolled at WSU within the last two calendar years who have not graduated with their bachelor's degree. Exception: Students whose previous enrollment was only non-degree (college guest, high school guest, non-degree open admission or general non-degree) must apply through the appropriate Admissions Office for degree-bound admission: Undergraduate Admissions International Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions (316) 978-3085 (316) 978-3232 (316) 978-3095 Students who have reactivated their record for the current or next term due to: Having been previously enrolled at WSU longer than two years ago. Having just graduated with a bachelor’s degree and wanting to register in more classes. Students in a category on the Advising Required List who have met with their advisor and obtained the necessary permission to enroll. Permission can be obtained from your academic advisor or college office. International students obtain permission from the Office of International Education. Registration Timeline On-line registration for Summer and Fall generally begins on the first Monday of April and on-line registration for Spring generally starts the second Monday of November (check semester calendar for actual date). Registration opens at 7:00 a.m. on the first day and proceeds per the schedule below. Your classification is based on the total number of credit hours you have completed at the time of registration. Monday: Seniors (90+ earned credit hrs), Honors College Members, Student Athletes and Graduate students Tuesday: Juniors (60-89 earned credit hrs) Wednesday: Sophomores (30-59 earned credit hrs) Thursday: Freshman (0-29 earned credit hrs) Friday: Non-degree bound students Deadlines: See the semester calendar for important dates related to adding, changing and dropping classes. To Register for a Class You can search the schedule of courses first and write down the course number (CRN) of each course so enrolling is faster. Log in to myWSU Click the myClasses tab Locate the Registration Tools section Click the Student Registration (Banner 9) link Click the Register/Drop/View Schedule link Select the appropriate Term Enter Search Criteria Locate the class you want to register for and click Add Ensure the class is now listed in the Summary section and click Submit For more detailed steps, follow the Step-by-Step Guide to Registration. If you need help, contact OneStop 24 hours a day at 1-877-978-1787. Some classes offer a waitlist option. Being on a waitlist does NOT guarantee that you will get into that course. Click here for more information on waitlisting. Students must make payment arrangements at the time of enrollment. Account information is accessible online by logging into myWSU, clicking on the MyFinances tab, then clicking on Student Account Suite. The last day to make payment arrangements is listed in each semester calendar. Students are financially obligated to pay for any classes not dropped during the 100% refund period. Late Fees will be assessed after that date. The late payment fee is $100 and can be charged twice per semester. Payment Questions? (316) 978-3333 To Add or Drop a Class CLASSES CAN ONLY BE DROPPED DURING THE ADD/DROP PERIOD. AFTER THE 100% REFUND PERIOD HAS ENDED, ALL DROP AND ADD TRANSACTIONS MUST BE SUBMITTED AT THE SAME TIME IN THE REGISTRATION SYSTEM TO AVOID FINANCIAL PENALTY. Important Deadlines: See the semester calendar. Note: Classes that are less than a full semester have different deadlines which are proportional to the length of the class. Exception: In order to enroll in a class after the late-registration deadline, the instructor's signature is required on an add form and student must bring the completed form to the Registrar's Office, 102 Jardine Hall, and present their Shocker ID Card or other photo identification. Log in to myWSU Click the myClasses tab Locate the Registration Tools section Click the Student Registration (Banner 9) link Click the Register/Drop/View Schedule link Select the appropriate Term Enter Search Criteria Locate the Summary section and the class you want to drop Change the Action for the class to Web Drop and press Submit For more detailed steps, follow the Step-by-Step Guide to Registration. If you need help, contact OneStop 24 hours a day at 1-877-978-1787. Cancelled Classes The University reserves the right to cancel classes due to insufficient enrollment, or to make reassignment of instructors due to extraordinary circumstances. A full refund of enrollment fees will be automatically authorized for students who are enrolled in a class which has been cancelled. If you wish to use the refund (credit) from the cancelled class to pay the tuition for a replacement class you are “ADDING,” then you must process a “DROP” for the cancelled class at the same time you process an “ADD” for the replacement class. This must be done within the Add period for the term affected. Unless you are going to use the credit for another course, you do not have to “DROP” the cancelled course yourself. If you do nothing, we will drop the cancelled course from your schedule at the end of the second week of classes (or the proportional equivalent for shorter classes) and authorize a full refund (as appropriate). Refunds Partial or complete withdrawals require the student to drop each course via the online system at myWSU. Refunds will be issued by the Accounts Receivable Office according to the Refund Policy and based on the dates specified on the Accounts Receivable Important Dates webpage. Helpful Links Advising Requirements Admissions International Student Check-in Orientation Placement Exams Reactivation Waitlisting Schedule of Courses Semester Calendar Step-by-Step Guide to Registration Need help? Contact OneStop 24 hours a day 1-855-978-1787 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©