Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Lenten Reflections Home Connect Spirituality Reflections Lenten Reflections This Lenten season, members of the Boston College community will offer weekly reflections to help you prepare for Easter. Easter Sunday Reflection Happy Easter! Today we celebrate the Resurrection of Jesus Christ, while also finding strength and drawing inspiration from the faith Christ’s disciples had in Him. Today’s gospel follows Mary Magdalene and Peter as they each discover the empty tomb. They believed, but did not yet understand that Jesus had risen from the dead. View past reflections Palm Sunday Reflection Holy Week is here, and the drama of the gospel is coming to a head. Today’s reading follows Christ’s entrance into a Jerusalem eager to greet and glorify him. Heralded with palm reeds and cheers, He knew in the space of a week He’d be betrayed, reviled, and crucified in this same city. Still He said yes. Fifth Sunday of Lent Reflection As the days grow longer and brighter, and grass shoots break through the soil, today’s readings encourage us to seek renewal in our spiritual lives. “See, I am doing something new!” the Lord says through the Prophet Isaiah. “Now it springs forth, do you not perceive it?” These last few weeks of Lent, we are invited to embrace the newness and vitality of the living God. Fourth Sunday of Lent Reflection At the halfway point of our Lenten journey, Faith Payson ’22 considers the parable of the prodigal son from the older brother’s perspective. “Are you envious because I am generous?” the father asks his loyal, accomplished, and jealous elder son. We too must grapple with that question. During this season of fasting, we’re called to remove distractions in order to recognize the innumerable kindnesses the Lord provides us every day. Third Sunday of Lent Reflection We’re well into the Lenten journey, and Faith Payson ’22 encourages us in today’s reflection to rely on the Lord as well as our brothers and sisters for strength through this season of sacrifice and struggle. Often defined by absence, Lent gives us a chance to carve out distractions and focus on what matters most: the people around us, and our Emmanuel, God with us. Second Sunday of Lent Reflection This second Sunday of Lent, Faith Payson ’22 shares the difficulties many students wrestle with—from anxiety and distraction to sheer exhaustion—and how to use this Lenten season to recalibrate our priorities. When we make room in our busy lives for the Lord, we’re able to hear and heed what he wants to tell us, and so become “fully awake” as the apostles in today’s Gospel. First Sunday of Lent Reflection On this first Sunday of the Lent, School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Andrew R. Davis asks us to confront life as it comes to us: with a host of challenges, as well as blessings we often have to make an effort to notice and appreciate. Or, as theologian GK Chesterton put it, “We’re all in the same boat, and we’re all seasick.” No matter what we’re facing this week, though, the Lord’s promise to us remains the same—“I am with you always.” Ash Wednesday Reflection Ash Wednesday is here, and with it comes the first of the Boston College Alumni Association’s Lenten reflections. Today, with ash-marked brows reminding us of our mortality, we’re challenged by School of Theology and Ministry Associate Professor Andrew R. Davis to pause, look inward, and consider our own fragility. Pray It Forward During Lent, the Church in the 21st Century Center is launching an opportunity for BC Alumni, family, and friends to pray together each week. Wednesdays, 4:00-4:15pm (EST), on Zoom. Learn More Fath Payson ’22 Faith Payson ’22, who hails from northern Virginia, is a senior in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences. She is majoring in biology on the pre-medical track and minoring in interdisciplinary Catholic studies. For four years, Faith has been involved with Campus Ministry. She currently serves as treasurer for the Liturgy Arts Group and as co-president of Gratia Plena, BC’s Catholic Women’s Group. Faith has also helped organize Silent Eucharist Adoration on campus and has sung for Praise and Worship Adoration. Her passion for service work includes extensive participation on projects and in programs through the Campus School, 4Boston, APPA, PULSE, and the St. Joseph Project (a homeless outreach group). After graduation, Faith will travel to Washington, where she will begin a year of service with the Jesuit Volunteer Corps Northwest as a homeless outreach specialist with Yakima Neighborhood Health Services. Andrew R. Davis Andrew R. Davis is a native of Raleigh, North Carolina, where he first discovered his love of ancient languages in Mrs. Morton’s seventh-grade Latin class. He continued studying Classics at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (AB). After a year in the Jesuit Volunteer Corps (Oakland) and another year teaching English in Austria, Davis attended the Weston Jesuit School of Theology (MTS) and then pursued doctoral studies at the Johns Hopkins University (MA, PhD). Research for his dissertation included a year as Kress Fellow at the Albright Institute of Archaeological Research in Jerusalem. Before coming to Boston College, Davis taught for four years at the Seattle University School of Theology and Ministry. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok