Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Humanities Research Understanding Humanity Through Knowledge of Culture Our focus is on engaging diverse perspectives past and present, nurturing the arts and humanities locally and globally, and enriching public dialogue with interdisciplinary approaches. Research Profiles Misha Semenov . Misha Semenov, an architecture major who also completed certificates in urban studies, and translation and intercultural communication, wrote his senior thesis on housing projects designed to accommodate residents' expansions and modifications, analyzing how a more adaptable architecture can help fulfill larger social goals. Learn more Anne Cheng . Anne Cheng, a professor of English and African American studies, works primarily with 20th-century American literature and visual culture. Her undergraduate course "Food, Literature and the American Racial Diet" led students on a comparative racial-ethnic literary journey. Learn more Alexander Nehamas . Alexander Nehamas, the Edmund N. Carpenter II Class of 1943 Professor of Humanities and a professor of philosophy and comparative literature, has published and lectured widely on topics spanning classical philosophy, philosophy of art, literary theory, friendship, popular culture and television. Learn more Cameron Platt . For her senior thesis, Cameron Platt, an English major who also earned a certificate in theater, explored new ways of understanding female selfhood and familial succession in English literature, focusing on works by Jane Austen, William Shakespeare and Virginia Woolf. Learn more Simon Morrison . Simon Morrison, a professor of music, specializes in 20th-century music, particularly Russian, Soviet and French music; dance; cinema; and historically informed performance. His latest book, “Bolshoi Confidential,” presents a richly detailed account of the Bolshoi Ballet. Learn more Keeanga-Yamahtta Taylor . Keeanga-Yamahtta Taylor, an assistant professor of African American studies, examines race and public policy. Her book "From #BlackLivesMatter to Black Liberation" received the 2016 Lannan Foundation Freedom Award for an Especially Notable Book. Learn more School of Architecture The School of Architecture, Princeton's center of teaching and research in architectural design, urbanism, history and theory, and architectural technologies, provides students with a course of study that reflects on contemporary and emerging issues in architecture. Learn More Center for Digital Humanities The Center for Digital Humanities research team serves as a hub for expertise in digital methods, tools and best practices that allow scholars to analyze traditional and unconventional source bases to discover and share new insights. Learn More Humanities Research Our research centers and communities foster creative scholarship and intellectual collaboration. Here are a few of them. Humanities Council People and Cultures Across Borders Princeton-Mellon Initiative Society of Fellows in the Liberal Arts University Center for Human Values Research at Princeton Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice