Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? QA/QI Program New Investigator/Research Staff Onboarding | QA/QI Activities | HRPP/IRB Metrics | Protocol Record Keeping, Best Practice Reviews and Sessions | Assessment of CY2019 & CY2020 Activities Quality Assurance / Quality Improvement Program Brown’s Quality Assurance / Quality Improvement Program (QA/QI Program) is housed within the Office of Research Integrity and reports to the Senior Director of the Office of Research Integrity. The goal of this program is to promote a culture of integrity and excellence at Brown related to human subjects research, and to provide exceptional support and services to our research community in the form of education and outreach. The QA/QI Program objectives are two-fold: To support institutional regulatory compliance; and To educate and assist the Brown research community in the conduct of compliant research to promote research excellence and reduce administrative burden Associated with these overarching objectives, the QA/QI Administrator will facilitate the conduct of research at Brown by serving as a resource to researchers and the IRB. New Investigator/Research Staff Onboarding Session New to Brown Research? -New faculty? -New advisor? -New to Human Subjects Research? Schedule a "New Investigator/Research Staff Onboarding Session" with our QA/QI Administrator. This session provides a one-on-one, in-person (or via phone / Zoom) on-boarding meeting to assist in orienting new investigators and staff to the Brown HRPP/IRB website, forms, processes and policies. Those who have participated in these sessions and responded to a brief survey have offered very positive feedback, with 94% of respondents providing a rating of "very good" or "excellent" regarding the overall helpfulness of the session and 100% of respondents stating they would refer others to the session. To learn more about participating in and scheduling an onboarding session, please contact Christiana Provencal. QA/QI Activities Conduct random, on-site reviews to assess regulatory compliance and human subject safety for approved studies and to ensure research teams are maintaining compliance. Provide investigators with quality improvement recommendations to ensure that research is conducted in accordance with best practices. Conduct directed (for-cause) audits at the request of the IRB or authorized Institutional Official. Directed audits focus on areas of concern that have been identified or reported. Recommend actions to the IRB based on on-site observations. Investigate allegations and findings of non-compliance. Report potential serious or continuing non-compliance to the IRB and Institutional Official and propose corrective actions. Provide general guidance or study-specific services at study start-up or throughout the lifetime of a project. These services can include On-site Reviews, Study Consultations, In-services, External Audit Preparation, and Study Management Tools. Assess the performance of HRPP operations via metrics and use these data to design and implement targeted and broad-based quality improvement activities. Assess the performance of the IRB and its membership. HRPP/IRB Metrics Median Turnaround Times | Number of Active Protocols The QA/QI program tracks and publishes metrics as an important element of monitoring IRB and HRPP performance and assessing the impact of quality improvement activities. The initiative to create transparency and to engage the Brown research community in quality assurance and quality improvement activities aimed at increasing efficiency, facilitating compliance, and maintaining excellence in human subjects research, kicked off in earnest starting in fiscal year 2020. This portion of our website and our program will expand throughout the fiscal year and in the years to come. The QA/QI program will work collaboratively with the Brown Human Research Advisory Group (BhRAG) to identify targeted and broad-based quality improvement activities in furtherance of the aforementioned aims. Each activity will be announced on this page, with a pilot program description, implementation date, and time-period for evaluation. Evaluation of effectiveness and progress toward achieving stated goals will rely on internal quantitative data, as well as qualitative data gathered from the HRPP and the research community. Median Turnaround-Times (Submission to Approval) in Calendar Days Starting in November 2019, the QA/QI program began publishing monthly median turnaround-time data, benchmarked against Association for the Accreditation of Human Research Protection Programs, Inc. (AAHRPP) median data for academic institutions. The AAHRPP data represent the Brown HRPP's target turnaround times for each review type. Currently AAHRPP's published data reflect calendar year 2020, the latest data available. Click here for calendar year 2021 data. Median Turnaround Times - New Protocols - Calendar Year 2022 AAHRPP Benchmark Data 2020 January '22 February '22 March '22 April '22 New Full Board Protocols 45 N/A 28 N/A N/A New Expedited Protocols 20 25 18 35 26 New Exempt Protocols 11 14 14 18 17 * Through FY 2021 and part of FY 2022, ORI’s Quality Assurance efforts focused on working with investigators to close studies that were no longer active in preparation for transition to the new electronic system. This resulted in closure of 310 protocols thereby accounting for a decrease in the total number of active protocols between FY20 and FY21/FY22. Protocol Record Keeping, Best Practice Reviews and Sessions Best Practice Reviews and Session The QA/QI program offers Principal Investigators (PIs) and their study teams individualized support and guidance to assist in several aspects of protocol maintenance and compliance. This assistance is available to all PIs with a Brown University IRB or HRPP approved protocol. In part, it consists of a one to two-hour meeting which focuses on providing guidance and recommendations related to IRB file organization and maintenance. These sessions may be requested by the PI at any time and, and at the discretion of the PI, a session may be conducted directly with the study coordinator or lab manager. These sessions may also take place: - at the request of the IRB as a for-cause review, or -they may be conducted as part of routine QA/QI compliance activities at any time. Topics covered during a session include a review of compliance issues related to the maintenance of IRB approved study procedures and protocols, consistency with federal regulations and Brown IRB/HRPP policies and procedures. PIs will find this session particularly informative in preparation for external reviews or audits. Best Practice sessions may be scheduled to take place in-person at your research lab or via Zoom. Contact Christiana Provencal for additional information or to schedule a session Best Practice Review Checklist A Best Practice review will utilize a comprehensive checklist as a guide for confirming compliance and identifying areas or topics that may require additional attention or procedural detail. The checklist is also intended to be used independently by the research team at any time, as a self-assessment tool. PIs and study teams are encouraged to use the checklist periodically during the course of the study. Its use can assist the research team with ensuring protocol compliance, confirming study records maintenance, and providing documentation of internal study assessments, while also self-identifying areas for improvement or gaps in information. Upon completion of the checklist as a self-administered tool, the PI or PI designated study team member is encouraged to reach out to the QA/QI program if they would like additional feedback or recommendations, particularly if gaps or compliance oversights are identified. Assessments of QA/QI Activities Please click here for the CY2021 Assessment Report which describes two major QA/QI initiatives that were launched in CY20. These initiatives included a quality improvement project aimed to streamline the IRB Application intake process, and a second project, (described in two parts) intended to clean existing protocol data and improve compliance prior to migrating the human subjects research program into a new electronic system in 2021. The CY2020 Assessment Report can be found here as well. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) ORI staff directory Research Misconduct Policy Authorship Policy IRB IACUC Export Control Conflict of Interest QA/QI Program DURC ESCRO IBC Research Data Management Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 te[email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat