Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print At Hooding, a ritual celebration of extraordinary scholarly accomplishment Denise Valenti, Office of Communications May 24, 2022, 12:57 p.m. Amaney Jamal (left), dean of the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs, hoods her advisee, Daniel Tavana (center), a newly minted Ph.D. in politics, at the 2022 Hooding and Recognition Ceremony. Looking on is Sandra Bermann, chief marshal for the University Convocations and the Cotsen Professor in the Humanities and professor of comparative literature. Photo by Maddy Pryor, Office of Communications Surrounded by family and friends on a sunny and brilliant day on Cannon Green, with Nassau Hall’s abundant ivy as a backdrop, recent Ph.D. and master’s degree recipients were honored for completing their academic journeys at Princeton at the 2022 Hooding and Recognition Ceremony. Juliane Preimesberger (left), who received her doctorate in mechanical and aerospace engineering, shares a moment before the ceremony with Wenxuan Zhang (center) and Thao Nguyen (right), who earned doctorates in chemical and biological engineering. Photo by Nicole Guglielmo “This ceremony is a valuable opportunity for all of us — your families, friends, teachers, mentors and colleagues — to recognize the dedication, effort and intellect that you have brought to your work here,” President Christopher L. Eisgruber told the graduates. “Your graduate degree is a testament to your talent and commitment as well as a mark of true excellence in scholarship and research. Congratulations on this tremendous achievement!” Cole Crittenden, acting dean and deputy dean of the Graduate School, began the ceremony by welcoming the graduates and their friends and families, and thanking faculty and staff for their contributions to the day’s events. “Our purpose today is to recognize the extraordinary efforts, dedication and accomplishments of our graduates, to congratulate them for completing master’s and doctoral programs, and to celebrate their transitions into a broad range of careers in which they will make a tremendous contribution over the coming years,” Crittenden said. The ceremony was the last with Crittenden presiding. He has served as deputy dean of the Graduate School for 10 years and as acting dean for the past two years. He will take on the role of vice provost for academic affairs in the Office of the Provost on July 1, when Rodney Priestley, the Pomeroy and Betty Perry Smith Professor of Chemical and Biological Engineering and vice dean for innovation, begins his tenure as the Graduate School’s dean. At the ceremony, 178 master’s degree recipients were recognized by name as they walked across the stage. The 234 Ph.D. recipients in attendance were hooded either by faculty advisers or by Sandra Bermann, chief marshal for the University Convocations and the Cotsen Professor in the Humanities and professor of comparative literature. One-hundred-and-fifteen faculty members were in attendance. Cole Crittenden Photo by Maddy Pryor, Office of Communications The colorful gowns and hoods worn as part of traditional academic regalia trace their history to medieval Europe, where heavy woolen robes were necessities in the cold halls of universities. Hoods embody an important symbolism and distinguish the wearer both by rank and academic discipline. Each hood is bordered by a velvet band in the color assigned to the academic discipline in which the degree is granted, and the lining bears the degree-granting university’s own colors — at Princeton, orange with a black chevron. “Your hood signifies the knowledge you have gained and the skills you have developed, as well as the fact that through your research you have contributed something genuinely new to an existing body of knowledge,” Crittenden said. Crittenden also commented on the pleasantness of the weather — a relief for those wearing the heavy robes through extreme heat in the preceding days of Commencement activities. He expressed delight that “the weather gods have smiled upon us today.” Christopher L. Eisgruber Photo by Nicole Guglielmo Graduates described being hooded by their adviser as an opportunity to honor their years of mentorship, a time during which a faculty member guides an aspiring scholar on their journey to becoming a future colleague. Elizabeth Durham, who earned a Ph.D. in anthropology, said her adviser João Biehl, the Susan Dod Brown Professor of Anthropology and director of the Brazil LAB, has been “exceptionally generous and thoughtful” from the start. Even before he became her adviser formally, he helped her to attend a forum on Ebola that was held in Dublin, obtaining for her an invitation and a plane ticket. “I think anthropologists are particularly drawn to rituals and moments of transformation, which the Hooding ceremony certainly is,” Durham said. “After my Ph.D. defense in early May, people often asked me how it felt to be done; my answer was that I didn't feel done, not yet, not until the pomp and circumstance of being hooded and receiving my degree. It's particularly meaningful to me that I'll be hooded by someone who has watched and guided my own academic transformation over the course of seven years — that I'll step on the stage as João's student and step off as his colleague.” Biehl praised Durham’s dissertation examining aspects of health and wellness in Cameroon, which he said, “offers a sharp and sensitive social and affective cartography of the ways patients and families navigate competing frameworks of wellness in clinical, political and religious arenas, stressing the vital importance of temporality to wellbeing.” João Biehl (facing forward), the Susan Dod Brown Professor of Anthropology and director of the Brazil LAB, embraces his advisee, Elizabeth Durham, who earned a Ph.D. in anthropology. Durham said Biehl was “exceptionally generous and thoughtful” as her dissertation adviser. Photo by Maddy Pryor, Office of Communications “In Elizabeth’s hooding, we celebrate the generativity of comprehensive historical and people-centered research efforts and are humbled by what a love of humanity and a commitment to making a difference can bring into existence,” he said. Eddie Glaude Jr., the James S. McDonnell Distinguished University Professor, professor and chair of the Department of African American Studies, characterized the relationship between adviser and advisee as “intimate and intense — a lifelong relationship that evolves.” “The beauty of it all is that you get to watch them grow into seasoned scholars who produce their own students,” he said. Glaude hooded his advisee, Nyle Fort, at the ceremony. “He is a gifted thinker who is passionately committed to a more just world,” Glaude said. “I loved that he came to Princeton right out the struggles in Ferguson. He wanted to think more carefully about what he was doing in his activism. He did it. And his dissertation will help others do the same.” Amaney Jamal, dean of the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA), who hooded several students including her advisee, Daniel Tavana, said being a doctoral adviser and mentor is one of her favorite parts of working in academia. “It’s extremely rewarding, watching this individual you’ve guided and whose success you’re invested in, attain such an important milestone,” she said. “And as a member of the University, it’s a role I’m very proud of performing on behalf of this institution.” Nyle Fort (left) and his dissertation adviser, Eddie Glaude Jr., the James S. McDonnell Distinguished University Professor, professor and chair of the Department of African American Studies, line up together in the lead up to the Hooding ceremony. Photo by Nicole Guglielmo The ceremony gave all of the advanced degree graduates an opportunity to reflect upon their experience. Jordan Stoltzfus, a first-generation college student who received his master’s of public affairs from SPIA, started his academic journey at Columbus State Community College in 2014, earning an associate’s degree, and transferred to Ohio State University College of Arts and Sciences, where he completed his bachelor’s. He came to Princeton in 2020. “Both of my parents had an 8th grade education, basically,” Stolzfus said. “So just thinking about where I’ve come from, and the experiences I’ve had at Princeton is really humbling. I’m just totally grateful to the school and to my peers.” Advanced-degree recipients are being awarded their degrees at Princeton’s 275th Commencement on Tuesday, May 24. The 655 graduate degrees granted during the academic year were: Nayana Prasad Nagendra (second from right), celebrates her hooding with her adviser, David August (far right), professor of computer science, and her daughters, Isha, 10, and Darsha, 3. Photo by Maddy Pryor, Office of Communications The graduate figures include: 447 Doctor of Philosophy 62 Master of Engineering 57 Master in Public Affairs 26 Master of Architecture 25 Master in Public Policy 21 Master in Finance 15 Master of Science in Engineering 1 Master of Arts in Near Eastern Studies 1 Master of Science The 2022 recipients of the Graduate Mentoring Awards were honored during the Hooding ceremony. Presented by the McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning, the awards annually recognize faculty members for their exceptional work as mentors to graduate students at Princeton. This year’s recipients Anna Arabindan-Kesson, assistant professor of art and archaeology and African American studies; Mark Brynildsen, associate professor of chemical and biological engineering; Curtis Callan, the James S. McDonnell Distinguished University Professor of Physics; and Natasha Wheatley, assistant professor of history. In his remarks, Eisgruber reminded the graduates of their promise as leaders as they join the ranks of Princeton graduate alumni who have distinguished themselves. “Many have pursued careers that exemplify the power of disciplinary knowledge and rigorous training to change the world for the better,” Eisgruber said.“They do so with consistent excellence and ever-increasing diversity: diversity in the backgrounds from which they come, diversity in the topics they have studied, and diversity in the futures that they pursue.” He added: “Your membership in this alumni community is at once an accomplishment and a call to action. I know that each of you will find your own path of service to the nation and to humanity.” The Hooding and Recognition Ceremony is available for viewing online. End-of-the-year activities began with the Baccalaureate service on Sunday, May 22, and Class Day on May 23. Graduation activities conclude with Commencement on Tuesday, May 24. Friends and family of Princeton’s most recent Ph.D. and master’s degree recipients filled Cannon Green for the 2022 Hooding and Recognition Ceremony. Princeton awarded 655 graduate degrees granted during the academic year. Photo by Nicole Guglielmo Commencement 2022 View All News Connect with #Princeton22 Instagram Facebook Twitter GIPHY YouTube LinkedIn 2022 Commencement website After Princeton graduation, ROTC students are commissioned as U.S. Army and Marine Corps officers University News: Read more ‘The value of persistence’: Princeton Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement University News: Read more 2022 Commencement Salutatio by Frances Mangina (Latin and English) University News: Read more 2022 Valedictory remarks by Natalia Orlovsky University News: Read more Class of 2022 Commencement Address by President Eisgruber — 'The Value of Persistence' University News: Read more Four faculty members recognized for outstanding teaching Award: Read more Princeton awards five honorary degrees Award: Read more Four outstanding N.J. secondary school teachers honored at Princeton Commencement Award: Read more Dr. Fauci to Princeton seniors on Class Day: ‘It is our collective responsibility not to shrug our shoulders’ or to accept ‘the normalization of untruths’ University News: Read more Students honored for leadership and service at 2022 Class Day Award: Read more Princeton University Class of 2022 Class Day remarks by Dr. Anthony S. Fauci University News: Read more Baccalaurate speaker Wendy Kopp ’89: The path to happiness is to align our lives with our values University News: Read more 2022 Princeton Baccalaureate address by Wendy Kopp University News: Read more Reunited: Princeton alumni return to campus for the first in-person Reunions since the start of the pandemic University News: Read more Phi Beta Kappa chapter honors Alexander Davis, Casey Lew-Williams with teaching awards Award: Read more Watch: Princeton's Class of 2022 Commencement ceremony Tuesday, May 24 University News: Read more Alumni returning for Reunions 2022 this Thursday through Sunday Campus Life: Read more Graduate students honored for excellence in teaching Award: Read more Four faculty members honored for excellence in mentoring graduate students Award: Read more Commencement events for Class of 2022 and on-campus Commencement details for Class of 2020 University News: Read more Natalia Orlovsky named Princeton valedictorian, Frances Mangina selected as salutatorian Award: Read more Dr. Anthony Fauci will speak at Princeton’s 2022 Class Day University News: Read more Teach For All co-founder and CEO Wendy Kopp named Baccalaureate speaker University News: Read more Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice