Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Computer Engineering, BSCpE Develop Complex and Innovative Technologies Through the Evolving Field of Engineering Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Electrical & Computer Engr 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Integrate Hardware and Software Engineering to Produce Efficient Systems As a computer engineering major, you’ll explore ways to improve the underlying digital hardware, computing networks, and production software systems that impact our everyday lives. Your work will help advance our society, covering areas such as computer systems design, mobile and embedded computing devices, sensor networks, reconfigurable logic, software engineering and machine intelligence applications. Computer engineering coursework focuses on the tradeoff of execution throughput compared to hardware/software/energy costs of all types of computers from portable embedded devices and miniature sensor nodes, up through supercomputers. You’ll learn from renowned faculty that have been engaged in cutting-edge research and have an opportunity to pursue undergraduate research in your area of interest with these faculty. Additionally, courses provide hands-on learning where you can apply what you’ve learned to real-world situations. Upon graduating, you’ll be ready to seek employment from top industry employers in roles including computer engineer, software engineer, database/systems administrator, computer specialist, among others. Comprehensive Track Cover fundamental computer engineering concepts. You’ll be exposed to key areas in the discipline, including embedded processing, operating systems, object oriented programming, computer networks, FPGA Design, computer organization and architecture, etc. The technical electives can be selected to provide more depth in one or more areas of computer engineering. Graduates find employment in companies such as Lockheed-Martin, Siemens, Microsoft, Google, Intel, Apple, TI, as well as many other regional, national, or international companies. Also, opportunities exist for employment in state and federal government agencies. Digital VLSI Circuits Track Choose from a wide range of technical elective courses such as embedded systems and hardware-software co-design, microarchitecture and memory design for performance, VLSI testing and fault tolerant computing, design of ultra-low power circuits and systems and the mechanisms for computing systems, and data acquisition. You’ll graduate with more depth of knowledge in the area of VLSI systems and digital circuit design. After graduation, pursue a graduate degree or find employment in companies such as Lockheed-Martin, Intel, TI, Apple, as well as many other regional, national or international companies. Also, opportunities exist for employment in state and federal government agencies. Highlights UCF is ranked No. 79 in Best Undergraduate Engineering Programs by U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report ranks UCF as the No. 71 Best Engineering School in the nation. The job outlook for computer engineering grads is expected to grow 14% over the next decade. The average annual salary of computer engineering grads is $101,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Engineering Analysis and Computation Explore engineering analysis and computation with structured constructs. Subscripted variables, functions, input/output. Applications in embedded systems and examples in numerical methods. Computer Science I & II Learn problem solving techniques, order analysis and notation, abstract data types and recursion. The second course covers algorithm design and analysis for tree, list, set and graph data models; algorithmic strategies and applications, and algorithmic complexity analysis; sorting and searching; practical applications. Senior Design I & II Apply engineering design to realistic and meaningful problems. Constraints such as economic factors, safety, reliability, aesthetics, ethics, social impact and engineering organizations are considered. In the second course, you’ll execute an electrical and computer engineering project. This includes complete project design review, construction, testing and demonstration. Emphasis on design, prototyping, cost, functionality, presentation, team effort and final report. Computer Engineering Skills You’ll Learn Gain a solid background in mathematics, physical sciences, electrical and computer engineering. Understand how to identify, formulate and solve complex engineering problems. Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental and economic factors. Function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks and meet objectives. Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions. Career Opportunities Computer Engineer Software Engineer Software Developer or Programmer Computer and Information Systems Analyst Database/Systems Administrator Computer Specialist Computer Hardware Engineer College of Engineering and Computer Science News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Colleges & Campus 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting… Colleges & Campus Elite Students Coming to UCF for North America Collegiate Programming Contest UCF will host and compete against 49 other top student programming teams — including Stanford, MIT, Harvard, Caltech, UCBerkeley and Georgia Tech. Research Aerodynamics of Perching Birds Could Inform Aircraft Design A team of UCF researchers have investigated the mystery behind different bird perching maneuvers to better understand the aerodynamic forces of landing an aircraft. Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Bachelors Computer Engineering (BSCpE) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida