By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About Leadership Board of Trustees Representatives In this Section Undergraduate Student Representative Graduate Student Representative Faculty Representative Academic Dean Representative Staff Representative Undergraduate Student Representative Representatives Academic Dean, faculty, staff and student representatives to Syracuse University's Board of Trustees provide an important link to the University's faculty and student bodies. Academic Dean Representative Craig Boise Boise came to Syracuse University in 2016 as dean of the College of Law and professor of law, bringing extensive experience in academic leadership and a passion for innovation in legal education. In his years as dean here and at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall School of Law, he established one of the nation’s two largest hybrid online J.D. programs. Read more about Craig Boise Faculty Representative Photo by Peter Bennetts Lori Brown Brown is an architect, professor of architecture (since 2001) and director of diversity, equity, and inclusion in the School of Architecture. Prior to teaching, Brown worked as an architect in New York City and remains focused on the relationship between architecture and social justice issues, especially gender and its impact on spacial relationships. Read more about Lori Brown Staff Representative Maithreyee (Mai) Dubé Dubé leads the enrollment team at the Institute for Veterans and Military Families, collaborating with program managers and field partners in assessing the entrepreneurial, education and training needs of veterans and military family members to identify the best programs to help them transition from service to civilian life. Read more about Mai Dubé Graduate Student Representative Yousr Dhaouadi Dhaoudi is a fifth-year Ph.D. chemical engineering candidate in the Department of Biomedical and Chemical Engineering. She is serving her second term as the Graduate Student Organization (GSO) president. Previously she served as GSO comptroller and financial secretary. Read more about Yousr Dhaouadi Law Student Representative Alexis Telga Telga is a third-year law student in the College of Law. She is a student-attorney in the transactional law clinic and a legal communications and research teaching assistant for Adjunct Professor Kristen Walker. She is also the administrative editor for the Journal of International Law and Commerce. Read more about Alexis Telga Undergraduate Student Representatives David Bruen Bruen is studying political science and policy studies in the College of Arts and Sciences and the Maxwell School and is serving a second term as president of the Student Association. Bruen was previously speaker of the assembly as well as Board of Elections Chair for the Student Association. Read more about David Bruen Dylan Blaine France France is a junior majoring in finance in the Whitman School and minoring in global political economy in the Maxwell School. She is a Whitman Leadership Scholar and a member of the Renee Crown Honors Program. France was recently named a junior analyst in the Orange Value Fund. She is a finance board member with the Syracuse Student Association and a Whitman representative in Assembly. Read more about Dylan Blaine France Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy