Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Meadows School of the Arts Visit Meadows School of the Arts Visit Meadows School of the Arts SMU Academic Calendar Meadows Event Calendar Music Group Visits Ready to learn more about Meadows School of the Arts? Get your questions answered and see where you will study, research, rehearse, perform, and collaborate as a Meadows student! In-person Visit For in-person visits, we recommend you sign up for the SMU Daily Visit. The SMU Daily Visit allows guests to select our Meadows Information Session & Tour, an SMU Admission Information Session, an SMU Campus Tour, a session from one of the other academic schools at SMU, or any combination thereof. Meadows offers in-person info sessions and tours on most weekdays that the university is open: In-person, on-campus Fall 2021: MWF at 1 pm; T-Th at 12 noon CST Register here for SMU Daily Visit including Meadows Info Session & Tour Virtual Visit Meadows also offers a virtual option that includes an information session and guided virtual tour. Virtual via Zoom, Fall 2021: Thursdays at 4 pm CST Register here for a Virtual Meadows Visits Recorded Information Session While you await your visit day, check out our 7-minute recorded Meadows info session below with Director of Meadows Undergraduate Admission Ryan Cole. You can also see Meadows 360-degree views of our performing venues, studio spaces and classrooms. We can’t wait to tell you more! Class Observations If you are a high school junior or senior, or a transfer student, you can request to observe a Meadows class. Be sure to submit your request at least two weeks prior to the date you wish to visit, and we will get back with you soon with more details. Meadows Admission Events and Fairs Get all the details about Meadows curriculum, outstanding resources, internships, opportunities and more during our virtual, major-specific Meadows Close-Up events in September; the in-person, on-campus Meadows Spotlight day in October; and additional information events and fairs for high school and transfer students interested in performing, visual, and communication arts. Close-Up Series – September 2021 Prospective students from all over the U.S. and abroad gather online via Zoom to talk with faculty and current students about Meadows majors. This is a great opportunity to hear from the faculty and students about the major of your choice! Your questions are welcome and encouraged. Register for any of our close-ups here. Meadows Spotlight, Monday, October 18, 2021, 8am-1pm CT High school juniors, seniors and transfer students to join us on campus for an in-depth look at the SMU Meadows School of the Arts! Hear from current students, sit in on a class, chat with faculty, learn about the admission process and more! Guests also have the opportunity to learn more about SMU in general and take a tour of the campus in the afternoon. Register today! College Fairs at SMU and across the country Browse the best colleges that specialize in performing, visual, and communication arts and talk with school reps. SMU Meadows will be at a select number of college fairs. Be sure to check back soon for additional events! Art: National Portfolio Day, Sunday, Sept. 19, 2021, 1:30-5:30pm Central Time Meadows hosts an in-person National Portfolio Day at the Hughes-Trigg Student Center on the SMU campus! Visit with Meadows and with 25 other colleges from across the U.S. Meadows will also participate in several virtual portfolio reviews. Learn more about the event and how to register Music Roundtable Fairs Sunday, Sept. 26, 2021, 4-6pm Eastern Time Tuesday, Oct. 19, 2021, 9-11am Eastern Time Wednesday, Nov. 10, 2021, 8-10pm Eastern Time Virtual college fair featuring many different performing arts college programs. More information on the events here. Oberlin College Fair, Monday, Oct. 11, 2021 Join Meadows and several other arts schools from across the country for a college fair at Oberlin Conservatory Registration information here. NACAC Arts Fair, Tuesday, Nov. 2, 2021 Go to https://www.nacacnet.org/ to register. More events: SMU overall The University presents SMU Mustang Days, Springfest, Academic Spotlights and other events to equip prospective students and their families with everything they want to know about applications, scholarships, residential life, student clubs and associations and more. See all the SMU admission events here! Visiting SMU and Dallas Getting to SMU, where to park, where to stay SMU stats and 3-minute video on why students choose SMU Questions? Contact us, we’re always happy to talk with you about SMU Meadows School of the Arts! meadowsadmission@smu.edu / 214-768-3217 The Meadows Office of Admission and Financial Aid is available Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Central Standard Time. If you get our voicemail and let us know how we can help you. Thanks, and we look forward to talking with you! Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search