Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Liturgical and Music Ministries Home Liturgy & Sacraments Liturgical and Music Ministries Liturgy & Sacraments Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Liturgy at Boston College is an experience of true community. Our Masses are opportunities to come together as one and recognize the God that is with us and within us. The liturgies are enhanced by the talents and gifts of many people—including the students who welcome us, who lead us in song, and who join us in prayer. We invite all students to participate and hope you will find a home here with us. Contact Billy Kavula for more information about how to get involved. LAG (Music Ministry) Liturgical Ministries The Liturgy Arts Group serves the Boston College community by sharing its gift of music at Sunday liturgies and special events on campus. With song and instruments, LAG is committed to enlivening and enriching the University’s worship experience. LAG welcomes all students with a love for creating music. If you are a singer, instrumentalist, handbell ringer, or visual artist, we invite you to share your special gift with the community. The Liturgy Arts Group meets weekly for prayer and to practice its music for the upcoming Sunday liturgy and for special celebrations. Contact Meyer Chambers with questions. Sign up for LAG Sign up for the LAG Retreat Sign up for BC Bells LAG Activities Rehearsals Practices are generally Wednesdays from 4-6 p.m. and Sundays at 7 p.m. (for 8 p.m. liturgies). Weekly Campus Ministry Masses Special Masses University Memorial Mass Veteran's Day Mass Midyear Baccalaureate Mass Alumni Laetare Sunday Mass University Advent/Christmas Mass at St. Ignatius University/St. Ignatius Parish Confirmation RCIA Mass Spring Baccalaureate Mass in Conte Forum Healing Masses Service Trip Commissioning Masses (Arrupe, Appa) Prayer Services Thanksgiving Interfaith Service Dr. Martin Luther King Worship Service Service of Remembrance Group Events LAG Retreat Holiday Progressive Dinner Christmas Caroling Italian Home for Children Christmas Gift Drive LAG Dinner in the City Visit to MCI Framingham Boston College Arts Festival: Mass and Concert LAG Banquet LAG Kickball The Winter Trip Freshmen E-Board Dinner Local Parish Visit Executive Board 2021-2022 President: Mary Kenny '22 Vice President/Events Coordinator: Teagan Hosbein '22 Secretary: Sarah Ryan '23 Treasurer: Faith Payson '22 Social Media Liason: Jackie Aruffo '22 St. Ignatius Representative: Heather Lee '23 St. Joseph Representative: Ashley Antico '22 Trinity Representative: Elizabeth Donahue '23 BC Bells Representative: Heather Lee '23 Weekly student liturgies at Boston College are celebrated in chapels and worship spaces in each of the three residential areas of campus: Trinity Chapel on Newton Campus, St. Joe’s Chapel on upper campus, and St. Ignatius Church and the Heights Room on the lower campus. Our student liturgies are enhanced by the talents and gifts of many people, and we encourage you to share your gifts with our worshipping communities in any of the following ways: Eucharistic Ministers Distribute the Body and Blood of Christ to the faithful, participating in the ministry of the table of God. Eucharistic Ministers must be fully initiated Catholics. Lectors Proclaim the true and saving word of God through the scriptures, and lead the assembly in the prayers of intercession. Lectors must be members of the Christian faith. Sacristans Assist with the preparation of the liturgy. These students also have to opportunity to occasionally serve at baptisms, weddings, etc. Liturgical Coordinators Schedule the Eucharistic Ministers and Lectors for each liturgy, as well as assigning the Eucharistic Ministers to their stations for the liturgy and finding substitutes as needed. Greeters/Ministers of Hospitality Help to create a welcoming environment at Mass. Greeters extend a welcome and sense of hospitality by greeting students as they arrive, distributing mass programs, coordinating the collection, and setting up post-Mass socials. How to Get Involved Students interested in serving as ministers at BC (with the exception of music ministers, see above) should complete the Liturgical Ministries application. You will then be contacted with more information about the process. Training is required to participate in some ministries. You can also speak to any Campus Minister after Mass for further information. Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry McElroy 233 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3475 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College