Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives International Programs Academics International Programs More in this Section Explore International Programs: Pre-Departure Requirements for International Travel International Semester and Dual Degree Programs Visiting Scholars Program U.S. Business Law Academy International Postgraduate Clerkships Global Law and Business Seminar International Study FAQs Columbia Law School is at the center of international scholarship and professional activity. The Law School's faculty, centers, and institutes extend their impact beyond campus and into the international community. Our international programs offer unparalleled benefits to members of the Columbia Law community and visitors. Learn more below. Related Links Make an Advising Appointment Inventory of International Opportunities International Study Programs Presentation International Opportunities for Columbia Law Students Columbia students have access to globally-oriented opportunities in New York City and around the world and graduate prepared for cross-border careers spanning the public, private, and non-profit sectors. Learn more: International Semester and Dual Degree Programs International Post-Graduate Clerkships Inventory of International Opportunities International Scholarship and Research Columbia Law’s faculty are at the forefront of scholarship and policy on issues around global human rights advocacy, international corporate and antitrust law, economic migration, and global governance. Learn more: International and Comparative Law Faculty Visiting Scholars Program International Summer and Non-Degree Programs Students and practitioners from around the world can enhance their knowledge and skills, and receive an official certificate of participation, through short-term international non-degree programs offered both in-person and online. Learn more: U.S. Business Law Academy Global Law and Business Seminar Contact the Office of International Programs The Office of International Programs is located on the sixth floor of William and June Warren Hall. We encourage you to speak with us directly or to meet with us to answer your questions. Phone: +1 212-854-8170 Email: [email protected] Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.