Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'M': MA in School Leadership The Dual-Track MA in School Leadership offers preparation for emerging school leaders in both public and independent school settings. Mail Services Baylor University Mail Services processes and distributes mail for departments, faculty and students residing on campus. Majors and Minors Listing of undergraduate majors and minors. Management The Management faculty, comprised of a group of diverse, experienced, and highly knowledgeable professionals, is committed to developing high caliber, quality students who possess great potential for professional success. Marketing and Communications Guided by the mission of Baylor University and a commitment to share the stories of Baylor and its people, the Division of Marketing and Communications provides leadership, builds partnership, offers strategic direction and advances priorities that extend and support the mission of Baylor University. Marketing, Department of Students majoring in Marketing receive a Bachelor of Business Administration with a concentration in Marketing. Students who choose to major in Marketing must take 18 hours in Marketing beyond the Business Core Requirements--three required courses and three electives. Martin Museum of Art The Martin Museum of Art offers quality exhibitions of fine art to the students, faculty, and staff of Baylor University and to the Waco and Central Texas communities. Mathematics, Department of The home page for the department of Mathematics. Mayborn Museum The Mayborn Museum Complex brings together, in one location the resources of hands-on discovery rooms and interactive natural science and cultural history galleries, including outdoor exhibits. This usually rich combination provides a wide spectrum of engaging learning opportunities for learners and visitors of all ages. MBA Career Services Graduate Programs career opportunities for students. McBride Center for International Business The Hankamer School of Business is preparing students for positions of leadership in a dynamic environment of global production, exchange, information, and finance. For this purpose, we offer an assortment of international business courses and degree offerings, and encourage our students to participate in study-abroad programs, foreign language instruction, campus lectures, international student organizations, and other extracurricular activities (such as Baylor’s award-winning Model U.N. program). McLane Stadium Bricks Locator Over 7,000 bricks line the McLane Stadium south plaza and walkway to McLane Stadium. This site will help you locate your special brick. McMullen-Connally Faculty Center Up to date menus for the faculty dining center. McMullen-Connally Family Collection The McMullen-Connally Family Collection consists of 227 watercolors by over sixty different artists and numerous personal artifacts. The watercolors represent a specific movement known as the California School of Watercolor that flourished in the 1930s and 1940s. McNair Research Conference This event is open to all academic disciplines and offers a platform for undergraduate students to share their research and participate in professional development opportunities with a special focus placed on how to successfully navigate a path to a Ph.D. program after completing undergraduate studies. McNair Scholars Program A federally funded program with the goal of increasing the number of students in doctoral degree programs who are low-income and first-generation undergraduates, or students who come from groups underrepresented in graduate education. Media and Public Relations The Media and Public Relations office of the Marketing and Communications division serves as a primary contact point for media looking for information about the University. Media and Public Relations staff can assist reporters in locating experts for stories, and they issue news releases daily on Baylor events and announcements. Medical Humanities Medical Humanities is intended primarily for undergraduate students entering health care professions. Memorial Residence Hall Memorial Hall is a tightly-knit, academically focused community of women involved in the Honors Residential College at Baylor. Middle East Studies Program The Middle East is the cradle of both Western civilization and of three major religious traditions: Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. Military Studies Military Studies (MILS) is an interdisciplinary program with the primary focus of educating students about military practices and institutions throughout history and around the world to prepare them for worldwide leadership and service. Mission of the University The mission of Baylor University is to educate men and women for worldwide leadership and service by integrating academic excellence and Christian commitment within a caring community. Model United Nations Model United nations Modern Languages & Cultures The study of foreign language, literature, and culture gives students direct access to different parts of the world and at the same time provides them with novel perspectives from which to view American life. Moody and Jones Libraries The Central Libraries are composed of Moody Memorial Library (opened 1968) and Jesse H. Jones Library (opened 1992). These two libraries, connected with a corridor on first and second floors, together serve as the main library facility on campus. Move2BU The definitive site for finding information about moving into a residence hall, living & learning center, or apartment operated by Baylor University's Campus Living & Learning. Multicultural Affairs Baylor University recognizes the changing demographics of our nation and how those changes will directly affect our University community. Therefore, Baylor is committed to a policy of inclusiveness, understanding and acceptance of all regardless of race or ethnicity. Consistent with the statement, Baylor will challenge and educate all members of the University community through cultural awareness programs and by precept and example. Multicultural Greek Council The Multicultural Greek Council was created for the purpose of encouraging community service and philanthropy, support of high academic standards, the development of campus and community leaders, and to educate all Baylor students on issues of diversity. At this time the council is composed of six sororities and three fraternities. Museum Studies The Department of Museum Studies at Baylor University prepares students for successful museum careers, emphasizing administration, curatorship, collections management, exhibits, and education, through guided instruction, research, and practical application. Music, School of Welcome to the Baylor School of Music, a place where future professionals are nourished and trained. It is a place for serious musicians who are resolute about pursuing new frontiers and who are not afraid to challenge musical conventions. Faculty/Staff homepages starting with 'M': Minard,Matthew Baylor Faculty and Staff: Update your homepage address or learn more about your homepage and privacy settings. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678