Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Health & Wellness Overview Health Services Mental Health and Wellness Services Disability Services Child Care Overview Taking Care of Your Mind and Body At Princeton, we believe in taking care of your whole self and have dedicated resources to sustaining and enhancing your physical, psychological and emotional health. Health Services Photo by Nick Donnoli, Office of Communications University Health Services is the primary health care provider for undergraduate and graduate students, their dependents, and faculty and staff. Our accredited team of doctors, nurses and practitioners offers a comprehensive range of medical services as well as health education, outreach and wellness programs. Learn More Mental Health and Wellness Services Photo by Nick Barberio, Office of Communications Psychologists, clinical social workers and psychiatrists are available to students 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. They're available for urgent care as well as counseling, psychiatric consultations, referrals, mind-body programs such as meditation, and more. Counseling and Psychological Services provide these services at no cost to currently enrolled Princeton students and their eligible dependents. Learn More Disability Services Princeton is committed to providing equal access and accommodations to all individuals. The Office of Disability Services offers a range of services and facilitates reasonable accommodations to support undergraduate and graduate students with disabilities. They also serve as the primary contact for administrative units and academic departments who need to assist faculty, staff and campus visitors with disabilities. Additional policies and procedures can be found through Inclusive Princeton. If you’re looking to get around campus, our campus accessibility map shows accessible routes across campus. Learn More Child Care Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications At Princeton, we take pride in taking care of our entire family, including the youngest members. Our family-focused resources aim to meet the needs of family life while students pursue their academic programs. Learn More One Community Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice