Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW Testing Resources Summer Plan Vaccination Info Better Days Are Here, Pokes! Welcome to your one-stop shop for information regarding the university’s goal of keeping the health and safety of our campus community priority number one, while still fulfilling our educational mission. Latest UW News Hear From Our Experts Not a Moment…A Movement. What you need to know now: UW’s COVID Testing Program to Halt at Semester’s End April 13, 2022 – The University of Wyoming Board of Trustees has adopted a COVID-19 plan for the summer, including an end to the university’s random-sample testing program. Throughout this academic year, 3 percent of on-campus employees and students have been tested each week to monitor the prevalence of the virus at UW, with samples collected by UW employees and processed at the Wyoming State Veterinary Laboratory. That program will end May 6, with voluntary testing available May 9-11 during finals week. Diagnostic testing will continue to be available to students through UW’s Student Health Service. Employees can procure diagnostic testing and home test kits at local retail stores, pharmacies and health care providers. In addition to ending its testing program, UW will sunset its public COVID dashboard and will no longer provide contract tracing efforts after the spring semester. Quarantine and isolation housing still will be available for students in the residence halls, but not in other UW-owned apartments or properties. As has been the case since Feb. 21, masks are not required in UW facilities, except health care settings. And they’ll only be recommended if Albany County returns to a high COVID transmission level. Masks continue to be required on UW Transit Service buses, in accordance with federal rules that currently are set to expire May 3. UW continues to strongly recommend COVID-19 vaccination and boosters, which have been proven to be highly effective and safe -- and effective in preventing severe illness and hospitalization, even with Omicron and its highly transmissible BA.2 subvariant. UW’s only vaccination requirement -- in accordance with a federal rule -- is for employees of health care units, with religious and medical exemptions available. Cowboys Can do their part Simple steps you can take to help keep our campus healthy and safe. GET VACCINATED While it’s not required, UW students and employees are strongly encouraged to receive the COVID-19 vaccine STAY HOME IF YOU'RE SICK The university continues to encourage students and employees to self-monitor for COVID-19-like symptoms and to not enter campus and communal spaces if they do have symptoms. REPORT YOUR VACCINATION Students who receive their COVID-19 vaccinations should upload documentation to the Student Health Service patient portal as soon as their vaccine series is complete. To do so, simply upload a photo of your vaccination document using your regular UW user ID and password. For employees, a quick reference guide has been created to help record this information within HCM. Contact Info Contact UW’s COVID-19 Response Team by calling (307) 766-COVD (2683) or emailing COVID19@uwyo.edu If you are having difficulty accessing information on this page, please contact webhelp@uwyo.edu 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility