Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > About Us > Events Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events CUIMC Grand Rounds Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Events Search by keyword Categories - Any -AdmissionsAdvisingArchitectureArtsAthleticsAwardsBasic Health SciencesBusinessCareersClinical Health SciencesCollege of Dental MedicineCollege of Physicians and SurgeonsColumbia NursingCommencementCommunications and MediaComputer ScienceCore CurriculumCOVID-19DeadlineEarth InstituteEconomicsEducationEngineeringFinanceGlobal ProgramsGovernment and Public PolicyGraduate School of Arts and SciencesHealthcareHuman ResourcesHumanitiesInternational and Public AffairsJournalismLawLibrariesMailman School of Public HealthMusicNatural SciencesOrientationOtherPolitical ScienceReligionResearchReunionSchool of Social WorkSocial JusticeSocial SciencesSportsTeaching and LearningWorld Leaders Forum Date E.g., 06/01/2022 Quantitative Genomics Training Tuesday, June 14, 2022 to Wednesday, June 15, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Mailman School of Public Health Research Quantitative Genomics Training: Methods and tools for whole-genome and transcriptome analyses The Quantitative Genomics Training is a two-day intensive training of seminars and hands-on analytical sessions to provide an overview of concepts, methods, and tools for whole-genome and transcriptome analyses in human health studies. This two-day intensive workshop will provide a rigorous introduction to several different techniques to analyze whole-genome sequencing and transcriptome data. Led by a team of experts in statistical genomics and bioinformatics, who have developed their own methods to analyze such data, the training will integrate seminar lectures with hands-on computer lab sessions to put concepts into practice. The training will focus on reviewing existing approaches based on predicted expression association with traits, colocalization of causal variants, and Mendelian Randomization, including discussion on how they relate to each other, and their advantages and limitations. Emphasis will also be given to reviewing integrative sequence based association studies for whole-genome sequencing data, and functional annotation of variants in noncoding regions of the genome. By the end of the workshop, participants will be familiar with the following topics: Sequence based association tests (Burden, SKAT and extensions) Functional genomic annotations Analysis of genomic variants in human diseases Transcriptome wide association tests (PrediXcan, MetaXcan, and extensions) Mendelian Randomization techniques Colocalization techniques Investigators at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees and early-stage investigators to participate. PREREQUISITES AND REQUIREMENTS There are three prerequisites to attend this workshop: Each participant must have an introductory background in statistics and genetics, and/or in bioinformatics or the statistical analysis of genetic data. Experience using R/Linux is recommended to get the most out of lab sessions. Each participant is required to have a personal laptop/computer and a free, basic RStudio Cloud account. All lab sessions will be done using RStudio Cloud. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at Columbia.Genomics@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. CUIMC All Employee Resource Group (ERG) Meeting Tuesday, June 14, 2022 11:00 AM to 12:00 PM Venue Online Event Categories Other Human Resources Teaching and Learning Join us on Tuesday, June 14, 2022 at 11:00am for our All Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) Meeting. Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are voluntary groups of employees who join together in their workplace based on shared characteristics or life experiences and serve as a resource for members and the organization by fostering a diverse, inclusive workplace aligned with organizational goals. During this meeting you will hear updates from each ERG employee leader, and learn how you can get involved and join one of 10 ERGs! We will also have a guest speaker, Cherron Inko-Tariah. Cherron is a consultant, coach and author of The Incredible Power of Staff Networks. She founded The Power of Staff Networks consultancy. She is passionate about staff networks and the positive impacts they can have on individuals and organizations. Cherron also founded the National Day for Staff Networks. This year’s theme is Viable Visible Voices! Cherron will share the importance of staff networks and why they have the potential to grow and function at both operational and strategic levels. All Staff and Faculty are welcome to register and attend. Zoom meeting details will be provided to all registrants closer to the event date. ISSO Newly Arrived J-1 Faculty and Researchers Orientation Tuesday, June 14, 2022 11:00 AM to 12:30 PM Venue Online Event Zoom Webinar Categories Other Orientation This ISSO sponsored event is for Newly Arrived J-1 Faculty and Researchers at Columbia University. You are invited to our Newly Arrived J-1 Faculty and Researchers Orientation. These sessions are for those who have recently arrived. The orientation covers an overview of this visa status. ISSO strongly recommends you attend. Please have your DS-2019 and passport available. Register here. We are CUIMC: Unapologetically Us on Haven Plaza Tuesday, June 14, 2022 12:00 PM to 2:00 PM Venue Haven Plaza, Haven Avenue between Fort Washington Avenue and 169th Street Categories Human Resources Teaching and Learning Join us on Haven Plaza as we celebrate Pride month! Harlem Pride and our LGBTQ+ ERG will have tables with lots of giveaways and resources. Special performances by Harmonica Sunbeam, The Comedy Queen and CUIMC’s very own Zsalyne “Jay” Fergus, Department of Surgery will share some musical selections. Grab your lunch and join us on the plaza for this very fun event. All are welcome to attend. Soft drinks and ice cream will be provided by Faculty Club! #TrustWorkers: (Re)Building Relationships Tuesday, June 14, 2022 5:30 PM to 7:00 PM Venue The Forum at Columbia University, 601 W. 125th St., New York, NY 10027 Categories Arts Other #TrustWorkers: (Re)Building Relationships between New Yorkers and the Medical System New York City-based Community Health Workers (CHWs) chronicle their work at the frontlines of the public health system during COVID through personal photographs Register Here. Join Us on Tuesday, June 14th | 5:30–8PM ET The Trust Project at INCITE is pleased to invite you to the Opening Night of our Community Health Worker Photovoice Exhibition “#TrustWorkers: (Re)Building Relationships between New Yorkers and the Medical System.” The exhibition will feature the intimate photographic narratives created by Community Health Workers (CHWs) who work at the frontlines of the nation’s public health system during the COVID crisis. The Trust Project at Columbia, in partnership with the Bronx Community Health Network, Weill Cornell, New York-Presbyterian, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, partners at Hunter College, and other stakeholders, this exhibition explores firsthand accounts of how CHWs have served diverse communities by providing access and information about health, nutrition, public services, vaccination, and more. In doing so, CHWs build important relationships between the communities they serve, the medical establishment, and the City’s public institutions. This exhibition aims to raise awareness of the critical role of CHWs as essential trust workers in the nation’s public health system and catalyze an overdue conversation about community health, trust and mistrust in medical science, and pathways for reforms. Join us on Tuesday, June 14, 2022, from 5:30 to 8:00 PM in the East Atrium at The Forum @ Columbia, located at 125th and Broadway. The exhibition will be free and open to the public. Drinks and appetizers will be provided during the Opening Night. What Pediatricians & Families Should Know About Gene Therapy Today Tuesday, June 14, 2022 6:00 PM to 7:00 PM Venue Online Event Categories College of Physicians and Surgeons Join a panel of pediatric specialists from Columbia University Irving Medical Center, Weill Cornell Medicine, and NewYork-Presbyterian for an informational conversation on the latest advances in gene therapy. This exciting new frontier offers the expansion of treatment options for patients with genetic diseases. Novel gene therapies are in advanced stages of clinical trials for a spectrum of diseases including blood disorders such as thalassemia, sickle cell anemia, hemophilia, and immune deficiency disorders. Our expert panel in includes Joshua Milner, MD, Director, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology; Professor of Pediatrics, Columbia University Irving Medical Center; Sujit Sheth, MD, Chief, Division of Pediatric Hematology/ Oncology; Vice Chair of Clinical Research; Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, Weill Cornell Medicine; Wendy Chung, MD, Chief, Division of Clinical Genetics; Medical Director, Columbia Genetic Counseling Graduate Program; Kennedy Family Professor, Columbia University Irving Medical Center; Monica Bhatia, MD, Section Chief, Pediatric Stem Cell Transplant; Associate Professor of Pediatrics, Columbia University Irving Medical Center; Catherine McGuinn, MD, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Weill Cornell Medicine. The conversation will be moderated by award-winning CBS medical correspondent Dr. Max Gomez. Attendees will have a chance to submit questions to the panelists. REGISTER HERE Edward P. Evans Center for Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) Seminar Wednesday, June 15, 2022 12:00 PM to 1:00 PM Venue Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center, 1130 St. Nicholas Ave., New York, NY 10032 1st floor auditorium Categories Basic Health Sciences Clinical Health Sciences College of Physicians and Surgeons Healthcare Research David Steensma, MD, Global Hematology Head at Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Towards Treating Clonal Hematopoiesis and Clonal Cytopenias: Targeting The First Cell and Its Consequences TISSUE TALKS: Samir Mitragotri, Harvard University Wednesday, June 15, 2022 3:00 PM to 4:00 PM Venue Online Event Categories Engineering Research We are excited to welcome Prof. Samir Mitragotri from Harvard University to Tissue Talks on Wednesday, June 15th at 3:00PM ET as he presents, "Cellular Backpacks: Drug Delivery meets Tissue Engineering." ABOUT TISSUE TALKS Join us every Wednesday at 3:00PM ET for the popular Tissue Talks, our weekly webinar series hosted by Dr. Gordana Vunjak-Novakovic and the Laboratory for Stem Cells and Tissue Engineering. Don’t miss the opportunity each week to hear from global leaders in Tissue Engineering! Machine Learning Boot Camp: Analyzing Biomedical and Health Data Thursday, June 16, 2022 to Friday, June 17, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Mailman School of Public Health Research Machine Learning Boot Camp: Analyzing Biomedical and Health Data The Machine Learning Boot Camp is a two-day intensive boot camp of seminars combined with hands-on R labs and data applications to provide an overview of statistical concepts, techniques, and data analysis methods with applications in biomedical research.  This two-day intensive training will provide a broad introduction to machine learning methodology with applications in biomedical research. Taught by a team of biostatisticians, the Boot Camp will integrate seminar lectures with hands-on R lab sessions to put concepts into practice. Emphasis will be given to supervised (e.g., penalized methods, classification and decision trees, survival forests) and unsupervised methods (e.g., clustering algorithms, dimensionality reduction) with numerous case studies and biomedical applications. The workshop will conclude with an overview and demonstration of ‘deep learning’ algorithms. By the end of the boot camp, participants will be familiar with the following topics: Penalized Regression Methods (Ridge and Lasso) Classification Models (e.g., Support Vector Machines) Tree Based Methods (Decision/Regression Trees) Clustering Algorithms Principal Component Analysis (PCA) Deep Learning – Introduction to dense and convolutional neural networks  Investigators at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees and early-stage investigators to participate. PREREQUISITES AND REQUIREMENTS There are three prerequisites/requirements to attend: Each participant must have an introductory background in statistics (i.e., linear and logistic regression). Each participant must be familiar with R. The main platform used for the workshop will be RStudio Cloud, therefore we strongly recommend that participants have a basic understanding of R/RStudio prior to attending the Training. Each participant is required to have a free, basic RStudio Cloud account prior to the first day of the workshop, as all lab sessions will be done on this platform. If you have any specific questions about R and R studio in the context of the Machine Learning Boot Camp, please email us. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at Columbia.MachineLearning@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. Climate Change and Health Boot Camp Thursday, June 16, 2022 to Friday, June 17, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Mailman School of Public Health Research Climate Change and Health Boot Camp: Building Skills and Knowledge for Effective Engagement The Climate Change and Health Boot Camp is a two-day intensive course that will prepare clinicians, scientists, and other members of the research, health, and public health communities for informed, effective engagement with climate change issues in their professional lives. This two-day intensive boot camp combines content on the mechanisms and health impacts of climate change with practical approaches to mitigation and adaptation that participants can apply to their professional work. Led by physicians and public health experts with specialized training in Climate Change and Health, this workshop will integrate content-oriented lectures, skills-oriented class exercises, and group discussion of broader themes, challenges, and opportunities. Upon completion of the course, participants are expected to have an understanding of key topics in climate change and health and a personal action plan for engagement with these issues in their professional work. By the end of the workshop, participants will be familiar with the following topics: Causes of climate change and the contribution of the health system to climate change Current, evidence-based mechanisms connecting climate change to health impacts Implications of climate change for health equity How to access climate projections, information on projected health impacts, and information to support long-term planning and research Clinical actions to consider in climate-affected patients Principals of healthcare system and public health resilience planning in the context of climate change Principals of climate and health communication with a variety of stakeholders Case studies on successful engagement with climate and health issues by individuals, institutions, and communities Professionals at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees and early-stage investigators to participate. PREREQUISITES AND REQUIREMENTS There are no prerequisites attend this training, but there are two requirements: Participants are expected to attend all sessions and come prepared to participate in group discussions, undertake brief in-class exercises, and share their experience/expertise with other learners. Participants will be expected to have a working laptop or tablet with video and audio capabilities. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at ColumbiaSHARP.Climate@gmail.com. Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top