Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Why it’s hard to maintain weight loss May 2, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email About 70% of U.S. adults are trying to lose weight. However, as a result of evolutionary pressures dating back to our most distant ancestors, our bodies are programmed to resist weight loss. Research by Michael Rosenbaum and others has shown that losing weight and keeping it off are different. And keeping weight off is harder. “We are richly endowed with genes that defend the storage of calories as fat,” says Michael Rosenbaum, MD, professor of pediatrics and medicine at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, who studies how our bodies fight weight loss. Early humans were subject to frequent periods of poor access to nutrition. People best at storing fat calories when food was available, and conserving them when it wasn’t, were most likely to survive and reproduce. “Evolutionary pressures favor genes that enhance reproductive capacity, and the ability to store calories would clearly meet this criterion,” says Rosenbaum. “The tendency to gain weight and the difficulty in losing it and keeping it off is primarily a biological problem, not a reflection of sloth and gluttony.” Your body’s weight loss battle Rosenbaum’s research with his Columbia colleague Rudolph Leibel, MD, and many others, has shown losing weight and keeping it off are different. And keeping weight off is harder, often requiring a lifetime of attention. Contrary to popular opinion, people without obesity generally have just as much difficulty in sustaining a small degree of weight loss as people with obesity have with even larger degrees of weight reduction. The math behind regaining lost weight If somebody loses 10% of their weight and wants to stay at that new low, they need to eat 300-400 fewer calories a day than someone who’s naturally at that same lower weight. During weight loss (usually by diet) and weight loss maintenance, multiple biological systems “conspire” to return us to our previous levels of fat stores to maintain the passing down of calorie-storing genes. After losing weight your metabolism is likely slower and your appetite is likely greater and will probably stay that way if you keep the weight off. To keep weight off you must actively work to address, and hopefully reverse, the biological changes induced by weight loss. But what’s the best way to do that? Rosenbaum is currently trying to find out by looking at the regulation of body weight from "the lowly fat cell to the highest cortical centers of the brain” in a much more meticulous way than previous studies. The key question is: Can we identify the reasons that make weight loss hard for each individual and design personalized approaches that make it easier? Each person has different degrees of slower metabolism and increased appetite and different reasons that make it hard to maintain weight loss, says Rosenbaum. By looking for the genes, biological markers, and behaviors that have the biggest effects in each person, researchers can design more focused interventions to address individual differences. “There are no assumptions that one approach will work for everyone, but there are a lot of reasons to believe that we can design the best approach for anyone,” he says. Body weight is important to health Many people are concerned about weight. Unfortunately, says Rosenbaum, we tend to define successful weight management based on appearance, not health. “Even a small amount of sustained weight loss can have tremendous health benefits, and anyone who achieves this should be supported and admired," he says. Healthy habits that keep weight off  The National Weight Control Registry follows over 10,000 individuals who have sustained weight loss. In this group of successful weight loss maintainers: 78% eat breakfast every day; 75% weigh themselves at least once a week; 62% watch less than 10 hours of TV per week; and 90% exercise, on average, 1 hour per day. That said, there is no one-size-fits-all program. “If there were universal things to do that worked for everyone, we would be doing them,” says Rosenbaum. Most weight regain is attributable to eating more, rather than moving less, so diet should be a major focus, says Columbia obesity researcher Michael Rosenbaum. Photo: Getty Images. Rosenbaum recommends: Find what works for you. Some people do best with a low fat diet, some with a low carb diet, some with intermittent fasting, and some will need to switch regularly. In general, diets should be balanced and healthful, minimizing ultra-processed foods and high fructose corn syrup. Exercise regularly. Aim for less screen time and more “move around” time—even if it is just walking around the room while watching television. Do not compare yourself to others or what works for them. The only scientifically proven weight loss tips are: eat less and move more. However, notes Rosenbaum, just stating the laws of thermodynamics ignores the tremendous physiological opposition to doing it. Some people may be able to lose weight and sustain weight loss with exercise, but most weight regain is attributable to eating more, rather than moving less, so diet should be a major focus. Whatever you do, Rosenbaum says, do it safely and with input from a health professional. References Michael Rosenbaum, MD, is professor of pediatrics and medicine at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons and associate director of the Clinical Research Resource at the Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top