Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Tips for traveling on a budget May 17, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like So you made it through another grueling semester, and now you’re ready for a vacation. You deserve it! But, you don’t have a whole lot of money. So, what are you to do? Here are some tips for traveling on a budget: Use a booking app, like Booking.com. You can find really good deals that aren’t released to the public. They usually include pictures and reviews to help with the decision-making. Stay with friends or relatives. If you have loved ones that live in or around your destination, give them a call. It would be a good time to reconnect and save some money. But, be careful not to overstay your welcome. Book early. This especially applies to airfare and rental cars. The closer to the date in question, the more it is going to cost you. Just be aware of cancellation fees in the event that you need to cancel. Be sure to take advantage of our national treasures: national parks and museums. Many are free or request a small donation. There’s so much to see at such a small price (if any). They are a great way to maximize your fun! Use frequent flyer miles to get free airline tickets. Yes…free! Many cards offer rewards, such as airfare, for using their cards. Just make sure that you pay your balance every month to avoid paying interest. Pack your lunch. Although grocery prices are rising, it is still more economical to make your own meals, as opposed to eating at a restaurant. Try to only eat out once a day and then make your other two meals. It also helps if you stay near a market and have access to a kitchenette. Being a college student doesn’t mean that you need to miss out on having fun or taking a vacation. After all, being a student is a tough job; so, you need time to yourself. But don’t break the bank either. Use these tips to maximize your fun, but minimize your bills so you can start saving for your next vacation. Related Stories Summer financial aid and registration May 31, 2022 Information about summer financial aid and registration. Should you get a summer job? May 24, 2022 This is an article about whether or not you should get a summer job. Getting out of credit card debt March 14, 2022 A blog post with tips on getting out of credit card debt. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top