Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Italian Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Italian Major Apply Visit Request More Info Italian Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Italian Build a foundation of cultural literacy, global awareness and language proficiency with the Bachelor of Arts in Italian in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This 123-credit program emphasizes critical thinking, analytical reading, and effective communication skills to help you become competitive in today’s global workplace. The Italian Major takes an interdisciplinary approach to studying the Italian language and culture, and students form a deep appreciation for cultural perspectives within the Italian-speaking world. Advanced language instruction helps you develop competency, fluency and retention in Italian. Literature and history coursework emphasizes Italy’s cultural, global and national identity, while cinema and media studies coursework illuminates the history, events and people that have shaped the country. In this intimate program, you’ll benefit from small class sizes and receive the personal attention from faculty needed to develop proficiency in the language. Faculty and administrators provide support throughout the program and work collaboratively with students to realize their individual academic and professional goals. Immerse yourself in Italian culture and society through one of Temple’s study away opportunities, including Temple University Rome. Gain a broad view of the country and its unique perspectives with classes offered in art, architecture, language and international business. Classes & Curriculum The Italian BA coursework hones your grammar, reading, writing and vocabulary skills, with an emphasis on cultural and literary analysis. In addition to elective courses, students also complete a minimum of two Italian writing-intensive classes. Some of the required courses and special topics include Composition I: Italian Composition and Conversation, Composition II: Advanced Writing Skills, Fascism and the Resistance in Italian Film and Literature, Intermediate Italian I and II, Italian for Business, LGBTQ in Italian and Italian American Culture, Love and Desire in Italian Film and Literature, Monsters and Demons: From Dante to Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and The Italian Origins of Classic Fairy Tales. Learn more about Italian Major courses. Certificate Programs The College of Liberal Arts has 22 undergraduate certificate programs for you to expand your knowledge and diversify your Temple education. Certificates can complement bachelor's programs, allowing you to specialize in an area and highlight your exposure to disciplines outside of your major. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For questions regarding the Italian Major, contact the following staff member. Michelle Xu is an administrator in the Italian Department. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: xu.michelle@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Italian Department. Cristina Gragnani is chair of the Italian Department. Phone: 215-204-1816 Email: gragnani@temple.edu Stephanie Smith is the coordinator in the Italian Department. Phone: 215-204-1261 Email: ssmith14@temple.edu Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. The following student organizations may be of interest to students in the Italian Major. The Italian Club/Società Italiana hosts Caffe Italiano twice every week, which serves as an outlet for students to practice Italian and learn about Italian culture in an informal setting. The Societa Italiana holds cooperative events with local university-based Italian clubs, including Bryn Mawr College, Drew University, Saint Joseph's University, University of Delaware and the University of Pennsylvania. The Language and Linguistics Club is dedicated to promoting the scientific study of language as well as assisting linguistic majors to become more involved and more informed about the field. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your experience at Temple by immersing yourself in Italian culture at the university’s campus in Rome. A top destination for college students studying abroad, the country is a world hub for art and architecture, culture, food, and more. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-ITAL-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Italian Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info