Skip to main content Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search University of Oregon Sites Search Site Navigation Academics Research Research Office Knight Campus Academic Initiatives Research News Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University of Oregon Main navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Main menu Research Office Knight Campus Academic Initiatives Research News Research Heal faster. Be healthier. Live better. Buoyed by three new NIH grants totaling nearly $5 million, Knight Campus researchers are merging engineering, science and medicine to improve health. Explore a Research Neighborhood Probing the Unknown A team of theoretical physicists from UO’s Particle Theory Group are shedding light on the theory of dark matter and dark energy and uncovering other fundamental secrets of the universe with funding from the U.S. Department of Energy. Team Science Students of Ice Undergraduate and graduate students serving as research assistants in the UO’s Glacier Lab are taking an interdisciplinary approach to a process typically seen through a laboratory lens. Interdisciplinary Ducks dive into research to find answers to some of humanity’s biggest questions, in areas like climate change, education, health and disease prevention. We’re striving to predict earthquakes, building better medical devices, designing clothing that fits every body, and informing wildfire policy decisions. We’re redefining science and research education for the 21st century, shaping future generations of scientists, innovators, and entrepreneurs who are ready to serve Oregon, the nation, and the world. Who We Are The University of Oregon is defining a public university of the future by focusing and strengthening research, teaching and public service excellence efforts across strengths in the environment, data science, innovation, sport and wellness and diversity. Discover More Knight Campus The Phil and Penny Knight Campus for Accelerating Scientific Impact embodies a new paradigm for pioneering scientific inquiry that accelerates the cycle of translating discoveries into innovations, products, or cures. The Knight Campus was made possible by a $500 million lead gift from Penny and Phil Knight in 2016 and followed up with a second $500 million gift in 2021. Explore the Knight Campus Record Grant Funding in 2021 Grants to UO investigators are funding projects examining the impacts of climate change on biodiversity, a push to make artificial intelligence technology more widely accessible, a multi-university institute devoted to racial and climate justice and other high-impact research across disciplines. A Record Year An Environment of Innovation The UO creates a fertile environment where new ideas, products and processes with social or economic impact can thrive. Spin Up “As a university, we want to remove barriers to translating discoveries into innovations with real-world impact. This year, we’ve seen exciting growth in this space.” Cass Moseley, Interim Vice President for Research and Innovation Where the Research Happens The UO Research Core Facilities accelerate research. Linch Pins Some brain waves aren’t just background noise New research in mice sheds light on the seemingly random brain signals that hum in the background of brains Brain Waves New saber-toothed species IDed in museum The cat-like creature was hiding in plain sight—and prompted scientists to re-think the evolution of nimravids Saber-toothed Specimen Skylights are a sustainable design choice Passive solar energy could help reduce fossil fuel dependence Sunlit Spaces UO researchers aid LIGO project in search for gravitational waves The ongoing research collaboration, which aims to reveal the secrets of black holes, just released more data Black Holes CAMPUS News Events Maps Directions A–Z Index Find People Report a Concern TOOLS Webmail UOmail Canvas Duckweb RESOURCES Class Schedule Academic Calendar UO Libraries For Journalists University of Oregon 1585 E 13th Ave. Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-1000 Contact Us Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Vimeo Visit us on Instagram Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.