COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Computer Science, Major MajorComputer Science All Programs College of Engineering School of Computing The dual/accelerated Bachelor of Science (BS) to Master of Science (MS) in computer science from Wichita State allows you to pursue dual degrees in an accelerated time frame. Upon graduation, you'll be well prepared for a high-paying, high-demand career—as well as for success in a future Ph.D. program. You’ll have access to some of the best research facilities in the country and the chance to work and research with faculty and industry professionals on campus and throughout Kansas’ largest city. Learn how computer science is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program For admission consideration, students must have successfully completed at least 90 credit hours with a GPA of at least 3.250 (or equivalent score from another country) in their bachelor’s degree. For complete requirements, including eligible undergraduate programs and majors, please consult the Graduate Catalog and/or the EECS department’s website. Admission requirements Inside the Program Students teach entry-level coding to next generation Computer science major Zane Storlie developed a three-unit curriculum teaching Scratch, an entry-level coding program, to elementary school students. Zane taught Scratch to fellow students, and together they're doing their part to fill the coder pipeline in the Wichita area. Curriculum Each student must take at least 18 credit hours of MSCS major courses. Only MSCS major courses at the 700 level and above can be used for dual credit hours. Up to nine credit hours can be used for the combined undergraduate and graduate program. Until the bachelor’s degree is awarded, a Dual/Accelerated Enrollment Form must be completed for each semester in which the student takes qualifying courses at the graduate level. Up to 12 credit hours of elective courses may be taken. Of these 12 credit hours, up to six credit hours may be from outside the EECS department. View the curriculum Careers WSU’s vast industry connections, and work-based learning for every major, gives computer science students the chance to grow their professional network, gain practical experience, earn a paycheck—and open doors to their dream careers. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Information Technology and Management Information Systems Information Technology and Management Information Systems (Minor) Education - Mathematics (Secondary) Computer Engineering Computer Science (Minor) Applied Computing 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©