Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For: Admitted Students Current Students Alumni Faculty Field Agency Partners Employers Prospective Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Equity, Justice, and Inclusion History & Mission Strategic Directions Facts & Figures News & Events 2021 Blog Archive Contact Related Links About BC Accreditation Admission Overview Why BCSSW? Apply to MSW Program Apply to PhD Program Tuition & Aid Visit Academics Overview Master of Social Work Program Full-time MSW Program Part-time MSW Program Field Education Advanced Standing Dual Degrees PhD Program Initiatives Black Leadership Initiative Latinx Leadership Initiative Trauma Integration Initiative Related Links Careers School of Social Work Library Faculty Overview Faculty Directory & Expertise Open Faculty & Postdoc Positions Related Links Social Work Library Equity, Justice, and Inclusion Research Community Overview Student Support Library Living Here Learning Communities Careers Related Links BC Graduate Student Life BCSSW News & Events Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Social Work Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Admitted Students Current Students Alumni Faculty Field Agency Partners Employers Prospective Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Community Student Support Community Student Support Library Living Here Learning Communities Careers Student Support BCSSW faculty, staff, peers, advisors, and alumni form a community of support dedicated to student success in the classroom, field placements, and beyond. The greater Boston College community also provides state-of-the-art facilities, student organizations, and opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration at research centers and institutes. Questions about accessing support services? Contact: Teresa Touhey Schirmer Associate Dean, Student Experience 617-552-4762 Advising Center Access academic guidance, including course selection, certificate information, and tips for maintaining work/life balance. The Advising Center is an invaluable resource throughout the program. Hours of Operation Mon., Tue., Fri.: 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Wed., Thu.: 10:00 a.m.–7:00 p.m. Contact the Advising Center A Range of Support BCSSW Library Learn more Enjoy a dedicated space to study and access hundreds of research databases. The Social Work Library is located right in McGuinn Hall. Advisors Learn more Advisors support you during your time through the program and monitor the practicum process for improvements. Advisors range from full-time faculty to active practitioners and leaders in a variety of human services settings. Career Services Learn more Through individual appointments, programming, and events, BCSSW Career Services helps students attain their career goals by maintaining relationships with employers and alumni who share their knowledge, networks, and opportunities. BCSSW Writing and Research Tutors Learn more These free tutors help you succeed in Research Methods in Social Work Practice and Program Evaluation or improve your writing by providing feedback about sentence structure, grammar, and APA style. The Connors Family Learning Center Learn more The CFLC offers instructional support for faculty and graduate students, special services to students with learning disabilities, and tutoring and skills workshops to all BC students. Equity, Justice, & Inclusion Learn more Boston College promotes a culture of inclusion that values each individual. Student groups and annual events focus on the diversity of our University community. Peer Advisors Learn more Before you even set foot on campus, you’ll receive a Peer Advisor, who is available at orientation to help you as you transition into the program. Disability Services Office Learn more The Disability Services Office helps students with disabilities achieve their educational, career, and personal goals by ensuring they have equitable access to the full range of institutional and community resources. University Counseling Learn more Access one-on-one counseling and psychotherapy on campus. University Counseling also works to strengthen the mental health culture of Boston College as an institution. Health and Safety Campus Safety BC EMS Eagle Escort Sexual Assault Network Emergency Preparedness Health services Counseling Services BC Events The BC Office of Graduate Student Life provides academic and co-curricular support to the graduate and professional student community. Graduate Student Life Quick Links MSW Program Research Projects Why BCSSW? Equity, Justice, & Inclusion Facts & Figures Back To Top Back To Top Boston College School of Social Work 140 Commonwealth Ave McGuinn Hall Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4020 About Admission Academics Faculty Research Community Apply Visit Give Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College