Skip to main content Search About Us Overview People Contact Us News & Announcements Subscribe to Taubman Center Events Publications Books Journal Articles Policy Briefs Working Papers Programs & Initiatives Autonomous Vehicles Policy Initiative Government Performance Lab Program on Crisis Leadership Program on Education Policy and Governance Rappaport Institute for Greater Boston Students Economic Development Seminar Policy Analysis Exercise (PAE) The Taubman Center Urban Prize Transition Term Treks Student Organizations HKS Home Search About Us Overview People Contact Us News & Announcements Subscribe to Taubman Center Events Publications Books Journal Articles Policy Briefs Working Papers Programs & Initiatives Autonomous Vehicles Policy Initiative Government Performance Lab Program on Crisis Leadership Program on Education Policy and Governance Rappaport Institute for Greater Boston Students Economic Development Seminar Policy Analysis Exercise (PAE) The Taubman Center Urban Prize Transition Term Treks Student Organizations HKS Home Search Search Taubman Center for State and Local Government About Us Supporting current and future public sector leaders in improving the governance of states, counties, metropolitan regions, and cities You are here Home Centers & Initiatives Taubman Center for State and Local Government NEWS AND UPDATES New Policy Brief on Autonomous Delivery Vehicles Autonomous Delivery Vehicles: Why You Should Care & What You Should Do explores the current landscape of Autonomous Delivery Vehicle offerings, their impact on urban mobility, and a path for policymakers to tap the benefits and minimize the risks of this new technology. Policy Brief Taubman Center Welcomes Senior Fellow Nigel Jacob Nigel Jacob, co-founder and former co-chair of the City of Boston’s Office of New Urban Mechanics, a civic innovation incubator within Boston’s City Hall, has been named a Taubman Center Senior Fellow. Press Release Laying the Foundation for Future Civic Leaders Assistant Professor of Public Policy and Taubman affiliated faculty member Justin de Benedictis-Kessner hits the road with an inaugural field lab in urban politics. HKS Article Smarter Cities Whether by working with mayors, training new leaders, or leading cutting-edge research, Harvard Kennedy School is helping cities improve people’s daily lives. Read this article from HKS Magazine's Winter 2022 edition featuring the Taubman Center and its affiliates. HKS Magazine SUBSCRIBE Sign up to receive the latest on Taubman Center events, research, and student opportunities. SIGN UP GENERATING STATE & LOCAL POLICY SOLUTIONS The Taubman Center convenes thought leaders and Harvard faculty, staff, and students to drive progress on emerging state and local issues. From urban mobility and economic development to education and government performance, we support and disseminate world-class research and solutions to help state and local policymakers reach better, data-driven decisions. Chelsea Eats Guaranteed Income Pilot Program The Rappaport Institute is analyzing the impact of Chelsea Eats, a guaranteed income pilot program launched by the City of Chelsea in September 2020 to support Chelsea residents during the COVID-19 crisis. Special Project Developing Urban Mobility Policy in Response to AVs This publication from Taubman Center Affiliated Faculty Mark Fagan and Stanford's Dr. Lance Eliot is a resource for policymakers as they craft and implement policies in the fast-moving field of autonomous vehicles. Policy Brief Creating a Diversion Pathway in Gregg County, Texas This policy brief from the Government Performance Lab outlines key insights to help communities develop pathways that identify individuals in need of mental or behavioral health support and divert them from jail or emergency rooms to an appropriate healthcare center. Policy Brief Programs and Initiatives The Taubman Center generates ideas and solutions to state and local government challenges through a variety of initiatives and programs. Learn more about the Autonomous Vehicles Policy Initiative, the Government Performance Lab, the Program on Crisis Leadership, the Program on Education Policy and Governance, and the Rappaport Institute for Greater Boston. INSPIRING FUTURE STATE & LOCAL LEADERS State and local governments need talented young leaders who are passionate about finding solutions to the policy challenges that cities, counties, and states face. Through experiential learning opportunities, fellowships, and career mentorship, the Taubman Center helps connect students who are dedicated to state and local work with governments that need their support. Transition Term Transition Term embeds HKS students in the offices of newly-elected mayors, governors, and county officials during January Term to help these officials accelerate key initiatives as they shift from campaigning to governing. Learn more Economic Development Seminar This monthly non-credit seminar for HKS students convenes leading economic development thinkers and doers from around the country to engage on state, county, and city best practices and shared challenges. Learn more Treks Student-led, Taubman Center supported treks allow HKS students to meet state and local leaders in cities and towns across the country and explore how these communities approach policymaking. Learn more Policy Analysis Exercise The Taubman Center can connect state and local governments seeking policy solutions with students interested in exploring their policy challenges as part of a Policy Analysis Exercise (PAE), the capstone experience for HKS's MPP curriculum. Learn more Rappaport Public Policy Summer Fellowship Graduate students spend 10 weeks in Greater Boston's state and local agencies during a paid summer internship. Fellows help agencies advance high-profile, important policy projects and key priorities. Learn more Taubman Center Urban Prize The Taubman Center Urban Prize is open to HKS students and recognizes achievement in urban policy. For this award, we seek papers that address U.S. urban issues, with a focus on entries prepared as PAEs. Learn more A unique opportunity puts HKS students front and center in Boston government Boston Acting Mayor Kim Janey’s team looked to the Harvard Kennedy School’s Rappaport Institute for Greater Boston and Taubman Center for State and Local Government to assist with a fast and highly visible transition. HELPING SPREAD & IMPLEMENT SOLUTIONS State and local governments need support in order to make progress addressing issues such as homelessness, child poverty, criminal recidivism, and more. At the Taubman Center, we work with state and local leaders to help share best practices, spread ideas, and implement solutions to the most pressing challenges facing our nation. Taubman Center Events The Taubman Center regularly convenes policymakers, thought leaders, faculty, and students for events on state and local government issues. Click here to learn about upcoming Taubman events. GPL's Stimulus Learning Series The American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) is a once-in-a-generation opportunity for governments to address the systemic inequities laid bare by the pandemic and reshape the public systems that support vulnerable families. The GPL hosted a series of learning sessions with state and local governments, seeking to better understand how they intend to use ARPA to drive impact in areas such as benefits & economic mobility, workforce, early childhood, and more. Access the learning series here. TWEETS FROM THE TAUBMAN CENTER TaubmanCenter Calling all government #procurement leaders: The @HKSGovLab released a new publication highlighting the innovative procurement strategies that state + local leaders are employing to increase diversity among their vendors and deliver key services more equitably. Read more⏬ https://t.co/DAhhiR508n 1 month ago. MayorInnovation RT @MayorInnovation: TOMORROW: Join our friends at the @TaubmanCenter for an important discussion on the promises & pitfalls of #VisionZero: 2 months ago. TaubmanCenter Today in @citylab: Taubman visiting fellow @DavidZipper asks, can #VisionZero, the traffic safety movement that aims to end traffic deaths + injuries, be saved? Read below + don't miss our event with David exploring this topic coming up 4/14: https://t.co/5TCrMee2tf https://t.co/o5rqPPI97S 2 months ago. TaubmanCenter Calling all government #procurement leaders: The @HKSGovLab released a new publication highlighting the innovative procurement strategies that state + local leaders are employing to increase diversity among their vendors and deliver key services more equitably. Read more⏬ https://t.co/DAhhiR508n 1 month ago. TaubmanCenter Today in @citylab: Taubman visiting fellow @DavidZipper asks, can #VisionZero, the traffic safety movement that aims to end traffic deaths + injuries, be saved? Read below + don't miss our event with David exploring this topic coming up 4/14: https://t.co/5TCrMee2tf https://t.co/o5rqPPI97S 2 months ago. MayorInnovation RT @MayorInnovation: TOMORROW: Join our friends at the @TaubmanCenter for an important discussion on the promises & pitfalls of #VisionZero: 2 months ago. TaubmanCenter Calling all government #procurement leaders: The @HKSGovLab released a new publication highlighting the innovative procurement strategies that state + local leaders are employing to increase diversity among their vendors and deliver key services more equitably. Read more⏬ https://t.co/DAhhiR508n 1 month ago. MayorInnovation RT @MayorInnovation: TOMORROW: Join our friends at the @TaubmanCenter for an important discussion on the promises & pitfalls of #VisionZero: 2 months ago. TaubmanCenter Today in @citylab: Taubman visiting fellow @DavidZipper asks, can #VisionZero, the traffic safety movement that aims to end traffic deaths + injuries, be saved? Read below + don't miss our event with David exploring this topic coming up 4/14: https://t.co/5TCrMee2tf https://t.co/o5rqPPI97S 2 months ago. Taubman Center for State and Local Government Harvard Kennedy School of Government 79 JFK Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Phone: 617-495-2199 About Us News & Events Publications Programs & Initiatives For Students Newsletter Sign Up Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/TaubmanCenter/ https://twitter.com/TaubmanCenter https://www.linkedin.com/company/taubman-center-for-state-and-local-government