Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Housing Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Incoming Students Current Students Guide to Living Explore Residences Dates Other Services About First-Year Housing First-Year Application First-Year Check-In 3-2 Combined Plan Housing New Transfer and Exchange Housing Visiting Student Housing Summer Housing Options for Students Spring Check-Out Room Selection How It Works Eligibility Special Populations Registration Point Values, Lottery Numbers & Selection Appointments Selection Selecting as a Group Online Selection Step-by-Step If You Need Help Hartley Hospitality Desk Resident Advisers On Duty Columbia Public Safety Forms Residence Halls Directory with Map First-Year Area Carman Hall Furnald Hall Hartley Hall John Jay Hall Wallach Hall Upperclass Area 47 Claremont Avenue 600 West 113 Street Broadway Hall Carlton Arms East Campus Harmony Hall Hogan Hall McBain Hall Residential Brownstones River Hall Ruggles Hall Schapiro Hall SIC Residences Watt Hall Wien Hall Woodbridge Hall Fraternities and Sororities FSL Brownstones Residence Hall Amenities Bike Storage Locations Computer Labs & Print Stations Fitness Center Locations Residence Hall Lounges Rate Structure Fire Safety Resident Advisers On Duty Hartley Hospitality Desk Conference Housing Conference Housing Request Form Commencement Housing Our Team About Columbia Housing Staff Directory Resources News & Announcements Video Library Sustainability Our Sustainability Initiatives Green Sale Sustainable Columbia Website Other Campus Housing Columbia Housing You are here: Home About Our Team About Columbia Housing About Columbia Housing An important part of the Columbia undergraduate experience is living in a Columbia Housing residence hall. It provides students with a safe and supported environment as they pursue their academic goals, while also forging meaningful friendships and transitioning to independent living in an urban campus. Views of South Lawn: Students heading to and from Hartley Hall, the location of Columbia Housing's offices and the Hartley Hospitality Desk, on the east side of the lawn; A student walking past Lerner Hall towards Broadway, with Butler Library in the distance. Columbia Housing guarantees housing for all undergraduates (except 2nd Year Combined Plan students and visiting students) who file their intent to reside on campus and who remain continuously registered as full-time students. First-year student life begins on what is called “South Lawn”, an area at the heart of the main Morningside Campus. South Lawn is surrounded by the University’s main library and adjacent to Columbia’s student center — Lerner Hall. Also in close proximity to the first-year buildings are the Columbia Health offices and all three of Columbia Dining’s main dining halls. Situating students, whether they are new to Columbia or New York, in this central and convenient location helps them make a comfortable transition from their home life to campus and is enhanced by the constant support of Columbia Residential Life, whose trained Resident Assistants (RAs) live among the students in the halls. Residential Life works to create an atmosphere conducive to educational pursuits and the development of community among the diverse student body. Throughout the year Residential Life staff present programs in the residence halls and off-campus that are both social and educational. Each spring, rising sophomores, juniors and seniors participate in Room Selection, a process that allows students, either individually or with a group of fellow undergraduates, to select their living space for the upcoming fall term. Room Selection is conducted by a lottery process, providing an equitable way for students to select rooms that also takes seniority into account. To accommodate all students who want to live on campus, students who take an unauthorized leave of absence and cannot participate in Room Selection are placed on a non-guaranteed waitlist upon their return and are assigned housing if space is available. Columbia Housing offers a variety of living options to meet student’s needs, with most sophomores living in singles or doubles in corridor-style buildings while many juniors and seniors transition to living in groups within suites or apartment-style options. Students can also choose to join one of a number of Special Interest Communities or Fraternity & Sorority organizations, both who have dedicated space in brownstone-style buildings near campus. Regardless of a student’s interests or preferred living arrangements, they are sure to find a residence hall with great amenities, from building and floor lounges, to shared floor and in-suite kitchens, plus exercise rooms and quiet study spaces — all students will be able to find a spot that feels like home. All residence hall options can be explored in detail in the Residence Hall Directory available here on the Columbia Housing website. Additionally, the Columbia Housing Guide to Living provides a comprehensive overview of the policies and guidelines students are expected to abide by while residing in Columbia’s residence halls, as well as their rights as residents and the benefits and services available to them while living on campus. Columbia Housing Portal Submit a Service Request Housing Web Forms Contact Us: 212-854-2946 (Monday - Friday 9:00 - 5:00) 212-854-2779 (After hours and weekends) [email protected] Questions? Need Help? Contact the Hartley Hospitality Desk at 212-854-2779. Phone Housing Main Office: 212-854-2946 (Monday - Friday, 9:00AM - 5:00PM) Hospitality Desk: 212-854-2779 (Available 24x7) Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close