Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Undergraduate Studies The Sarah LaMendola Award Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences The Sarah LaMendola Award The Sarah LaMendola Undergraduate Research Award provides support for undergraduate research in the Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences at Brown University. It was established in honor of the memory of Sarah LaMendola ’04 through the generosity of her family and friends. Sarah LaMendola was a talented student and a caring friend. She came to Brown in the fall of 2000 from Weston, Connecticut, where she grew up with her parents Alene and Joe and her sister Dana. In her sophomore year, Sarah chose an Sc.B. concentration in Geology-Physics/Math. She was particularly interested in applying geophysics to environmental issues. Sarah spent the Fall of her Junior year at the University of Otago, in Dunedin, New Zealand. Inspired by her experience there, she returned to Brown excited about a career in hydrology and making a contribution to improving water resources worldwide. At the time of her death in February, 2003, Sarah was planning a Senior Research Thesis studying rainfall infiltration through shallow unsaturated soil using DC resistivity, taking courses in hydrology, GIS, structural geology and physics, and beginning work as an undergraduate teaching assistant. Sarah approached the world with a sense of wonder, and her enthusiasm and curiosity were contagious. She was known as a kind and supportive classmate with a lively and whimsical sense of humor, and she was surrounded by a large and loving group of friends. The Award: The Sarah LaMendola Award recognizes students who demonstrate outstanding potential for undergraduate research. Funds from the award may be used for any type of necessary research expense including travel, research materials, and laboratory costs. All undergraduates are eligible for the award, although preference will given to students who will be working on Senior Research Theses in the summer of 2021 and/or the 2021-2022 academic year. Projects that involve fieldwork are encouraged, but the quality of the proposed project is the primary selection criteria. Award Recipients: Julia Grossman, '23 Samantha Ouertani, '22 Allie Coonin, '21 Jake Acquadro, '20 Julia Krogh, '19 Grace Molino, '18 Christopher Carchedi, '17 & Nicholas O'Mara, '17 Jessica Fisher, '16 William Shinevar, '15 Kelsey Williams, '14 Michelle Graff, '13 Cameron Meyers, '12 Ana Magali Heureux, '11 Ruth Heindel, '10 Jena Johnson, '09 Aditi Bhaskar, '08 Devina Swarup, '07 Brian Yellen, '06 Elliot Grunewald, '05 The Nomination Process: Nominations for the 2020 Sarah LaMendola Award will be collected from DEEPS faculty . Award recipient(s) will be notified in late April and announced at Commencement. Students with a particular interest in the award and the research funds that it provides are encouraged to speak with their faculty research advisor, as well as Karen Fischer or Jan Tullis. In 2015, $1000 in research support will be available. For more information, please contact Karen Fischer (401-863-1360) or Jan Tullis (401-863-1921). How to Donate: If you would like to donate to The Sarah LaMendola Undergraduate Research Award fund or would like more information, please contact Dina Egge (401-863-3357). Or you can simply mail your check (made out to Brown University) to: The Sarah LaMendola Award Fund c/o Dina Egge Brown University/DEEPS 324 Brook Street, Box 1846 Providence, RI 02912 All donations are tax-deductible. People Undergraduate Studies What is Geology? Concentrations GeoDUG Advisors Research Collaborative Research Independent Research Projects and Honors Educational Opportunities The Sarah LaMendola Award Borrow Geo DVDs Graduate Studies Courses Research Lectures and Colloquia Alumni Diversity and Inclusion Outreach Print this Page Share this Page Stay Connected with DEEPS at Brown University Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Brown University Box 1846 324 Brook Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3339 [email protected] Calendar Jun 23 9:00am Dissertation Defense: Sarah McGrath Sep 7 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Department Resources Computing Guide