Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Alcohol Use Self-Assessment Alcohol Use Self-Assessment The Alcohol Use Self-Assessment is a brief, anonymous 10-question survey designed to assist students in determining whether their alcohol use results in low, moderate, or high risk to their health. If the results indicate a moderate or high risk, students have the opportunity to sign-up for BASICS (Brief Alcohol Screening and Intervention for College Students) and to make an appointment with a provider at Counseling and Psychological Services. The BASICS program is designed to assist students in examining their drinking and other drug-use behavior in a judgment-free environment. This is not an abstinence-only program. Instead, the goals are selected by the student and are aimed at reducing risky behaviors and potential harmful consequences. Services provided through the program are non-judgmental, non-labeling, and private. Related Resources Go Ask Alice! Alcohol and Other Drugs Archives Go Ask Alice! Alcohol and Other Drugs Fact Sheets National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Columbia Health Topics: Alcohol Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, our offices are currently closed. If you are experiencing high levels of distress and are in need of immediate assistance, please call 212-854-2878, available 24/7. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Staff Directory Check out our list of staff at the office department page. Health Unit Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Clinical Specialty Counseling Prevention Initiatives Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close