Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Faculty & Research Faculty Experts Switch to Faculty Directory | Faculty and Staff Directory | Administrative Offices Directory View: Active | Affiliated | Emeriti/Retired | Faculty by Expertise Achievement Issues Heather C. Hill Heather Hill studies policies and programs designed to improve teacher and teaching quality. Nancy E. Hill Nancy Hill is a developmental psychologist whose research focuses on parenting and adolescent development. Alexis Redding Alexis Redding is an expert on the college experience and student development. Her research focuses on the transition to college and examines how students navigate the undergraduate years. Adriana Janette Umaña-Taylor Adriana Umaña-Taylor is the Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Her work seeks to apply developmental science in a manner that reduces ethnic-racial disparities in psychological and academic adjustment and, in turn, promotes social justice. Adolescence William R. Beardslee William R. Beardslee is the academic chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at Children's Hospital in Boston, and the Gardner Monks Professor of Child Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School. He trained in general psychiatry at Massachusetts General Hospital and in child psychiatry and psychiatric research at Children's Hospital. Gretchen Brion-Meisels Gretchen Brion-Meisels is a lecturer in the Prevention Science and Practice Program. Her research seeks to explore partnerships between youth and adults that support both individual and collective development. Nancy E. Hill Nancy Hill is a developmental psychologist whose research focuses on parenting and adolescent development. Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Alexis Redding Alexis Redding is an expert on the college experience and student development. Her research focuses on the transition to college and examines how students navigate the undergraduate years. Mandy Savitz-Romer Mandy Savitz-Romer's professional experience has allowed her to link research to practice in the field of school counseling, specifically as it relates to college access and retention for urban students. Robert L. Selman Robert Selman served as chair of the Human Development and Psychology area from 2000 to 2004. He is the founder within this area of the Prevention Science and Practice Program in 1992 and served as its first director through 1999. Jon R. Star Jon Star is an educational psychologist who studies children's learning of mathematics in middle and high school, particularly algebra. Adriana Janette Umaña-Taylor Adriana Umaña-Taylor is the Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Her work seeks to apply developmental science in a manner that reduces ethnic-racial disparities in psychological and academic adjustment and, in turn, promotes social justice. Adult Development Nadine Gaab Nadine Gaab is an associate professor of Education. She received a Ph.D. in Psychology from the University of Zürich in Switzerland and did postdoctoral training at Stanford University and MIT. Metta Karuna McGarvey Metta McGarvey is an adjunct lecturer on education and the faculty chair of Mindfulness for Educators for Programs in Professional Education. Matthew L. Miller Matt Miller is a senior lecturer on education and associate dean for Learning and Teaching at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, where he has taught since 2006. Affirmative Action Thomas Kane Thomas Kane is an economist and Walter H. Gale Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. He is faculty director of the Center for Education Policy Research, a university-wide research center that works with school districts and state agencies. Julie A. Reuben Julie Reuben is a historian interested in the intersection between American thought and culture and educational institutions and practice. Arts in Education Catherine Elgin Catherine Elgin is a philosopher whose areas of study include the theory of knowledge, philosophy of art, and philosophy of science. Recent work considers the question of what makes something cognitively valuable. Steven Seidel Steve Seidel is the director of the Arts in Education Program at the Harvard Graduate School of Eduction. At Project Zero, he was principal investigator on projects that study the use of reflective practices in schools, the close examination of student work, and documentation of learning. Christina Smiraglia Christina Smiraglia is a senior research manager with Project Zero Connect, leading a strand of the project that investigates the educational elements of community festivals. Shari Tishman Shari Tishman is a Lecturer at Harvard Graduate School of Education and a Senior Research Associate at Harvard Project Zero, where she recently served as Director. Her research focuses on the development of thinking and understanding, the role of close observation in learning, and learning in and through the arts. Aysha Upchurch Aysha Upchurch is an artist, instructor, and an education consultant committed to youth advocacy, social inclusion, artistry development, and transformative education. Whether on stage or in the classroom, hip hop is a thread throughout her work. Upchurch holds an M.A. Assessment Tina Blythe Tina Blythe is a lecturer on education and a project director at Harvard Project Zero. Joanna A. Christodoulou Joanna A. Christodoulou works at the intersection of education and neuroscience. Her program of research, conducted at MIT in the Gabrieli Lab and at MGH Institute of Health Professions, focuses on brain and behavior correlates of development, difficulties, and intervention effects for reading. Christopher Dede Chris Dede's fundamental interest is developing new types of educational systems to meet the opportunities and challenges of the 21st century. Richard J. Light Richard Light is the Carl H. Pforzheimer Professor of Teaching and Learning. His Ph.D. is from Harvard in statistics. Steven Seidel Steve Seidel is the director of the Arts in Education Program at the Harvard Graduate School of Eduction. At Project Zero, he was principal investigator on projects that study the use of reflective practices in schools, the close examination of student work, and documentation of learning. At-Risk Youth William R. Beardslee William R. Beardslee is the academic chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at Children's Hospital in Boston, and the Gardner Monks Professor of Child Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School. He trained in general psychiatry at Massachusetts General Hospital and in child psychiatry and psychiatric research at Children's Hospital. Gretchen Brion-Meisels Gretchen Brion-Meisels is a lecturer in the Prevention Science and Practice Program. Her research seeks to explore partnerships between youth and adults that support both individual and collective development. Joanna A. Christodoulou Joanna A. Christodoulou works at the intersection of education and neuroscience. Her program of research, conducted at MIT in the Gabrieli Lab and at MGH Institute of Health Professions, focuses on brain and behavior correlates of development, difficulties, and intervention effects for reading. Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Martha L. Minow Martha Minow has taught at Harvard Law School since 1981, where her courses include civil procedure, constitutional law, fairness and privacy, family law, international criminal justice, jurisprudence, law and education, nonprofit organizations, and the public law workshop. Fernando Reimers Fernando Reimers is the Ford Foundation Professor of the Practice of International Education and Director of the Global Education Innovation Initiative at Harvard University. Mandy Savitz-Romer Mandy Savitz-Romer's professional experience has allowed her to link research to practice in the field of school counseling, specifically as it relates to college access and retention for urban students. Robert L. Selman Robert Selman served as chair of the Human Development and Psychology area from 2000 to 2004. He is the founder within this area of the Prevention Science and Practice Program in 1992 and served as its first director through 1999. Richard Weissbourd Richard Weissbourd is currently a senior lecturer on education at HGSE and at the Kennedy School of Government. He is also faculty co-director of the Human Development and Psychology master's program. Bilingual Education Nonie K. Lesaux Nonie K. Lesaux is the Larsen Professor of Education and Human Development. Her research focuses on promoting the language and literacy skills of today's children from diverse linguistic, cultural and economic backgrounds, and is conducted largely in urban and semi-urban cities and school districts. Lesaux's work has earned her the William T. Catherine Snow Catherine Snow is an expert on language and literacy development in children, focusing on how oral language skills are acquired and how they relate to literacy outcomes. Paola Uccelli Paola Uccelli is professor of education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. With a background in developmental linguistics, she studies socio-cultural and individual differences in multilingual and monolingual students’ language development throughout the school years. Charter Schools Thomas Kane Thomas Kane is an economist and Walter H. Gale Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. He is faculty director of the Center for Education Policy Research, a university-wide research center that works with school districts and state agencies. Child Abuse Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Child Development Joanna A. Christodoulou Joanna A. Christodoulou works at the intersection of education and neuroscience. Her program of research, conducted at MIT in the Gabrieli Lab and at MGH Institute of Health Professions, focuses on brain and behavior correlates of development, difficulties, and intervention effects for reading. Paul L. Harris Paul Harris is interested in the early development of cognition, emotion, and imagination. His most recent book, Trusting What You're Told: How Children Learn from Others, was published by Harvard University Press in May 2012. Nancy E. Hill Nancy Hill is a developmental psychologist whose research focuses on parenting and adolescent development. Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Nonie K. Lesaux Nonie K. Lesaux is the Larsen Professor of Education and Human Development. Her research focuses on promoting the language and literacy skills of today's children from diverse linguistic, cultural and economic backgrounds, and is conducted largely in urban and semi-urban cities and school districts. Lesaux's work has earned her the William T. Meredith L. Rowe Meredith Rowe is a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). She leads a research program on understanding the role of parent and family factors in children's early language and literacy development. Robert L. Selman Robert Selman served as chair of the Human Development and Psychology area from 2000 to 2004. He is the founder within this area of the Prevention Science and Practice Program in 1992 and served as its first director through 1999. Jon R. Star Jon Star is an educational psychologist who studies children's learning of mathematics in middle and high school, particularly algebra. Adriana Janette Umaña-Taylor Adriana Umaña-Taylor is the Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Her work seeks to apply developmental science in a manner that reduces ethnic-racial disparities in psychological and academic adjustment and, in turn, promotes social justice. David Urion David K. Urion, M.D. received his undergraduate degree from Dartmouth College, with majors in French and Chemistry, in 1976. He graduated from the Stanford University School of Medicine in 1980. After an internship in internal medicine at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, he came to Children's Hospital in 1981, and has been there since then. Civic Education Gretchen Brion-Meisels Gretchen Brion-Meisels is a lecturer in the Prevention Science and Practice Program. Her research seeks to explore partnerships between youth and adults that support both individual and collective development. Sarah Dryden-Peterson Sarah Dryden-Peterson leads a research program that focuses on the connections between education and community development, specifically the role that education plays in building peaceful and participatory societies. Meira Levinson Meira Levinson is a normative political philosopher who works at the intersection of civic education, youth empowerment, racial justice, and educational ethics. In doing so, she draws upon scholarship from multiple disciplines as well as her eight years of experience teaching in the Atlanta and Boston Public Schools. Alexis Redding Alexis Redding is an expert on the college experience and student development. Her research focuses on the transition to college and examines how students navigate the undergraduate years. Cognitive Development Elizabeth Bonawitz Elizabeth Bonawitz is the David J. Vitale Associate Professor of Learning Sciences at Harvard University. Her work focuses on the basic science theories of learning with the broader goal of informing educational practice. Her research bridges two research traditions: cognitive development and computational modeling. Joanna A. Christodoulou Joanna A. Christodoulou works at the intersection of education and neuroscience. Her program of research, conducted at MIT in the Gabrieli Lab and at MGH Institute of Health Professions, focuses on brain and behavior correlates of development, difficulties, and intervention effects for reading. Nadine Gaab Nadine Gaab is an associate professor of Education. She received a Ph.D. in Psychology from the University of Zürich in Switzerland and did postdoctoral training at Stanford University and MIT. Paul L. Harris Paul Harris is interested in the early development of cognition, emotion, and imagination. His most recent book, Trusting What You're Told: How Children Learn from Others, was published by Harvard University Press in May 2012. Metta Karuna McGarvey Metta McGarvey is an adjunct lecturer on education and the faculty chair of Mindfulness for Educators for Programs in Professional Education. Courtney Pollack Courtney Pollack is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and a research affiliate at the McGovern Institute for Brain Research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the Gabrieli Lab. Meredith L. Rowe Meredith Rowe is a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). She leads a research program on understanding the role of parent and family factors in children's early language and literacy development. Catherine Snow Catherine Snow is an expert on language and literacy development in children, focusing on how oral language skills are acquired and how they relate to literacy outcomes. Collaborative Learning Tina Blythe Tina Blythe is a lecturer on education and a project director at Harvard Project Zero. Kathryn Parker Boudett Kathryn Parker Boudett is a senior lecturer on education, director of the Data Wise Project, and faculty director of the Master's program in Learning and Teaching. Karen Brennan Karen Brennan is an associate professor at HGSE, where she directs the Creative Computing Lab, and an affiliate in Computer Science. Elizabeth City Liz City is senior lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. City has served as a teacher, instructional coach, principal, and consultant, in each role focused on helping all children, and the educators who work with them, realize their full potential. Barbara Treacy Barbara Treacy is a nationally recognized leader in online and blended learning who works with states, districts, colleges and universities, and other educational organizations to enable them to build successful online and blended programs for educators and students. Aysha Upchurch Aysha Upchurch is an artist, instructor, and an education consultant committed to youth advocacy, social inclusion, artistry development, and transformative education. Whether on stage or in the classroom, hip hop is a thread throughout her work. Upchurch holds an M.A. Computer Science Education Karen Brennan Karen Brennan is an associate professor at HGSE, where she directs the Creative Computing Lab, and an affiliate in Computer Science. Counseling and Clinical Psychology Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Mandy Savitz-Romer Mandy Savitz-Romer's professional experience has allowed her to link research to practice in the field of school counseling, specifically as it relates to college access and retention for urban students. Jacqueline Zeller Jacqueline Zeller earned her Ph.D. in clinical psychology from the University of Virginia. She is a licensed psychologist, school psychologist, school counselor, and elementary education teacher. Her clinical interests focus on prevention and intervention efforts in schools and promoting resiliency in children. Cultural Studies Houman Harouni Houman Harouni is a practice-based theorist of culture and education. His work—which combines psychology, philosophy, political economy, and pedagogy—addresses the potential of institutions for maintaining or changing social relations. Nancy E. Hill Nancy Hill is a developmental psychologist whose research focuses on parenting and adolescent development. Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Meredith L. Rowe Meredith Rowe is a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). She leads a research program on understanding the role of parent and family factors in children's early language and literacy development. Christina Smiraglia Christina Smiraglia is a senior research manager with Project Zero Connect, leading a strand of the project that investigates the educational elements of community festivals. Curriculum Development Tina Blythe Tina Blythe is a lecturer on education and a project director at Harvard Project Zero. Christopher Dede Chris Dede's fundamental interest is developing new types of educational systems to meet the opportunities and challenges of the 21st century. David Dockterman David Dockterman innovates at the intersection of research and practice. In 1982 he helped found Tom Snyder Productions, an early pioneer in educational technology, while getting his doctorate at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Houman Harouni Houman Harouni is a practice-based theorist of culture and education. His work—which combines psychology, philosophy, political economy, and pedagogy—addresses the potential of institutions for maintaining or changing social relations. Vicki A. Jacobs Vicki A. Jacobs has served as faculty director of the Teacher Education, Field Experience, and Specialized Studies Programs at HGSE. Meira Levinson Meira Levinson is a normative political philosopher who works at the intersection of civic education, youth empowerment, racial justice, and educational ethics. In doing so, she draws upon scholarship from multiple disciplines as well as her eight years of experience teaching in the Atlanta and Boston Public Schools. Fernando Reimers Fernando Reimers is the Ford Foundation Professor of the Practice of International Education and Director of the Global Education Innovation Initiative at Harvard University. Steven Seidel Steve Seidel is the director of the Arts in Education Program at the Harvard Graduate School of Eduction. At Project Zero, he was principal investigator on projects that study the use of reflective practices in schools, the close examination of student work, and documentation of learning. Jon R. Star Jon Star is an educational psychologist who studies children's learning of mathematics in middle and high school, particularly algebra. Shari Tishman Shari Tishman is a Lecturer at Harvard Graduate School of Education and a Senior Research Associate at Harvard Project Zero, where she recently served as Director. Her research focuses on the development of thinking and understanding, the role of close observation in learning, and learning in and through the arts. Barbara Treacy Barbara Treacy is a nationally recognized leader in online and blended learning who works with states, districts, colleges and universities, and other educational organizations to enable them to build successful online and blended programs for educators and students. Development of children's thinking Elizabeth Bonawitz Elizabeth Bonawitz is the David J. Vitale Associate Professor of Learning Sciences at Harvard University. Her work focuses on the basic science theories of learning with the broader goal of informing educational practice. Her research bridges two research traditions: cognitive development and computational modeling. Distance Learning Tina Blythe Tina Blythe is a lecturer on education and a project director at Harvard Project Zero. Alex R Hodges Alex Hodges, MLS, ABD, is the HGSE librarian and director, Monroe C. Gutman Library. As full-time, non-ladder faculty, he serves as a member of the faculty of education and Lecturer on Education. During academic year 2021-2022, Hodges is the faculty director of HGSE’s specialized studies Ed.M. program for online, part-time students. Barbara Treacy Barbara Treacy is a nationally recognized leader in online and blended learning who works with states, districts, colleges and universities, and other educational organizations to enable them to build successful online and blended programs for educators and students. Diversity Axelle Bagot Sarah Dryden-Peterson Sarah Dryden-Peterson leads a research program that focuses on the connections between education and community development, specifically the role that education plays in building peaceful and participatory societies. Nancy E. Hill Nancy Hill is a developmental psychologist whose research focuses on parenting and adolescent development. Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Meira Levinson Meira Levinson is a normative political philosopher who works at the intersection of civic education, youth empowerment, racial justice, and educational ethics. In doing so, she draws upon scholarship from multiple disciplines as well as her eight years of experience teaching in the Atlanta and Boston Public Schools. Meredith L. Rowe Meredith Rowe is a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). She leads a research program on understanding the role of parent and family factors in children's early language and literacy development. Adriana Janette Umaña-Taylor Adriana Umaña-Taylor is the Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Her work seeks to apply developmental science in a manner that reduces ethnic-racial disparities in psychological and academic adjustment and, in turn, promotes social justice. Early Childhood Development Elizabeth Bonawitz Elizabeth Bonawitz is the David J. Vitale Associate Professor of Learning Sciences at Harvard University. Her work focuses on the basic science theories of learning with the broader goal of informing educational practice. Her research bridges two research traditions: cognitive development and computational modeling. Joanna A. Christodoulou Joanna A. Christodoulou works at the intersection of education and neuroscience. Her program of research, conducted at MIT in the Gabrieli Lab and at MGH Institute of Health Professions, focuses on brain and behavior correlates of development, difficulties, and intervention effects for reading. Nadine Gaab Nadine Gaab is an associate professor of Education. She received a Ph.D. in Psychology from the University of Zürich in Switzerland and did postdoctoral training at Stanford University and MIT. Stephanie M. Jones Stephanie Jones' research, anchored in prevention science, focuses on the effects of poverty and exposure to violence on children and youth's social, emotional, and behavioral development. Nonie K. Lesaux Nonie K. Lesaux is the Larsen Professor of Education and Human Development. Her research focuses on promoting the language and literacy skills of today's children from diverse linguistic, cultural and economic backgrounds, and is conducted largely in urban and semi-urban cities and school districts. Lesaux's work has earned her the William T. Louisa Penfold Louisa Penfold is a visual art and early childhood specialist currently working as a Post-Doctoral Fellow in Early Childhood Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She has worked on the learning programs at international art museums including Tate (UK), the Serpentine (UK), and the Ipswich Art Gallery (Australia). Meredith L. Rowe Meredith Rowe is a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). She leads a research program on understanding the role of parent and family factors in children's early language and literacy development. Catherine Snow Catherine Snow is an expert on language and literacy development in children, focusing on how oral language skills are acquired and how they relate to literacy outcomes. Economy and Education Christopher Dede Chris Dede's fundamental interest is developing new types of educational systems to meet the opportunities and challenges of the 21st century. Joseph P. Kalt Joseph P. Kalt is Ford Foundation Professor of International Political Economy. His research focuses on exploring the economic implications and political origins of the government regulation of markets. He also heads the Harvard Project on American Indian Economic Development. Thomas Kane Thomas Kane is an economist and Walter H. Gale Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. He is faculty director of the Center for Education Policy Research, a university-wide research center that works with school districts and state agencies. Bridget Terry Long Dr. Bridget Terry Long, Ph.D. is Dean and Saris Professor of Education and Economics at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. A member of the HGSE faculty since 2000, Long served as academic dean from 2013 to 2017 and was previously the faculty director of the Ed.D. and Ph.D. Paul Reville Paul Reville is the Francis Keppel Professor of Practice of Educational Policy and Administration at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). He is the founding director of HGSE's Education Redesign Lab. In 2013, he completed nearly five years of service as the Secretary of Education for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Educational Equity Christopher Dede Chris Dede's fundamental interest is developing new types of educational systems to meet the opportunities and challenges of the 21st century. Aaliyah El-Amin Aaliyah El-Amin is a practitioner and researcher committed to ensuring that educators have the knowledge and tools they need to disrupt systems of oppression. Her specific interest areas include liberatory education models, social justice schooling, critical pedagogy and youth participatory action research. Nancy E. Hill Nancy Hill is a developmental psychologist whose research focuses on parenting and adolescent development. Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Bridget Terry Long Dr. Bridget Terry Long, Ph.D. is Dean and Saris Professor of Education and Economics at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. A member of the HGSE faculty since 2000, Long served as academic dean from 2013 to 2017 and was previously the faculty director of the Ed.D. and Ph.D. Fernando Reimers Fernando Reimers is the Ford Foundation Professor of the Practice of International Education and Director of the Global Education Innovation Initiative at Harvard University. Paul Reville Paul Reville is the Francis Keppel Professor of Practice of Educational Policy and Administration at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). He is the founding director of HGSE's Education Redesign Lab. In 2013, he completed nearly five years of service as the Secretary of Education for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Mandy Savitz-Romer Mandy Savitz-Romer's professional experience has allowed her to link research to practice in the field of school counseling, specifically as it relates to college access and retention for urban students. Educational Media Joseph Blatt Joe Blatt is interested in the effects of media content and technology on development, learning, and civic behavior. His courses span both formal and informal settings. Christopher Dede Chris Dede's fundamental interest is developing new types of educational systems to meet the opportunities and challenges of the 21st century. David Dockterman David Dockterman innovates at the intersection of research and practice. In 1982 he helped found Tom Snyder Productions, an early pioneer in educational technology, while getting his doctorate at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Barbara Treacy Barbara Treacy is a nationally recognized leader in online and blended learning who works with states, districts, colleges and universities, and other educational organizations to enable them to build successful online and blended programs for educators and students. Emotional Development Paul L. Harris Paul Harris is interested in the early development of cognition, emotion, and imagination. His most recent book, Trusting What You're Told: How Children Learn from Others, was published by Harvard University Press in May 2012. Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Metta Karuna McGarvey Metta McGarvey is an adjunct lecturer on education and the faculty chair of Mindfulness for Educators for Programs in Professional Education. Mandy Savitz-Romer Mandy Savitz-Romer's professional experience has allowed her to link research to practice in the field of school counseling, specifically as it relates to college access and retention for urban students. Entrepreneurship Joseph Blatt Joe Blatt is interested in the effects of media content and technology on development, learning, and civic behavior. His courses span both formal and informal settings. Christopher Dede Chris Dede's fundamental interest is developing new types of educational systems to meet the opportunities and challenges of the 21st century. Monica C. Higgins Monica Higgins joined the Harvard faculty in 1995 and is the Kathleen McCartney Professor of Education Leadership at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE) where her research and teaching focus on the areas of leadership development and organizational change. Fernando Reimers Fernando Reimers is the Ford Foundation Professor of the Practice of International Education and Director of the Global Education Innovation Initiative at Harvard University. John Richards John Richards is a senior executive in education, technology, and media with extensive experience in business development and strategic planning. Ethnic Issues Joseph Blatt Joe Blatt is interested in the effects of media content and technology on development, learning, and civic behavior. His courses span both formal and informal settings. Nancy E. Hill Nancy Hill is a developmental psychologist whose research focuses on parenting and adolescent development. Joseph P. Kalt Joseph P. Kalt is Ford Foundation Professor of International Political Economy. His research focuses on exploring the economic implications and political origins of the government regulation of markets. He also heads the Harvard Project on American Indian Economic Development. Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Martha L. Minow Martha Minow has taught at Harvard Law School since 1981, where her courses include civil procedure, constitutional law, fairness and privacy, family law, international criminal justice, jurisprudence, law and education, nonprofit organizations, and the public law workshop. Adriana Janette Umaña-Taylor Adriana Umaña-Taylor is the Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Her work seeks to apply developmental science in a manner that reduces ethnic-racial disparities in psychological and academic adjustment and, in turn, promotes social justice. Family Issues William R. Beardslee William R. Beardslee is the academic chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at Children's Hospital in Boston, and the Gardner Monks Professor of Child Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School. He trained in general psychiatry at Massachusetts General Hospital and in child psychiatry and psychiatric research at Children's Hospital. Sarah Dryden-Peterson Sarah Dryden-Peterson leads a research program that focuses on the connections between education and community development, specifically the role that education plays in building peaceful and participatory societies. Nancy E. Hill Nancy Hill is a developmental psychologist whose research focuses on parenting and adolescent development. Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Martha L. Minow Martha Minow has taught at Harvard Law School since 1981, where her courses include civil procedure, constitutional law, fairness and privacy, family law, international criminal justice, jurisprudence, law and education, nonprofit organizations, and the public law workshop. Adriana Janette Umaña-Taylor Adriana Umaña-Taylor is the Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Her work seeks to apply developmental science in a manner that reduces ethnic-racial disparities in psychological and academic adjustment and, in turn, promotes social justice. Richard Weissbourd Richard Weissbourd is currently a senior lecturer on education at HGSE and at the Kennedy School of Government. He is also faculty co-director of the Human Development and Psychology master's program. Financial Issues in Education James P. Honan James Honan's teaching and research interests include financial management of nonprofit organizations, organizational performance measurement and management, and higher-education administration. Thomas Kane Thomas Kane is an economist and Walter H. Gale Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. He is faculty director of the Center for Education Policy Research, a university-wide research center that works with school districts and state agencies. Bridget Terry Long Dr. Bridget Terry Long, Ph.D. is Dean and Saris Professor of Education and Economics at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. A member of the HGSE faculty since 2000, Long served as academic dean from 2013 to 2017 and was previously the faculty director of the Ed.D. and Ph.D. Gender Martha L. Minow Martha Minow has taught at Harvard Law School since 1981, where her courses include civil procedure, constitutional law, fairness and privacy, family law, international criminal justice, jurisprudence, law and education, nonprofit organizations, and the public law workshop. High Schools Nancy E. Hill Nancy Hill is a developmental psychologist whose research focuses on parenting and adolescent development. Mandy Savitz-Romer Mandy Savitz-Romer's professional experience has allowed her to link research to practice in the field of school counseling, specifically as it relates to college access and retention for urban students. Jon R. Star Jon Star is an educational psychologist who studies children's learning of mathematics in middle and high school, particularly algebra. Higher Education Administration James P. Honan James Honan's teaching and research interests include financial management of nonprofit organizations, organizational performance measurement and management, and higher-education administration. Bridget Terry Long Dr. Bridget Terry Long, Ph.D. is Dean and Saris Professor of Education and Economics at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. A member of the HGSE faculty since 2000, Long served as academic dean from 2013 to 2017 and was previously the faculty director of the Ed.D. and Ph.D. Judith Block McLaughlin Judith Block McLaughlin’s work focuses on leadership and governance in higher education. She is faculty co-chair of HGSE’s new Online Master’s degree in Educational Leadership, heading the Higher Education Pathway. Matthew L. Miller Matt Miller is a senior lecturer on education and associate dean for Learning and Teaching at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, where he has taught since 2006. Alexis Redding Alexis Redding is an expert on the college experience and student development. Her research focuses on the transition to college and examines how students navigate the undergraduate years. Mandy Savitz-Romer Mandy Savitz-Romer's professional experience has allowed her to link research to practice in the field of school counseling, specifically as it relates to college access and retention for urban students. Joseph P. Zolner Joseph P. Higher Education Curriculum Richard J. Light Richard Light is the Carl H. Pforzheimer Professor of Teaching and Learning. His Ph.D. is from Harvard in statistics. Matthew L. Miller Matt Miller is a senior lecturer on education and associate dean for Learning and Teaching at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, where he has taught since 2006. Julie A. Reuben Julie Reuben is a historian interested in the intersection between American thought and culture and educational institutions and practice. Aysha Upchurch Aysha Upchurch is an artist, instructor, and an education consultant committed to youth advocacy, social inclusion, artistry development, and transformative education. Whether on stage or in the classroom, hip hop is a thread throughout her work. Upchurch holds an M.A. Joseph P. Zolner Joseph P. History of Education David Dockterman David Dockterman innovates at the intersection of research and practice. In 1982 he helped found Tom Snyder Productions, an early pioneer in educational technology, while getting his doctorate at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Houman Harouni Houman Harouni is a practice-based theorist of culture and education. His work—which combines psychology, philosophy, political economy, and pedagogy—addresses the potential of institutions for maintaining or changing social relations. Julie A. Reuben Julie Reuben is a historian interested in the intersection between American thought and culture and educational institutions and practice. Immigrant Issues Sarah Dryden-Peterson Sarah Dryden-Peterson leads a research program that focuses on the connections between education and community development, specifically the role that education plays in building peaceful and participatory societies. Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Adriana Janette Umaña-Taylor Adriana Umaña-Taylor is the Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Her work seeks to apply developmental science in a manner that reduces ethnic-racial disparities in psychological and academic adjustment and, in turn, promotes social justice. Interdisciplinary Education Courtney Pollack Courtney Pollack is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and a research affiliate at the McGovern Institute for Brain Research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the Gabrieli Lab. Christina Smiraglia Christina Smiraglia is a senior research manager with Project Zero Connect, leading a strand of the project that investigates the educational elements of community festivals. International Education Sarah Dryden-Peterson Sarah Dryden-Peterson leads a research program that focuses on the connections between education and community development, specifically the role that education plays in building peaceful and participatory societies. Houman Harouni Houman Harouni is a practice-based theorist of culture and education. His work—which combines psychology, philosophy, political economy, and pedagogy—addresses the potential of institutions for maintaining or changing social relations. Fernando Reimers Fernando Reimers is the Ford Foundation Professor of the Practice of International Education and Director of the Global Education Innovation Initiative at Harvard University. Paola Uccelli Paola Uccelli is professor of education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. With a background in developmental linguistics, she studies socio-cultural and individual differences in multilingual and monolingual students’ language development throughout the school years. Labor Issues Thomas Kane Thomas Kane is an economist and Walter H. Gale Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. He is faculty director of the Center for Education Policy Research, a university-wide research center that works with school districts and state agencies. Language Development Joanna A. Christodoulou Joanna A. Christodoulou works at the intersection of education and neuroscience. Her program of research, conducted at MIT in the Gabrieli Lab and at MGH Institute of Health Professions, focuses on brain and behavior correlates of development, difficulties, and intervention effects for reading. Paul L. Harris Paul Harris is interested in the early development of cognition, emotion, and imagination. His most recent book, Trusting What You're Told: How Children Learn from Others, was published by Harvard University Press in May 2012. Meredith L. Rowe Meredith Rowe is a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). She leads a research program on understanding the role of parent and family factors in children's early language and literacy development. Catherine Snow Catherine Snow is an expert on language and literacy development in children, focusing on how oral language skills are acquired and how they relate to literacy outcomes. Paola Uccelli Paola Uccelli is professor of education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. With a background in developmental linguistics, she studies socio-cultural and individual differences in multilingual and monolingual students’ language development throughout the school years. David Urion David K. Urion, M.D. received his undergraduate degree from Dartmouth College, with majors in French and Chemistry, in 1976. He graduated from the Stanford University School of Medicine in 1980. After an internship in internal medicine at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, he came to Children's Hospital in 1981, and has been there since then. Leadership Axelle Bagot Kathryn Parker Boudett Kathryn Parker Boudett is a senior lecturer on education, director of the Data Wise Project, and faculty director of the Master's program in Learning and Teaching. Ebony N. Bridwell-Mitchell Ebony Bridwell-Mitchell is an associate professor of education with expertise in leadership, management, and organizations at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Bridwell-Mitchell's research builds on her three areas of training and study: organizational management and theory, public policy, and education. Elizabeth City Liz City is senior lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. City has served as a teacher, instructional coach, principal, and consultant, in each role focused on helping all children, and the educators who work with them, realize their full potential. Christopher Dede Chris Dede's fundamental interest is developing new types of educational systems to meet the opportunities and challenges of the 21st century. Houman Harouni Houman Harouni is a practice-based theorist of culture and education. His work—which combines psychology, philosophy, political economy, and pedagogy—addresses the potential of institutions for maintaining or changing social relations. Monica C. Higgins Monica Higgins joined the Harvard faculty in 1995 and is the Kathleen McCartney Professor of Education Leadership at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE) where her research and teaching focus on the areas of leadership development and organizational change. James P. Honan James Honan's teaching and research interests include financial management of nonprofit organizations, organizational performance measurement and management, and higher-education administration. Metta Karuna McGarvey Metta McGarvey is an adjunct lecturer on education and the faculty chair of Mindfulness for Educators for Programs in Professional Education. Judith Block McLaughlin Judith Block McLaughlin’s work focuses on leadership and governance in higher education. She is faculty co-chair of HGSE’s new Online Master’s degree in Educational Leadership, heading the Higher Education Pathway. Fernando Reimers Fernando Reimers is the Ford Foundation Professor of the Practice of International Education and Director of the Global Education Innovation Initiative at Harvard University. Paul Reville Paul Reville is the Francis Keppel Professor of Practice of Educational Policy and Administration at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). He is the founding director of HGSE's Education Redesign Lab. In 2013, he completed nearly five years of service as the Secretary of Education for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Leadership Learning Daniel Wilson Daniel Wilson is the director of Project Zero at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE), where he is also a principal investigator, a lecturer on education at HGSE, and the educational chair at Harvard’s Learning Learning Joseph Blatt Joe Blatt is interested in the effects of media content and technology on development, learning, and civic behavior. His courses span both formal and informal settings. Tina Blythe Tina Blythe is a lecturer on education and a project director at Harvard Project Zero. Elizabeth Bonawitz Elizabeth Bonawitz is the David J. Vitale Associate Professor of Learning Sciences at Harvard University. Her work focuses on the basic science theories of learning with the broader goal of informing educational practice. Her research bridges two research traditions: cognitive development and computational modeling. Joanna A. Christodoulou Joanna A. Christodoulou works at the intersection of education and neuroscience. Her program of research, conducted at MIT in the Gabrieli Lab and at MGH Institute of Health Professions, focuses on brain and behavior correlates of development, difficulties, and intervention effects for reading. Christopher Dede Chris Dede's fundamental interest is developing new types of educational systems to meet the opportunities and challenges of the 21st century. Nadine Gaab Nadine Gaab is an associate professor of Education. She received a Ph.D. in Psychology from the University of Zürich in Switzerland and did postdoctoral training at Stanford University and MIT. Vicki A. Jacobs Vicki A. Jacobs has served as faculty director of the Teacher Education, Field Experience, and Specialized Studies Programs at HGSE. Courtney Pollack Courtney Pollack is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and a research affiliate at the McGovern Institute for Brain Research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the Gabrieli Lab. Steven Seidel Steve Seidel is the director of the Arts in Education Program at the Harvard Graduate School of Eduction. At Project Zero, he was principal investigator on projects that study the use of reflective practices in schools, the close examination of student work, and documentation of learning. Christina Smiraglia Christina Smiraglia is a senior research manager with Project Zero Connect, leading a strand of the project that investigates the educational elements of community festivals. Jon R. Star Jon Star is an educational psychologist who studies children's learning of mathematics in middle and high school, particularly algebra. Shari Tishman Shari Tishman is a Lecturer at Harvard Graduate School of Education and a Senior Research Associate at Harvard Project Zero, where she recently served as Director. Her research focuses on the development of thinking and understanding, the role of close observation in learning, and learning in and through the arts. Learning Disorders Joanna A. Christodoulou Joanna A. Christodoulou works at the intersection of education and neuroscience. Her program of research, conducted at MIT in the Gabrieli Lab and at MGH Institute of Health Professions, focuses on brain and behavior correlates of development, difficulties, and intervention effects for reading. Nadine Gaab Nadine Gaab is an associate professor of Education. She received a Ph.D. in Psychology from the University of Zürich in Switzerland and did postdoctoral training at Stanford University and MIT. Nonie K. Lesaux Nonie K. Lesaux is the Larsen Professor of Education and Human Development. Her research focuses on promoting the language and literacy skills of today's children from diverse linguistic, cultural and economic backgrounds, and is conducted largely in urban and semi-urban cities and school districts. Lesaux's work has earned her the William T. Courtney Pollack Courtney Pollack is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and a research affiliate at the McGovern Institute for Brain Research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the Gabrieli Lab. David Urion David K. Urion, M.D. received his undergraduate degree from Dartmouth College, with majors in French and Chemistry, in 1976. He graduated from the Stanford University School of Medicine in 1980. After an internship in internal medicine at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, he came to Children's Hospital in 1981, and has been there since then. Legal Issues Martha L. Minow Martha Minow has taught at Harvard Law School since 1981, where her courses include civil procedure, constitutional law, fairness and privacy, family law, international criminal justice, jurisprudence, law and education, nonprofit organizations, and the public law workshop. Library Services Alex R Hodges Alex Hodges, MLS, ABD, is the HGSE librarian and director, Monroe C. Gutman Library. As full-time, non-ladder faculty, he serves as a member of the faculty of education and Lecturer on Education. During academic year 2021-2022, Hodges is the faculty director of HGSE’s specialized studies Ed.M. program for online, part-time students. Literacy Joanna A. Christodoulou Joanna A. Christodoulou works at the intersection of education and neuroscience. Her program of research, conducted at MIT in the Gabrieli Lab and at MGH Institute of Health Professions, focuses on brain and behavior correlates of development, difficulties, and intervention effects for reading. Alex R Hodges Alex Hodges, MLS, ABD, is the HGSE librarian and director, Monroe C. Gutman Library. As full-time, non-ladder faculty, he serves as a member of the faculty of education and Lecturer on Education. During academic year 2021-2022, Hodges is the faculty director of HGSE’s specialized studies Ed.M. program for online, part-time students. Vicki A. Jacobs Vicki A. Jacobs has served as faculty director of the Teacher Education, Field Experience, and Specialized Studies Programs at HGSE. Pamela A. Mason Pamela A. Mason is director of the Language and Literacy Master's program and the Jeanne Chall Reading Lab and a senior lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Meredith L. Rowe Meredith Rowe is a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). She leads a research program on understanding the role of parent and family factors in children's early language and literacy development. Catherine Snow Catherine Snow is an expert on language and literacy development in children, focusing on how oral language skills are acquired and how they relate to literacy outcomes. Paola Uccelli Paola Uccelli is professor of education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. With a background in developmental linguistics, she studies socio-cultural and individual differences in multilingual and monolingual students’ language development throughout the school years. Management and Organizations Axelle Bagot Ebony N. Bridwell-Mitchell Ebony Bridwell-Mitchell is an associate professor of education with expertise in leadership, management, and organizations at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Bridwell-Mitchell's research builds on her three areas of training and study: organizational management and theory, public policy, and education. Elizabeth City Liz City is senior lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. City has served as a teacher, instructional coach, principal, and consultant, in each role focused on helping all children, and the educators who work with them, realize their full potential. Mathematics Education Joseph Blatt Joe Blatt is interested in the effects of media content and technology on development, learning, and civic behavior. His courses span both formal and informal settings. David Dockterman David Dockterman innovates at the intersection of research and practice. In 1982 he helped found Tom Snyder Productions, an early pioneer in educational technology, while getting his doctorate at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Houman Harouni Houman Harouni is a practice-based theorist of culture and education. His work—which combines psychology, philosophy, political economy, and pedagogy—addresses the potential of institutions for maintaining or changing social relations. Heather C. Hill Heather Hill studies policies and programs designed to improve teacher and teaching quality. Courtney Pollack Courtney Pollack is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and a research affiliate at the McGovern Institute for Brain Research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the Gabrieli Lab. Jon R. Star Jon Star is an educational psychologist who studies children's learning of mathematics in middle and high school, particularly algebra. Middle Schools Nancy E. Hill Nancy Hill is a developmental psychologist whose research focuses on parenting and adolescent development. Meira Levinson Meira Levinson is a normative political philosopher who works at the intersection of civic education, youth empowerment, racial justice, and educational ethics. In doing so, she draws upon scholarship from multiple disciplines as well as her eight years of experience teaching in the Atlanta and Boston Public Schools. Jon R. Star Jon Star is an educational psychologist who studies children's learning of mathematics in middle and high school, particularly algebra. Minorities Joseph Blatt Joe Blatt is interested in the effects of media content and technology on development, learning, and civic behavior. His courses span both formal and informal settings. Nancy E. Hill Nancy Hill is a developmental psychologist whose research focuses on parenting and adolescent development. Joseph P. Kalt Joseph P. Kalt is Ford Foundation Professor of International Political Economy. His research focuses on exploring the economic implications and political origins of the government regulation of markets. He also heads the Harvard Project on American Indian Economic Development. Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Bridget Terry Long Dr. Bridget Terry Long, Ph.D. is Dean and Saris Professor of Education and Economics at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. A member of the HGSE faculty since 2000, Long served as academic dean from 2013 to 2017 and was previously the faculty director of the Ed.D. and Ph.D. Martha L. Minow Martha Minow has taught at Harvard Law School since 1981, where her courses include civil procedure, constitutional law, fairness and privacy, family law, international criminal justice, jurisprudence, law and education, nonprofit organizations, and the public law workshop. Fernando Reimers Fernando Reimers is the Ford Foundation Professor of the Practice of International Education and Director of the Global Education Innovation Initiative at Harvard University. Adriana Janette Umaña-Taylor Adriana Umaña-Taylor is the Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Her work seeks to apply developmental science in a manner that reduces ethnic-racial disparities in psychological and academic adjustment and, in turn, promotes social justice. Moral and Ethical Studies William R. Beardslee William R. Beardslee is the academic chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at Children's Hospital in Boston, and the Gardner Monks Professor of Child Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School. He trained in general psychiatry at Massachusetts General Hospital and in child psychiatry and psychiatric research at Children's Hospital. Alexis Redding Alexis Redding is an expert on the college experience and student development. Her research focuses on the transition to college and examines how students navigate the undergraduate years. Julie A. Reuben Julie Reuben is a historian interested in the intersection between American thought and culture and educational institutions and practice. Richard Weissbourd Richard Weissbourd is currently a senior lecturer on education at HGSE and at the Kennedy School of Government. He is also faculty co-director of the Human Development and Psychology master's program. Motivation David Dockterman David Dockterman innovates at the intersection of research and practice. In 1982 he helped found Tom Snyder Productions, an early pioneer in educational technology, while getting his doctorate at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Mandy Savitz-Romer Mandy Savitz-Romer's professional experience has allowed her to link research to practice in the field of school counseling, specifically as it relates to college access and retention for urban students. Multicultural Education Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Meira Levinson Meira Levinson is a normative political philosopher who works at the intersection of civic education, youth empowerment, racial justice, and educational ethics. In doing so, she draws upon scholarship from multiple disciplines as well as her eight years of experience teaching in the Atlanta and Boston Public Schools. Julie A. Reuben Julie Reuben is a historian interested in the intersection between American thought and culture and educational institutions and practice. Catherine Snow Catherine Snow is an expert on language and literacy development in children, focusing on how oral language skills are acquired and how they relate to literacy outcomes. Neuroscience Joanna A. Christodoulou Joanna A. Christodoulou works at the intersection of education and neuroscience. Her program of research, conducted at MIT in the Gabrieli Lab and at MGH Institute of Health Professions, focuses on brain and behavior correlates of development, difficulties, and intervention effects for reading. Nadine Gaab Nadine Gaab is an associate professor of Education. She received a Ph.D. in Psychology from the University of Zürich in Switzerland and did postdoctoral training at Stanford University and MIT. Metta Karuna McGarvey Metta McGarvey is an adjunct lecturer on education and the faculty chair of Mindfulness for Educators for Programs in Professional Education. Courtney Pollack Courtney Pollack is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and a research affiliate at the McGovern Institute for Brain Research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the Gabrieli Lab. David Urion David K. Urion, M.D. received his undergraduate degree from Dartmouth College, with majors in French and Chemistry, in 1976. He graduated from the Stanford University School of Medicine in 1980. After an internship in internal medicine at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, he came to Children's Hospital in 1981, and has been there since then. Parenting Issues William R. Beardslee William R. Beardslee is the academic chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at Children's Hospital in Boston, and the Gardner Monks Professor of Child Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School. He trained in general psychiatry at Massachusetts General Hospital and in child psychiatry and psychiatric research at Children's Hospital. Nancy E. Hill Nancy Hill is a developmental psychologist whose research focuses on parenting and adolescent development. Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Meredith L. Rowe Meredith Rowe is a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). She leads a research program on understanding the role of parent and family factors in children's early language and literacy development. Adriana Janette Umaña-Taylor Adriana Umaña-Taylor is the Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Her work seeks to apply developmental science in a manner that reduces ethnic-racial disparities in psychological and academic adjustment and, in turn, promotes social justice. Richard Weissbourd Richard Weissbourd is currently a senior lecturer on education at HGSE and at the Kennedy School of Government. He is also faculty co-director of the Human Development and Psychology master's program. Philosophy of Education Catherine Elgin Catherine Elgin is a philosopher whose areas of study include the theory of knowledge, philosophy of art, and philosophy of science. Recent work considers the question of what makes something cognitively valuable. Houman Harouni Houman Harouni is a practice-based theorist of culture and education. His work—which combines psychology, philosophy, political economy, and pedagogy—addresses the potential of institutions for maintaining or changing social relations. Meira Levinson Meira Levinson is a normative political philosopher who works at the intersection of civic education, youth empowerment, racial justice, and educational ethics. In doing so, she draws upon scholarship from multiple disciplines as well as her eight years of experience teaching in the Atlanta and Boston Public Schools. Policy Analysis and Evaluation Christopher Dede Chris Dede's fundamental interest is developing new types of educational systems to meet the opportunities and challenges of the 21st century. Heather C. Hill Heather Hill studies policies and programs designed to improve teacher and teaching quality. Thomas Kane Thomas Kane is an economist and Walter H. Gale Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. He is faculty director of the Center for Education Policy Research, a university-wide research center that works with school districts and state agencies. Richard J. Light Richard Light is the Carl H. Pforzheimer Professor of Teaching and Learning. His Ph.D. is from Harvard in statistics. Bridget Terry Long Dr. Bridget Terry Long, Ph.D. is Dean and Saris Professor of Education and Economics at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. A member of the HGSE faculty since 2000, Long served as academic dean from 2013 to 2017 and was previously the faculty director of the Ed.D. and Ph.D. Luke W. Miratrix Luke Miratrix was most recently an assistant professor of Statistics in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University. His primary research focus is on causality with a focus on developing methodology to assess and characterize treatment effect heterogeneity in randomized clinical trials and observational studies. Fernando Reimers Fernando Reimers is the Ford Foundation Professor of the Practice of International Education and Director of the Global Education Innovation Initiative at Harvard University. Paul Reville Paul Reville is the Francis Keppel Professor of Practice of Educational Policy and Administration at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). He is the founding director of HGSE's Education Redesign Lab. In 2013, he completed nearly five years of service as the Secretary of Education for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Laura A. Schifter Laura Schifter is a lecturer on education with the Harvard Graduate School of Education where she teaches courses on federal policy and special education. She is also a senior fellow with the Aspen Institute leading the K-12 Climate Action initiative and a fellow with the Century Foundation. Political Theory Houman Harouni Houman Harouni is a practice-based theorist of culture and education. His work—which combines psychology, philosophy, political economy, and pedagogy—addresses the potential of institutions for maintaining or changing social relations. Meira Levinson Meira Levinson is a normative political philosopher who works at the intersection of civic education, youth empowerment, racial justice, and educational ethics. In doing so, she draws upon scholarship from multiple disciplines as well as her eight years of experience teaching in the Atlanta and Boston Public Schools. Politics of School Structure and Governance Judith Block McLaughlin Judith Block McLaughlin’s work focuses on leadership and governance in higher education. She is faculty co-chair of HGSE’s new Online Master’s degree in Educational Leadership, heading the Higher Education Pathway. Fernando Reimers Fernando Reimers is the Ford Foundation Professor of the Practice of International Education and Director of the Global Education Innovation Initiative at Harvard University. Paul Reville Paul Reville is the Francis Keppel Professor of Practice of Educational Policy and Administration at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). He is the founding director of HGSE's Education Redesign Lab. In 2013, he completed nearly five years of service as the Secretary of Education for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Poverty and Children Fernando Reimers Fernando Reimers is the Ford Foundation Professor of the Practice of International Education and Director of the Global Education Innovation Initiative at Harvard University. Paul Reville Paul Reville is the Francis Keppel Professor of Practice of Educational Policy and Administration at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). He is the founding director of HGSE's Education Redesign Lab. In 2013, he completed nearly five years of service as the Secretary of Education for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Meredith L. Rowe Meredith Rowe is a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). She leads a research program on understanding the role of parent and family factors in children's early language and literacy development. Richard Weissbourd Richard Weissbourd is currently a senior lecturer on education at HGSE and at the Kennedy School of Government. He is also faculty co-director of the Human Development and Psychology master's program. Principalship Fernando Reimers Fernando Reimers is the Ford Foundation Professor of the Practice of International Education and Director of the Global Education Innovation Initiative at Harvard University. Professional Development for Educators Axelle Bagot Tina Blythe Tina Blythe is a lecturer on education and a project director at Harvard Project Zero. Rhonda Bondie Rhonda Bondie is a lecturer on education teaching courses in the art of teaching, special education, and teacher leadership. Throughout her career, she has focused on ensuring all learners are valued, engaged, and stretched in inclusive classrooms. Kathryn Parker Boudett Kathryn Parker Boudett is a senior lecturer on education, director of the Data Wise Project, and faculty director of the Master's program in Learning and Teaching. Karen Brennan Karen Brennan is an associate professor at HGSE, where she directs the Creative Computing Lab, and an affiliate in Computer Science. Elizabeth City Liz City is senior lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. City has served as a teacher, instructional coach, principal, and consultant, in each role focused on helping all children, and the educators who work with them, realize their full potential. Christopher Dede Chris Dede's fundamental interest is developing new types of educational systems to meet the opportunities and challenges of the 21st century. James P. Honan James Honan's teaching and research interests include financial management of nonprofit organizations, organizational performance measurement and management, and higher-education administration. Thomas Kane Thomas Kane is an economist and Walter H. Gale Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. He is faculty director of the Center for Education Policy Research, a university-wide research center that works with school districts and state agencies. Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Steven Seidel Steve Seidel is the director of the Arts in Education Program at the Harvard Graduate School of Eduction. At Project Zero, he was principal investigator on projects that study the use of reflective practices in schools, the close examination of student work, and documentation of learning. Shari Tishman Shari Tishman is a Lecturer at Harvard Graduate School of Education and a Senior Research Associate at Harvard Project Zero, where she recently served as Director. Her research focuses on the development of thinking and understanding, the role of close observation in learning, and learning in and through the arts. Barbara Treacy Barbara Treacy is a nationally recognized leader in online and blended learning who works with states, districts, colleges and universities, and other educational organizations to enable them to build successful online and blended programs for educators and students. Aysha Upchurch Aysha Upchurch is an artist, instructor, and an education consultant committed to youth advocacy, social inclusion, artistry development, and transformative education. Whether on stage or in the classroom, hip hop is a thread throughout her work. Upchurch holds an M.A. Joseph P. Zolner Joseph P. Psychology Elizabeth Bonawitz Elizabeth Bonawitz is the David J. Vitale Associate Professor of Learning Sciences at Harvard University. Her work focuses on the basic science theories of learning with the broader goal of informing educational practice. Her research bridges two research traditions: cognitive development and computational modeling. Nadine Gaab Nadine Gaab is an associate professor of Education. She received a Ph.D. in Psychology from the University of Zürich in Switzerland and did postdoctoral training at Stanford University and MIT. Paul L. Harris Paul Harris is interested in the early development of cognition, emotion, and imagination. His most recent book, Trusting What You're Told: How Children Learn from Others, was published by Harvard University Press in May 2012. Nonie K. Lesaux Nonie K. Lesaux is the Larsen Professor of Education and Human Development. Her research focuses on promoting the language and literacy skills of today's children from diverse linguistic, cultural and economic backgrounds, and is conducted largely in urban and semi-urban cities and school districts. Lesaux's work has earned her the William T. Metta Karuna McGarvey Metta McGarvey is an adjunct lecturer on education and the faculty chair of Mindfulness for Educators for Programs in Professional Education. Courtney Pollack Courtney Pollack is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and a research affiliate at the McGovern Institute for Brain Research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the Gabrieli Lab. Alexis Redding Alexis Redding is an expert on the college experience and student development. Her research focuses on the transition to college and examines how students navigate the undergraduate years. Meredith L. Rowe Meredith Rowe is a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). She leads a research program on understanding the role of parent and family factors in children's early language and literacy development. Robert L. Selman Robert Selman served as chair of the Human Development and Psychology area from 2000 to 2004. He is the founder within this area of the Prevention Science and Practice Program in 1992 and served as its first director through 1999. Jon R. Star Jon Star is an educational psychologist who studies children's learning of mathematics in middle and high school, particularly algebra. Adriana Janette Umaña-Taylor Adriana Umaña-Taylor is the Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Her work seeks to apply developmental science in a manner that reduces ethnic-racial disparities in psychological and academic adjustment and, in turn, promotes social justice. Racial Discrimination Aaliyah El-Amin Aaliyah El-Amin is a practitioner and researcher committed to ensuring that educators have the knowledge and tools they need to disrupt systems of oppression. Her specific interest areas include liberatory education models, social justice schooling, critical pedagogy and youth participatory action research. Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Adriana Janette Umaña-Taylor Adriana Umaña-Taylor is the Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Her work seeks to apply developmental science in a manner that reduces ethnic-racial disparities in psychological and academic adjustment and, in turn, promotes social justice. Reading Development Joanna A. Christodoulou Joanna A. Christodoulou works at the intersection of education and neuroscience. Her program of research, conducted at MIT in the Gabrieli Lab and at MGH Institute of Health Professions, focuses on brain and behavior correlates of development, difficulties, and intervention effects for reading. Nadine Gaab Nadine Gaab is an associate professor of Education. She received a Ph.D. in Psychology from the University of Zürich in Switzerland and did postdoctoral training at Stanford University and MIT. Vicki A. Jacobs Vicki A. Jacobs has served as faculty director of the Teacher Education, Field Experience, and Specialized Studies Programs at HGSE. Nonie K. Lesaux Nonie K. Lesaux is the Larsen Professor of Education and Human Development. Her research focuses on promoting the language and literacy skills of today's children from diverse linguistic, cultural and economic backgrounds, and is conducted largely in urban and semi-urban cities and school districts. Lesaux's work has earned her the William T. Catherine Snow Catherine Snow is an expert on language and literacy development in children, focusing on how oral language skills are acquired and how they relate to literacy outcomes. Paola Uccelli Paola Uccelli is professor of education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. With a background in developmental linguistics, she studies socio-cultural and individual differences in multilingual and monolingual students’ language development throughout the school years. Richard Weissbourd Richard Weissbourd is currently a senior lecturer on education at HGSE and at the Kennedy School of Government. He is also faculty co-director of the Human Development and Psychology master's program. Reform Issues Ebony N. Bridwell-Mitchell Ebony Bridwell-Mitchell is an associate professor of education with expertise in leadership, management, and organizations at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Bridwell-Mitchell's research builds on her three areas of training and study: organizational management and theory, public policy, and education. Christopher Dede Chris Dede's fundamental interest is developing new types of educational systems to meet the opportunities and challenges of the 21st century. David Dockterman David Dockterman innovates at the intersection of research and practice. In 1982 he helped found Tom Snyder Productions, an early pioneer in educational technology, while getting his doctorate at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Thomas Kane Thomas Kane is an economist and Walter H. Gale Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. He is faculty director of the Center for Education Policy Research, a university-wide research center that works with school districts and state agencies. Richard J. Light Richard Light is the Carl H. Pforzheimer Professor of Teaching and Learning. His Ph.D. is from Harvard in statistics. Martha L. Minow Martha Minow has taught at Harvard Law School since 1981, where her courses include civil procedure, constitutional law, fairness and privacy, family law, international criminal justice, jurisprudence, law and education, nonprofit organizations, and the public law workshop. Fernando Reimers Fernando Reimers is the Ford Foundation Professor of the Practice of International Education and Director of the Global Education Innovation Initiative at Harvard University. Paul Reville Paul Reville is the Francis Keppel Professor of Practice of Educational Policy and Administration at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). He is the founding director of HGSE's Education Redesign Lab. In 2013, he completed nearly five years of service as the Secretary of Education for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Steven Seidel Steve Seidel is the director of the Arts in Education Program at the Harvard Graduate School of Eduction. At Project Zero, he was principal investigator on projects that study the use of reflective practices in schools, the close examination of student work, and documentation of learning. Richard Weissbourd Richard Weissbourd is currently a senior lecturer on education at HGSE and at the Kennedy School of Government. He is also faculty co-director of the Human Development and Psychology master's program. Research Methods Sarah Dryden-Peterson Sarah Dryden-Peterson leads a research program that focuses on the connections between education and community development, specifically the role that education plays in building peaceful and participatory societies. Thomas Kane Thomas Kane is an economist and Walter H. Gale Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. He is faculty director of the Center for Education Policy Research, a university-wide research center that works with school districts and state agencies. Richard J. Light Richard Light is the Carl H. Pforzheimer Professor of Teaching and Learning. His Ph.D. is from Harvard in statistics. Bridget Terry Long Dr. Bridget Terry Long, Ph.D. is Dean and Saris Professor of Education and Economics at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. A member of the HGSE faculty since 2000, Long served as academic dean from 2013 to 2017 and was previously the faculty director of the Ed.D. and Ph.D. Matthew L. Miller Matt Miller is a senior lecturer on education and associate dean for Learning and Teaching at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, where he has taught since 2006. Luke W. Miratrix Luke Miratrix was most recently an assistant professor of Statistics in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University. His primary research focus is on causality with a focus on developing methodology to assess and characterize treatment effect heterogeneity in randomized clinical trials and observational studies. Judith D. Singer Judith D. Singer, Ph.D., is the James Bryant Conant Professor of Education and Senior Vice Provost for Faculty Development & Diversity at Harvard University. School Culture Ebony N. Bridwell-Mitchell Ebony Bridwell-Mitchell is an associate professor of education with expertise in leadership, management, and organizations at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Bridwell-Mitchell's research builds on her three areas of training and study: organizational management and theory, public policy, and education. Gretchen Brion-Meisels Gretchen Brion-Meisels is a lecturer in the Prevention Science and Practice Program. Her research seeks to explore partnerships between youth and adults that support both individual and collective development. Josephine M. Kim Josephine Kim is a lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. She is the former faculty director of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at Harvard School of Dental Medicine where she launched award-winning K-16 pipeline programs. Aysha Upchurch Aysha Upchurch is an artist, instructor, and an education consultant committed to youth advocacy, social inclusion, artistry development, and transformative education. Whether on stage or in the classroom, hip hop is a thread throughout her work. Upchurch holds an M.A. School to Work Mandy Savitz-Romer Mandy Savitz-Romer's professional experience has allowed her to link research to practice in the field of school counseling, specifically as it relates to college access and retention for urban students. Science Education Joseph Blatt Joe Blatt is interested in the effects of media content and technology on development, learning, and civic behavior. His courses span both formal and informal settings. Christopher Dede Chris Dede's fundamental interest is developing new types of educational systems to meet the opportunities and challenges of the 21st century. Social Perspective Taking Elizabeth Bonawitz Elizabeth Bonawitz is the David J. Vitale Associate Professor of Learning Sciences at Harvard University. Her work focuses on the basic science theories of learning with the broader goal of informing educational practice. Her research bridges two research traditions: cognitive development and computational modeling. Social Services and Schools Mandy Savitz-Romer Mandy Savitz-Romer's professional experience has allowed her to link research to practice in the field of school counseling, specifically as it relates to college access and retention for urban students. Special Education Rhonda Bondie Rhonda Bondie is a lecturer on education teaching courses in the art of teaching, special education, and teacher leadership. Throughout her career, she has focused on ensuring all learners are valued, engaged, and stretched in inclusive classrooms. Laura A. Schifter Laura Schifter is a lecturer on education with the Harvard Graduate School of Education where she teaches courses on federal policy and special education. She is also a senior fellow with the Aspen Institute leading the K-12 Climate Action initiative and a fellow with the Century Foundation. Standards Paul Reville Paul Reville is the Francis Keppel Professor of Practice of Educational Policy and Administration at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). He is the founding director of HGSE's Education Redesign Lab. In 2013, he completed nearly five years of service as the Secretary of Education for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Teacher Education Rhonda Bondie Rhonda Bondie is a lecturer on education teaching courses in the art of teaching, special education, and teacher leadership. Throughout her career, she has focused on ensuring all learners are valued, engaged, and stretched in inclusive classrooms. Houman Harouni Houman Harouni is a practice-based theorist of culture and education. His work—which combines psychology, philosophy, political economy, and pedagogy—addresses the potential of institutions for maintaining or changing social relations. Jon R. Star Jon Star is an educational psychologist who studies children's learning of mathematics in middle and high school, particularly algebra. Teacher Education and Certification Christopher Dede Chris Dede's fundamental interest is developing new types of educational systems to meet the opportunities and challenges of the 21st century. Vicki A. Jacobs Vicki A. Jacobs has served as faculty director of the Teacher Education, Field Experience, and Specialized Studies Programs at HGSE. Thomas Kane Thomas Kane is an economist and Walter H. Gale Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. He is faculty director of the Center for Education Policy Research, a university-wide research center that works with school districts and state agencies. Jon R. Star Jon Star is an educational psychologist who studies children's learning of mathematics in middle and high school, particularly algebra. Teachers and Teachers' Unions Fernando Reimers Fernando Reimers is the Ford Foundation Professor of the Practice of International Education and Director of the Global Education Innovation Initiative at Harvard University. Teaching and Learning Tina Blythe Tina Blythe is a lecturer on education and a project director at Harvard Project Zero. Rhonda Bondie Rhonda Bondie is a lecturer on education teaching courses in the art of teaching, special education, and teacher leadership. Throughout her career, she has focused on ensuring all learners are valued, engaged, and stretched in inclusive classrooms. Kathryn Parker Boudett Kathryn Parker Boudett is a senior lecturer on education, director of the Data Wise Project, and faculty director of the Master's program in Learning and Teaching. Karen Brennan Karen Brennan is an associate professor at HGSE, where she directs the Creative Computing Lab, and an affiliate in Computer Science. Elizabeth City Liz City is senior lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. City has served as a teacher, instructional coach, principal, and consultant, in each role focused on helping all children, and the educators who work with them, realize their full potential. David Dockterman David Dockterman innovates at the intersection of research and practice. In 1982 he helped found Tom Snyder Productions, an early pioneer in educational technology, while getting his doctorate at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Heather C. Hill Heather Hill studies policies and programs designed to improve teacher and teaching quality. Christina Smiraglia Christina Smiraglia is a senior research manager with Project Zero Connect, leading a strand of the project that investigates the educational elements of community festivals. Jon R. Star Jon Star is an educational psychologist who studies children's learning of mathematics in middle and high school, particularly algebra. Barbara Treacy Barbara Treacy is a nationally recognized leader in online and blended learning who works with states, districts, colleges and universities, and other educational organizations to enable them to build successful online and blended programs for educators and students. Technology and Schools Joseph Blatt Joe Blatt is interested in the effects of media content and technology on development, learning, and civic behavior. His courses span both formal and informal settings. Karen Brennan Karen Brennan is an associate professor at HGSE, where she directs the Creative Computing Lab, and an affiliate in Computer Science. Christopher Dede Chris Dede's fundamental interest is developing new types of educational systems to meet the opportunities and challenges of the 21st century. David Dockterman David Dockterman innovates at the intersection of research and practice. In 1982 he helped found Tom Snyder Productions, an early pioneer in educational technology, while getting his doctorate at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Alex R Hodges Alex Hodges, MLS, ABD, is the HGSE librarian and director, Monroe C. Gutman Library. As full-time, non-ladder faculty, he serves as a member of the faculty of education and Lecturer on Education. During academic year 2021-2022, Hodges is the faculty director of HGSE’s specialized studies Ed.M. program for online, part-time students. Barbara Treacy Barbara Treacy is a nationally recognized leader in online and blended learning who works with states, districts, colleges and universities, and other educational organizations to enable them to build successful online and blended programs for educators and students. Testing Richard J. Light Richard Light is the Carl H. Pforzheimer Professor of Teaching and Learning. His Ph.D. is from Harvard in statistics. Paul Reville Paul Reville is the Francis Keppel Professor of Practice of Educational Policy and Administration at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). He is the founding director of HGSE's Education Redesign Lab. In 2013, he completed nearly five years of service as the Secretary of Education for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Urban Schooling Elizabeth City Liz City is senior lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. City has served as a teacher, instructional coach, principal, and consultant, in each role focused on helping all children, and the educators who work with them, realize their full potential. Meira Levinson Meira Levinson is a normative political philosopher who works at the intersection of civic education, youth empowerment, racial justice, and educational ethics. In doing so, she draws upon scholarship from multiple disciplines as well as her eight years of experience teaching in the Atlanta and Boston Public Schools. Paul Reville Paul Reville is the Francis Keppel Professor of Practice of Educational Policy and Administration at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). He is the founding director of HGSE's Education Redesign Lab. In 2013, he completed nearly five years of service as the Secretary of Education for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Mandy Savitz-Romer Mandy Savitz-Romer's professional experience has allowed her to link research to practice in the field of school counseling, specifically as it relates to college access and retention for urban students. Richard Weissbourd Richard Weissbourd is currently a senior lecturer on education at HGSE and at the Kennedy School of Government. He is also faculty co-director of the Human Development and Psychology master's program. Women's Studies Martha L. Minow Martha Minow has taught at Harvard Law School since 1981, where her courses include civil procedure, constitutional law, fairness and privacy, family law, international criminal justice, jurisprudence, law and education, nonprofit organizations, and the public law workshop. Writing and Literature Vicki A. Jacobs Vicki A. Jacobs has served as faculty director of the Teacher Education, Field Experience, and Specialized Studies Programs at HGSE. Paola Uccelli Paola Uccelli is professor of education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. With a background in developmental linguistics, she studies socio-cultural and individual differences in multilingual and monolingual students’ language development throughout the school years. In this section Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice