Skip to Main Content Search Workday@Penn Search About Team Your Workday Faculty Postdocs Graduate Students Student Workers Student Recruitment and Hiring Managers Staff Business Partners Toolbox Mobile App Penn Community Penn Employee Solution Center Work Location Workday Policies Training News System Status Webinar Wednesdays Learning and Talent Workday@Penn Login Mobile App Penn Community Penn Employee Solution Center Work Location Workday Policies Home Toolbox Toolbox Find information and materials to assist you in Workday@Penn operations. Guide to Changes to Work Location Find guidance from the Payroll Tax office and the Division of Human Resources for those who have a change in work location. PennKey required. Data Audit and Governance Find a collection of practices and processes that assists in the good governance and management of Penn's Workday data. PennKey required. Forms and Templates Find manual timesheets and other forms. PennKey required. The Workday Mobile App Perform many of the popular self-service tasks of the Workday@Penn desktop application with the convenient and time-saving Workday Mobile App. Penn Community Penn Community, an offering under ISC's Identity Management Services, provides biographic, demographic and affiliation information about people who are part of the University community, will be implementing a new cloud-based identity and access management solution in phases, aligned with and leveraging other critical projects, including Workday. The Penn Employee Solution Center The Penn Employee Solution Center is part of Penn’s initiative to improve our people-centered services and provide consistent, up-to-date responses to the University community's questions. Reports and Dashboards Learn about Workday reporting and the reports and dashboards the security roles can run and see. PennKey required. Security Assignments Maintenance by security leads is necessary to identify who should have access to initiate/review/approve business processes and access reports and information within specific supervisory organizations and academic units. See the Security Request process. PennKey required. Workday Policies Learn about Workday@Penn-specific policies that help to govern its use. Use your PennKey here to access website resources Contact Us Penn Employee Solution Center solutioncenter@upenn.edu or (215) 898-7372 Quick Links Training Tip Sheets University of Pennsylvania Workday@Penn University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 Workday-Announcement@upenn.edu Home Penn Home Penn HR Payroll U@Penn Copyright © 2022 The University of Pennsylvania Copyright Equal Opportunity Employer Legal Notices Clery Act Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help