HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation HOME DIVISIONS Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Healthy Campus HEALTH TOPICS ADHD Alcohol and Other Drugs Antibiotics Body Image Building Social Connections Fitness Interpersonal Violence Mental Health Nutrition Social Media and Internet Use Sexual Health Sleep Spring Break Safety Stress Suicide Sustainibility Tobacco Wellness When to See a Provider CONTACT ABOUT POLICIES & RECORDS Advance Directives Diversity Eligibility Health Fee Privacy Practice Records & Confidentiality Rights & Responsibilities Records and Confidentiality The Student Heath Services staff is committed to protecting your health information. All medical/psychological records are strictly confidential and are protected by federal and state laws, as well as professional ethics. Student records are covered by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (20 U.S.C. 1232g, 34 CFR 99). Non-student records are covered by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (45 CFR). State and federal laws dictate that student records cannot be released or disclosed without written consent of the patient/client except under the following conditions: In the event of a health or safety emergency Threat of harm to self or others Suspected child abuse Suspected abuse of elderly or disabled Court order or subpoena Records for Other Health Care Providers Record copies released to other health care providers for continuity of care are sent at no charge. Records for Personal Use Record copies for personal use are charged at the following rates: $.65 per page for the first 30 pages $.50 per page for all other pages $15 clerical fee $30 radiology series (film copies) Immunization Records Copies of immunization records only are provided at no charge. Release Forms Authorization for Release of Confidential Information form can be printed and faxed or mailed to: Redfern Health Center Box 344054 Clemson, SC 29634-4054 Fax: 864-656-0760 Note: Please plan for 7–14 business days to process your request. E-mail Policy Because of concerns for confidentiality and security, Student Health Services policies prohibit receipt or transmission of personal health information via e-mail. If you have questions or concerns regarding your medical or psychological care, the most effective way to reach Student Health Services is by phone. Providers/counselors do not monitor e-mail continuously, so if you choose to e-mail a provider or counselor, please include a phone number where you can be reached. The providers/counselors will not respond by e-mail. Secure messages can be sent between students and providers/counselors using MyHealth-e. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster