Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Student Conduct Show/Hide Home About COVID-19 Code of Student Conduct FAQs Filing a Complaint Emergency Protocols Contact Us Student Conduct & Community Standards Welcome to the Office of Student Conduct & Community Standards The Student Conduct & Community Standards deans and coordinators are committed to providing a safe and educational environment for students engaged in the process of addressing harm. Student Conduct & Community Standards deans are available to meet with students in person or remotely (zoom or telephone). Currently, all accountability processes are scheduled to be heard via zoom. However, students may contact our office and request an in-person meeting (masks required). Students can best reach us through email at [email protected] or directly at our individual email addresses. We are also available by phone at 401-863-2653. Meetings with the Director can be scheduled here. In response to the pandemic, we have worked to ensure we have processes and practices in place that reflect our values of caring for others in our community, educating students, and using restorative approaches to our work. More information about university operations, resources, and what to expect around campus can be found here. Students who have returned to campus are expected to follow required public health practices and understand that disregard of public health practices is a conduct violation that could result in removal from campus. We have put in place COVID-19 Procedures for addressing behaviors that are contrary to the policies and practices put in place to safeguard the health and safety of our community. Important Links Code of Student Conduct Filing a Complaint Campus Incident Complaint Form (for general incidents, mostly used by Brown students and staff) COVID-19 Incident Complaint Form (for incidents involving COVID-19-related violations) Off-Campus Incident Reporting Form (for use by off-campus neighbors) Title IX Contact Us Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Student Conduct & Community Standards Student Conduct & Community Standards Brown University Box 2014 Graduate Center E 42 Charlesfield St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2653 Fax: 401-863-1999 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat