Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Modern Languages (B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT You have an ear for languages, a love of literature and a sense of adventure. You yearn to travel, live and study abroad, experiencing the world from different vantage points. You understand that language is a lens through which you perceive the world, and you’re eager to understand how language shapes communication. Clemson offers a degree in modern languages where you focus on one of seven crucial languages — American Sign Language, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Mandarin Chinese and Spanish. This rigorous program will prepare you for a wide range of careers in the international arena, as well as for a variety of graduate programs. FAST FACTS Study abroad is a critical and mandatory part of the program. You'll have many ways to build proficiency in your chosen language, from the Language Lab to language clubs to conversing with native speakers during study abroad. The Clemson Language Immersion Program helps to enhance your language skills prior to studying abroad. The Bachelor of Arts in modern languages pairs well with other degrees for a double major. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY You will acquire communicative competence in your target language and study the relevant literary and cultural heritage. You’ll also take courses designed to deepen your understanding of cultural differences and sharpen your critical thinking skills. The Bachelor of Arts in modern languages provides a broadly humanistic course of study. In conjunction with your language classes, you will take a wide range of classes in the arts, humanities, social sciences, methodology and theory. All modern languages majors (except those studying American Sign Language) are required to study abroad with a Clemson-approved program. Students of Chinese, French, German, Italian or Japanese must study abroad for at least one semester. Students studying French and German need to study abroad for at least two semesters. Languages Offered American Sign Language Chinese French German Italian Japanese Spanish Curriculum Modern Languages: American Sign Language Emphasis, B.A Modern Languages: Chinese Emphasis, B.A. Modern Languages: French Emphasis, B.A. Modern Languages: German Emphasis, B.A. Modern Languages: Italian Emphasis, B.A. Modern Languages: Japanese Emphasis, B.A. Modern Languages: Spanish Emphasis, B.A. Popular Minors Political Science Psychology Economics Computer Science Biochemistry Similar Majors Communication (B.A.) English (B.A.) History (B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Majoring in modern languages is not just about practicing your target language in the classroom; it’s about immersing yourself in the culture, experience and country of the foreign language. Clemson offers opportunities for you to not only become intimately acquainted with your target language, but also to travel overseas and become a part of the language you choose to study. Travel Study abroad is critical and increasingly is expected by employers. Study abroad and exchange programs are offered in countries around the world, including Argentina, China, France, Germany, Japan, Russia and Spain. Language Lab The Language Lab offers additional opportunities to practice and advance your language skills with hands-on approaches to media and technology essential for your studies. Research Creative Inquiry is the combination of engaged learning and undergraduate research. Students take on problems that spring from their own curiosity or from the needs of the world around them. Team-based investigations are led by a faculty mentor.Learn More » Immersion Students enrolled in this summer school Language Immersion Program use their target language exclusively for five weeks during the summer. Students are immersed in the language in many ways, and will gain invaluable experience. Student Orgs Language clubs exist for each of the modern language programs. These organizations offer conversation tables, reading groups, films, socials, plays, outings and more. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Clubs and Societies Creative Inquiry AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% INTERNATIONAL CITIES Poitiers, France Huludao, China Costa Rica Japan RECENT EMPLOYERS Recruiter Aerotek Medstar Washington Hospital Administrative Coordinator Teacher Japan Exchange and Teaching (JET) Program USA ASL Interpreter Greenville County School District BMW RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.A. Asian Studies University of Texas at Austin M.S. Child Life University of Georgia MD University of South Carolina School of Medicine Greenville COMMON CAREER AREAS Government Diplomacy Civil Service Foreign Service Intelligence Interpretation Translation Law Medicine Education Linguistics Administration Counseling Social Work Health Services Nonprofit Arts, Media and Entertainment Advertising and Marketing Journalism and Broadcasting Writing and Editing Public and Media Relations Filmmaking Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jessica Garcia Recruiter jgarci6@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Modern Languages (B.A.) Communication (B.A.) English (B.A.) History (B.A.)