COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU Transcript Requests Section Menu Registrar Home Links for Faculty and Staff Links for Students Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) University Catalog Semester & Academic Calendars Schedule of Courses Residency Registration Final Exam Schedule Reactivation Transcripts Certifications Degree Works (degree audit) FAQ Diplomas Granting Student Record Access to Others (Proxy) Transfer to WSU Official WSU Transcript Requests A transcript is a certified copy of a student’s permanent academic record. It contains confidential information and cannot be released without the student’s signed, specific request. No requests will be taken over the phone. Transcript services are WITHHELD, with limited exceptions consistent with state and federal laws, for any student who owes Wichita State University money, property or documents. All transcript requests must be accompanied by a readable copy of the student’s myWSU ID or a government-issued photo identification such as a driver’s license or a passport. Requests will not be processed without this identification; this includes a person ordering a transcript in-person. Transcripts can only be released to the student or to an individual who has written permission from the student. Individuals picking up a transcript for a student must have a copy of the student's myWSU ID or a government-issued ID along with their own ID. Wichita State University's fee is $12.00 per transcript. Delivery Options Transcript Prices Electronic PDF Transcripts and Online Ordering Order a Transcript General Transcript FAQ WSU Explanation of Transcripts Free Transcripts - Free transcripts will be sent by USPS First Class Mail or can be picked up at 117 Jardine Hall. These transcripts cannot be ordered through our online ordering system. There is a limit of five free transcripts in each of the below circumstances: 1. Currently enrolled undergraduate seniors sending a transcript directly to a graduate school, law school, medical school or certifying agency like AMCAS. 2. Undergraduate seniors and graduate students in their final semester and with a submitted application for graduation - if the student waits until their degree has been posted to their record. Be sure to mark hold for degree on the request form. These requests must be submitted by: If you graduate in the Fall, requests must be submitted by April 15th. If you graduate in the Spring, requests must be submitted by September15th. If you graduate in the Summer, requests must be submitted by November 15th. Contact: Wichita State University Registrar's Office 1845 Fairmount Street Wichita, KS 67260-0058 Phone: (316) 978-3057 Fax: (316) 978-3795 Email: Transcripts.Out@wichita.edu Visit us: Jardine Hall, Room 117 Monday - Friday 8 a.m.-5 p.m. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©