Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Life at Penn / Penn & Philadelphia Penn & Philadelphia Get to know the City of Brotherly Love and Sisterly Affection and Penn’s place in it. City Guides City of Philadelphia The official website of the city government provides comprehensive information on topics ranging from recreation and the arts to education, employment, and housing. Greater Philadelphia Travel Guide (Visit Philly) The city’s visitor and tourism site, Visit Philadelphia, provides an extensive list of things to do, places to stay, and where to eat in the five counties that make up the Philadelphia region. Philadelphia Convention and Visitors Bureau The city’s global convention and visitors site provides information for travel professionals, meeting planners, and the hospitality industry, as well as news about upcoming special events. Campus Philly Find your fit, cultivate your community, and discover why Philadelphia is the best city ever to be a college student. uwishunu Tourism Blog Philadelphia’s go-to resource for finding out about what’s happening in and around the city. Sunny days and cool nights bring color to campus Fall on Penn’s campus, as ever, is awash in a majestic spread of gold, red, and orange. The beauty highlights the necessity of mitigating climate change, which could lead to less stunning foliar color. Learn More A unique but exemplary academic year A challenging yet successful year—Penn’s exceptional community of dedicated students, faculty, and staff overcame the world’s most significant obstacles to flourish, from outreach locally through volunteerism, to helping the world globally with mRNA technology. Learn More Hotels & Shopping Lodging on Campus The Inn at Penn and the Sheraton Philadelphia University City Hotel offer centrally located accommodations. Online Lodging Resources Find lodging online with Citysearch. Other Lodging Opportunities around Philadelphia Visit Penn Travel’s website for more information about securing lodging in and around Philadelphia. SHOP PENN Covering 10 city blocks across Penn’s campus are hundreds of retail shops, restaurants, and distinctly West Philly attractions for students and tourists alike. From quick grab-and-go meals to fine dining experiences, retail splurges or just the essentials, SHOP PENN is a great day trip or resource for the Penn community. 1 / 9 Previous Next Schuylkill River Path 2 / 9 Previous Next Philadelphia Art Museum, Photo by B. Krist for GPTMC 3 / 9 Previous Next Franklin Institute, photo by Visit Philadelphia 4 / 9 Previous Next Ben Franklin Bridge, photo by Visit Philadelphia 5 / 9 Previous Next Penn Park 6 / 9 Previous Next Citizens Bank Park, photo by Visit Philadelphia 7 / 9 Previous Next Odunde Festival, photo by Visit Philadelphia 8 / 9 Previous Next Reading Terminal Market, photo by Visit Philadelphia 9 / 9 Previous Next Ben Franklin Parkway, photo by Visit Philadelphia Explore Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement Diversity Groups & Organizations Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Penn & Philadelphia Safety & Security Spirituality & Religion Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top