By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Syracuse Abroad Florence In this Section First-Semester Option Florence, Italy Come study abroad in Florence, where the architecture, art, food, fashion, design and literature of the city will enrich your studies. The Syracuse center in Florence, known as the Villa Rossa, is a welcoming campus of five historic buildings and a lovely courtyard garden. Here, you can take courses toward your major and classes that feature site visits and field trips. You do not need to speak Italian to enroll at Syracuse Florence. Italian language or literature will be part of your coursework. First-semester study abroad available. Begin Your Application Syracuse Florence Courses Field study is central to many Syracuse Florence courses. You will engage with the art, history, business and evolving cultural identity of this renowned region. You can expect a curriculum that is rigorous, innovative and distinguished by the same exceptional standards that apply in every other aspect of a Syracuse University academic experience. Your Syracuse Florence courses may fulfill curricular requirements so you can stay on track to graduate on time. Explore a range of topics across disciplines at the center. Study in Depth Each Syracuse Abroad center offers depth in particular areas of study. At Syracuse Florence, these include: Architecture Visual and performing arts: design and studio arts Engineering European history and politics History of art Italian language, literature and culture Cross-cultural management and entrepreneurship Mediterranean food and culture Sustainability Gender and sexuality Diversity and cultural identity Wondering if Florence is the right fit for you? Refine your Syracuse Abroad options to discover the program that best fits your academic goals. Semester Programs Link Semester programs allow students to focus on Italian language, architecture, engineering, design and other specialty areas. Summer Programs Link The Florence Summer Session allows you to customize your program according to your interests and desire for exploration. To enhance your learning experience, most courses feature field trips and excursions within Florence and to locations outside the city. Internships are also available. (3-6 credits) Travel with a Purpose Link Join an optional 3-credit signature seminar, before or after the regular semester. Engage deeply with social, cultural and environmental issues facing Europe and the world today. At Home in Florence Link Your Syracuse Abroad experience is enhanced through your housing options. In Florence, most students live with a host family and experience authentic Italian lifestyle and culture. Apartments are also available for architecture students and select studio arts students. World Ready. Career Ready. Link An internship in Florence will allow you to apply classroom lessons to real work situations, explore career options and develop professional skills. Our on-site internship coordinator will work with you to find the placement that best suits your interests and qualifications through established relationships in many business sectors of Florence. Can I Afford to Study Abroad? Link Yes! We work with you to make studying abroad within reach. Your financial aid package may apply to study abroad, plus there are other assistance options, including scholarships, grants and awards. Connect with Syracuse Abroad through general advising sessions or program appointments. Drop-in or schedule a virtual or in-person advising session at SyracuseAbroad@Bird Monday-Friday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Or, schedule an appointment to meet with a Syracuse Abroad program advisor. View all advising options View all advising options. Featured Stories Becoming a Global Citizen Syracuse Abroad alumnus Alessandro Pugliese ’19 immersed himself in the culture and language of Italy during three semesters abroad. Related Pages Why Syracuse Abroad? Students from all over the world choose Syracuse Abroad for its academic excellence, unique programming and dedicated faculty and staff. Syracuse Abroad offers flexible study options and generous financial aid so you can build the knowledge and skills that will help you succeed anywhere. Requirements and Deadlines Ready to apply? Learn more about requirements, deadlines and what you need to begin your application. Information for Accepted Students Have you already been accepted into a study abroad program? Learn what steps you need to take next! Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy