Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Lyle Home Academics Academics Departments Advising Multidisciplinary Programs Distance Education Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Studies Research Research Research Opportunities Contact Us Centers & Institutes Centers & Institutes Hart Center Caruth Institute Hunt Institute Darwin Deason Institute Apply Now Apply Now Visit Lyle Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Resources FAQ's Connect with Us Alumni Alumni Lifelong Learning Alumni Program Support Lyle Industry Mentor Program Recruiting at Lyle Cox & Lyle Red Zone Tailgate on the Boulevard About Lyle About Lyle Our Namesake: Bobby B. Lyle Mission Statement Message from the Dean Dean's Office Faculty Directory 9 Things Every Lyle Student Should Know Job Opportunities Support Lyle Get in Touch ☰ Apply to Lyle Lyle Home Apply to Lyle Graduate Admissions Graduate Admissions SMU Lyle produces accomplished individuals, confident in their engineering knowledge, executive skills and strategic abilities. Lyle faculty brings together the world’s leading experts in the industry to carry out cutting-edge research. Lyle offers an extended classroom environment reaching beyond the traditional on-campus lecture to incorporate on-demand education to fit any lifestyle. At Lyle, we stay attuned to the best, most progressive innovators in technology and business through long-standing, established relationships with preeminent Fortune 100 and Fortune Global 500 corporations. Domestic Students International Students Graduate Programs Dallas, Texas Tuition & Fees Apply Domestic Students International Students Connect with us Have questions about applying to a Lyle Graduate Program? Reach out to us to speak with an admission advisor to discuss the program in more detail. One of our advisors can meet with you, chat with you on the phone, or meet with you via video conference. Contact us Graduate Admissions Graduate Programs Dallas, Texas Tuition & Fees Apply Domestic Students International Students Connect with Us School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus