Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Eating Well at Brown Supplements What exactly is meant by the term "nutrition supplements?" The word "supplement" means exactly that: a nutrient or group of nutrients (vitamins, minerals, protein, carbohydrates, fats and oils) that are meant to supplement, but not substitute for a healthy diet that you eat on a regular basis. Nutrition supplements come in a variety of forms: pills, capsules, powders, liquids, and even in gel form. The cost of nutrition supplements can range from almost "at cost" to being outrageously expensive. Should I be taking supplements? You probably don't need a general vitamin-mineral supplement if you are eating a reasonably varied diet most of the time, aren't restricting calories to lost weight, and generally don't skip meals. This doesn't mean you have to be a "perfect eater" - no one is! Taking extra supplements won't add extra energy. If you are fatigued because of a poor diet, only better nutrition can correct this problem. Being on a sleep-deprived schedule will require that you find a way to get more rest. Downing some B vitamins won't do the trick. Vitamins and minerals do not increase your appetite or cause weight gain. Some students take a multiple vitamin-mineral supplement as sort of an "insurance policy" if they can't be sure they are eating well a lot of the time. But keep in mind that a supplement can never make up for eating poorly. And a multiple vitamin mineral supplement is just that; it can't provide your needed protein, energy, carbohydrates, nor fiber. Only food can give you these needed nutrients. Don't some people need specific supplements? Sure. Because of allergies, certain medical conditions, or simply the inability to obtain needed nutrients on a regular basis, you may know people who have to take specific supplements. Calcium The recommendation for daily calcium intake for people from 19 to 50 years old is 1000 mg. What does this mean in terms of food? You need to get the equivalent of slightly more than 3, 8-oz.servings of dairy products or calcium-fortified equivalent foods per day. That may be quite a challenge, so we encourage you to try for at least 3 servings, and then add a calcium supplement. Calcium supplements are better absorbed from the intestine in the presence of lactose (the sugar of milk) and protein. Taking the calcium supplement with a glass of milk is ideal. Once the calcium gets absorbed into your bloodstream, your bones will take up the calcium better in the presence of vitamin D. That's why almost all dairy products and many calcium supplements are fortified with vitamin D. Other foods high in calcium that are absorbed well are calcium-fortified orange juice, tofu that is packaged in calcium brine, calcium-fortified cereals, and almonds. Easy ways to work in that extra calcium is to sprinkle cheese on your salad or baked potato, order lattes and cappuccinos if you drink coffee, or whip up a smoothie with low fat yogurt and fruit for a study break snack. A great buy for calcium as well as multiple vitamin and mineral supplements can be found at the Health Services pharmacy. It should be noted that most multiple vitamin-mineral supplements do not contain enough calcium to be used as calcium supplements. After your early 20's, your bones will have reached 90% of their "peak bone mass." ( Bone mass continues to develop until about age 30, however.) This means that if you are a woman, you will be carrying to menopause the density that your bones have accrued when you were much younger. Osteoporosis and bone fractures are becoming a very large problem for older women (and some men). The most important preventive measure you can do is to increase calcium intake now, along with regular "weight bearing exercise." Examples are walking, jogging, racket sports, Frisbee, and other activities in which your body weight is supported by your own bones. Working out with weight resistance exercise machines and free weights is also very helpful for increasing bone density, no matter what your age. Iron You may learn from having your blood tested by a medical provider that your iron levels are low. It is often recommended that you take iron supplements for awhile. Absorption of this iron will be increased if you take the iron along with an acidic food or juice (e.g., orange juice, tomato sauce, strawberries). Taking iron without food may upset the stomach. People may find that they are able to avoid the nausea sometimes associated with an iron supplement by taking it right before bed. Don't take a calcium supplement at the same time you take an iron supplement, since calcium can interfere with the body's ability to absorb iron. It is never advised to take iron supplements without medical advice just because you "feel tired." Fatigue can be caused by many things, including lack of adequate rest, depression, an imbalanced diet, effects of some medications, and several medical conditions. By taking iron supplements when you are not deficient in iron, you could actually be doing more harm to your health. Hemochromatosis is a genetic disorder predisposing individuals to a toxic build-up of iron. Because supplementation may accelerate the effects of this condition, adult men should avoid taking supplements that include iron. You might be alerted to possible iron deficiency when you try to donate blood and are turned away because of a low iron level. Always consult with a medical provider if you think you may be iron-deficient. Vitamin C If you are a heavy smoker, you may need as much as an extra 100 mg. of vitamin C per day (easily met by drinking an extra glass of orange juice, a large portion of broccoli, melon, or green pepper). Research has not convincingly shown whether or not extra vitamin C is helpful in warding off colds. It may help lessen the severity of a cold, however. Extra vitamin C is usually recommended around the time of surgery to aid in wound healing. Taking high amounts of vitamin C over a very long period of time can actually lead to "rebound scurvy," the deficiency disease of vitamin C. This is because the body can adapt to these extremely high levels. When one resumes a more normal intake, the body thinks it is then in a deficiency state (babies born to mothers who consume these very high levels during pregnancy sometimes develop this rebound scurvy after birth). Folate There has been recent concern that all women of childbearing age get adequate folate (a B vitamin) in their diets, in order to prevent some types of birth defects. Folate is also linked to heart disease prevention and may help prevent depression. Folate is easily found in foods such as fortified cereals, dried beans and legumes, dark green leafy vegetables (spinach, kale, broccoli), and orange juice. Are protein powder supplements necessary if I'm working out? Unfortunately, a lot of money is spent on protein supplements (usually in a powdered form), in the hopes that the protein consumed will go straight to the protein of your muscle. If it were only that easy, we could all save a lot of time in the gym! The body likes to take a more indirect route, however. Much of this high level of protein is actually converted to carbohydrates and fats in the body. Too much extra protein can put a burden on the kidneys, be dehydrating, and can cause calcium loss from the body. Your protein needs are usually met quite easily by a slight increase of protein in the diet. Most Brown students, unless they are restricting calories, get about 1-1/2 to 2 times the protein they need just with a regular diet. This is true for both vegetarians and meat-eaters. More details about eating for working out and various sports supplements can be found in the Nutrition Resources section. How do I know if herbal supplements are safe? This is a difficult question to answer, because there are no federal regulations that standardize quality of ingredients contained in these products. Additionally, no testing is done on the actual products that you see on the shelves in stores. You therefore lack assurance that what is stated to be true on a supplement label even resembles what you are getting. The lobbying influence of the nutrition supplement industry in Washington is very strong, and past efforts to get any type of labeling legislation passed has failed. Additionally, few long-term, reliable studies have been done on most herbal and "natural" products. There is often very little information on food-herbal, drug-herbal, and multiple herbal-herbal interactions. Of particular importance for women is that if you are pregnant or breast-feeding, you should not use any dietary supplement without the advice of your physician. Where does all this leave you, as the consumer? Perhaps the most important thing you can do is to try to stay informed about which products are potentially harmful (the most important factor when deciding to use supplements), which might be fairly neutral, and which might actually do some good, if taken in sensible amounts. Two excellent and reliable books that you might want to explore in this area: Sarubin, Allison, MS, RD, The Health Professional's Guide to Popular Dietary Supplements. The American Dietetic Assn., Chicago. 2006. (The 2000 edition may be checked out from the Health Education Library) Foster, Steven, and Varro E. Tyler, Ph.D., Tyler's Honest Herbal. A Sensible Guide to the Use of Herbs and Related Remedies. 4th Ed. Haworth Herbal Press, New York. 1999. (May be accessed in the Health Education Office; not for loan) You can also use the links below for more information. Related Links Consumerlab.com This web site provides independent test results and information to help consumers and health care professionals evaluate health, wellness, and nutrition products (by brand name). You can sign up for newsletters. Health and nutrition products tested include: herbal products, vitamins, minerals, other supplements, sports and energy products, functional foods, foods and beverages, and personal care products. Food and Drug Administration The FDA has a user-friendly web site that contains "Frequently Asked Questions" about food supplements. Office of Dietary Supplements The National Institutes of Health Office of Dietary Supplements has a web site that offers a comprehensive overview of nutrition supplements as well as a listing of new studies and safety issues. Gatorade Sports Science Institute This site has articles by experts in exercise science, sports nutrition, supplements and "ergogenic aids" for athletes. Other topics include hydration and sports psychology. American Botanical Council This organization works to educate the public about beneficial herbs and plants and to promote the safe and effective use of medicinal plants. National Center on Complementary and Alternative Medicine NCCAM is part of the National Institutes of Health and is dedicated to exploring complementary and alternative health practices in the context of rigorous science. The A-Z index allows you to search for a particular treatment or therapy. Topic areas include acupuncture, vitamin supplements and ayurvedic medicine. Discovery Health The alternative medicine center of Discovery Health has information on supplements, a Drug Interaction Center and articles on certain herbal medicines. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-3558 Nutrition Appointment Line 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Intuitive Eating? Intuitive Eating is an evidence-based, mind-body health approach, comprised of 10 Principles and created by two dietitians, Evelyn Tribole and Elyse Resch in 1995. It is a weight-neutral model with a validated assessment scale and over 90 studies to date (Tribole 2017). It’s thrilling to see all the research and gives me great hope. Intuitive Eating is a dynamic integration between mind and body. The principles work by either cultivating or removing obstacles to body awareness, a process known as interoceptive awareness. Essentially, Intuitive Eating is a personal process of honoring health by listening and responding to the direct messages of the body in order to meet your physical and psychological needs. by Evelyn Tribole, MS, RDN, CEDRD-S Read more about intuitive eating What is The Health at Every SizeⓇ Approach? The framing for a Health At Every Size (HAES®) approach comes out of discussions among healthcare workers, consumers, and activists who reject both the use of weight, size, or BMI as proxies for health, and the myth that weight is a choice. The HAES model is an approach to both policy and individual decision-making. It addresses broad forces that support health, such as safe and affordable access. It also helps people find sustainable practices that support individual and community well-being. The HAES approach honors the healing power of social connections, evolves in response to the experiences and needs of a diverse community, and grounds itself in a social justice framework. by the Association for Size Diversity and Health (ASDAH) Read about the HAESⓇ Principles Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook