Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News You are here Home > Research > Clinical Trials Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Clinical Trials The College of Dental Medicine is improving oral health through innovative, multidisciplinary research that involves developing and testing ground-breaking treatment strategies for patients dental issues. Clinical trials help us translate our research into patient care. List of clinical trials actively recruiting patients Volumetric Changes Associated with Immediate Implant Placement and Bio-Oss Collagen: A Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial The purpose of the study is to evaluate the soft and hard tissue dimensional changes in the esthetic zone after extraction of teeth in combination with placement of a dental implant that is immediately loaded with a provisional restoration. In addition, the impact of placing a graft material (Bio-Oss Collagen®, Geistlich Pharma AG) into the gap between the implant and the labial plate of bone will be evaluated. 32 subjects will have an immediate dental implant placed in the maxillary anterior region (#4-12) after extraction of a hopeless tooth. 16 subjects will be randomly selected to receive Bio-Oss Collagen ® (Test group) and 16 subjects will have no graft (Control group) in the gap between the implant and the labial plate of bone. Patients will be followed for one year and dimensional changes will be recorded. Sponsor: Geistlich Pharma AG Study recruitment: closed Stage of Study: follow-up period Bone-Implant Contact after Maxillary Sinus Augmentation with Two Different Biomaterials Study Design: This study is designed as a randomized, controlled split-mouth study in patients who require bilateral sinus augmentation. It aims to characterize bone formation and remodeling after maxillary sinus augmentation and simultaneous implant placement. This is a randomized, controlled split-mouth study to compare bone formation around microimplants (SuperLine, Dentium) with a sandblasted, large grit, acid etched (SLA) surface placed at the time of maxillary sinus floor augmentation with a synthetic material (Hydroxylapatite scaffolds coated with ß-tricalcium phosphate, Osteon TM, Dentium) and deproteinized bovine bone (Bio-Oss®, Osteohealth). We will include patients who require bilateral sinus augmentation (n=15) and graft one side with synthetic material and the other with bovine bone. Microimplants will be placed vertically from the alveolar crest at the time of sinus augmentation, penetrating residual bone and the grafting material. After 6-8 months of healing, microimplants will be retrieved together with surrounding bone for histological analysis and dental implants placed simultaneously. Implants will be restored 2-3 months later. Sponsor: Dentium, USA Study recruitment: closed Stage of Study: follow-up period In Vivo Assessment of Optical Efficacy of Pink Neck Implant And Pink Abutment on Soft Tissue Esthetics Esthetic results with dental implants are usually predictable, however cases where the gums and the bone are too thin, can present an esthetic challenge. In these cases, the metallic dental implant can show through the thin gums, producing a grayish unesthetic look to the gums around the implant crown. This study evaluates the use of a pink colored neck implant and pink post named Genesis by Keystone Dental. Healthy patients that have an unrestorable upper front tooth will be randomized to receive either a pink implant or a conventional implant to replace the broken tooth. Color measurements of the gums around the implant, will be compared between pink and conventional gray implants. Sponsor: Keystone Dental, Inc. Study recruitment: closed Stage of study: follow-up period An Open, Prospective, Randomized, Multicenter Study Comparing Osseospeed™ Plus With Osseospeed™ Tx In Partially Edentulous Maxillae And Mandibles: A 5-Year Follow-Up Study This study is being carried out to evaluate the long term healing of the bone around two dental implants (OsseoSpeedTM Plus and OsseoSpeedTM TX). Both implants are manufactured by Dentsply implants. The OsseoSpeedTM Plus implant is a further development of the OsseoSpeed TX implant, the modifications are designed to give more stability to the new implant. Approximately 120 subjects will take part at six different dental clinics in Europe, Canada and the USA. Participants will be divided randomly into two groups, half will receive OsseoSpeed Plus and the other half will receive OsseoSpeed TX dental implants. All subjects will be followed for up to five years, in order to measure the bone level around the implant and the survival of the implants as well. Sponsor: Astra Tech (Please note: Astra Tech was acquired by Dentsply in 2011). Study recruitment: closed Stage of study: follow-up period A Retrospective Multicenter Study Evaluating ATLANTIS™ Abutments on Implants from Four Manufacturers Dental implants are restored with an abutment (post) that holds a crown. ATLANTIS abutments are made to fit different implant companies. These abutments are tested to make sure they present clinical properties to endure the oral environment. This study is being done to evaluate the long-term performance of ATLANTIS abutments used with different implants, after being in function in patient’s mouths for one year or more. Approximately 120 subjects will take part at six different dental clinics in USA. Study recruitment: closed Stage of study: follow-up period Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top