Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Professional & Continuing Education Continuing Education right arrow down arrow Contact Us OLLI right arrow down arrow About OLLI right arrow down arrow Locations Contact Us History, Mission & Vision Board of Trustees FAQs Classes & Registration Member Resources right arrow down arrow Member Handbook Class Handouts Teach for OLLI right arrow down arrow Moderator Info and Resources Support right arrow down arrow OLLI Donors Communiversity right arrow down arrow COURSES right arrow down arrow Arts & Handicrafts right arrow down arrow Floral Arranging Beginning Stained Glass Frame Loom Weaving Mosaics Wire Jewelry: Earrings Drawing Comics Learn to Crochet Art History at CAM Candlemaking Industrial Sewing Intro to Stained Glass Learn to Knit 1 & 2 Sketchbook Workshop Woodworking Computerized Woodworking Soldering & Circuits Laser Cutting & Engraving Soap Making Embroidery Summer Anklet Jewelry Mixed Media Acrylic Painting Color Mixing Intro to Watercolor Paint the Masters: Monet Paint the Masters: Renoir Paint the Masters: Van Gogh Painting Your Pet's Portrait Plein Air Painting Watercolor Florals Drawing Level 1 & 2 Music & Dance right arrow down arrow Ukulele : Level 1 & 2 Guitar: Level 1 & 2 Argentine Tango Dance Fiddling: Level 1 & 2 Mandolin: Level 1 & 2 Country Two-Step Wedding Dance Workshop Belly Dance Special Interest & History right arrow down arrow Cincinnati's Lost Architects Detective Series: 60s Murders History of FBI Cincinnati Chili Pyramid Hill Riding Tour Civil War: Morgan's Raid Cincinnati Mural Tour Photography right arrow down arrow Smartphone Photography 1 & 2 Photography: Level 1 & 2 Intermediate Photography Photo Retouching Fitness & Health right arrow down arrow Tai Chi Zumba & Bootcamp Lite Posture: Alexander Technique Belly Dancing Personal Development right arrow down arrow Insight Meditation Introduction to Voice Overs Makeup for Summer Journaling for Stress Relief How to Buy a Used Car Improv! Acting Personal Colors for Fashion Create Life You Love Personal Energy System Astrology Birthchart Care for Aging Skin Angel Cards Workshop Food & Drink right arrow down arrow Mozzarella Cheese Making Soft Cheese Making Sourdough Bread Making Winemaking at Home Feta Cheese Making Bourbon History & Tasting Home & Garden right arrow down arrow Organize Your Home Cactus & Succulent Centerpiece Staghorn Fern Wall Art Terrarium Lamps DIY Home Repairs Spring Ornithology Native Plant Tour Moss & Air Fern Wall Art Growing an Herb Garden Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Language right arrow down arrow Spanish: Level 1 Italian Level 1 & 2 Discover Sign Language Conversational French German: Level 1 & 2 English as a Second Language Sports right arrow down arrow Golf for All Levels Nature & Science right arrow down arrow Behind the Scenes at the Observatory Spring Birdwatching Cincinnati Moundbuilders Native Plant Tour Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Plants of Ohio Business & Finance right arrow down arrow Basic Computer Skills Financial Literacy Job Search Estate Planning Buying Your First Home Real Estate Investment Gift Certificates Travel right arrow down arrow Travel Health Travel Solo for Women Travel in Italy Lifelong Learning Online Ways to Register Location of Courses Frequently Asked Questions Suggest a Class Class Evaluation Teach a Class Test Prep right arrow down arrow LSAT TOEFL GRE/GMAT ACT SAT MCAT College Essay Writing CompTIA® Certification Prep Continuing Education for Teachers right arrow down arrow Arlitt Professional Educator Learning Series (APELS) Gifted Education Professional Development K-12 Blended & Beyond Teaching Learning Series Remote Teaching Learning Webinars Professional Development right arrow down arrow Healthcare & Fitness right arrow down arrow NASM Certified Personal Trainer Pharmacy Technician Certified Physical Therapy Aide Certified Nutrition Coach Business Management & Operations right arrow down arrow Lean Six Sigma Call Center Supervisor Certified Administrative Professional HVAC/R Training Marketing Technology Skills & Applications right arrow down arrow Adobe Certification Courses Microsoft Excel Google IT Support IT Fundamentals ITIL v4 Framework DevOps Certification Autodesk Revit Microsoft Power Platform School of IT: Tech Workforce Development right arrow down arrow Azure Cloud Technology Cybersecurity Bootcamp Networking Bootcamp Microsoft Excel Certification Project Management Certification (CAPM®) IMAP - Microcredentials Aspire Talent Acceleration Program right arrow down arrow For Employer Partners For Adult Learners Student Resources Home » About UC » Office of Professional and Continuing Education » Teacher Professional Development » K-12 Blended & Beyond Teaching Learning Series Set Navigation title in component Arlitt Professional Educator Learning Series (APELS) Gifted Education Professional Development K-12 Blended & Beyond Teaching Learning Series Remote Teaching Learning Webinars K-12 Blended & Beyond Teaching Learning Series UC's School of Education is the home of teacher licensure, undergraduate and graduate programs in the College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services (CECH). About This Series The K-12 Blended & Beyond K-12 Teaching Series has been developed to help teachers and administrators strengthen blended learning and alternate learning modalities needed to successfully teach today. Courses are designed to be convenient for you: Asynchronous learning that includes live office hours and coaching with your instructor. Attend when you’re ready with rolling enrollment dates and new classes starting monthly. The choice to extend class completion time to submit your portfolio. Please contact us for next class dates by emailing to: ce@uc.edu Courses: Digital Design for the Classroom right arrow down arrow This course will give you practice using simple digital tools to build blended learning resources to increase students’ receptivity to instructional content. At the end of this course, you will have gained new techniques you can apply immediately to your classroom instruction. You will also have the opportunity to evaluate your current content plan and classroom resources with the support and valuable feedback from UC educator and professional instructional designer, Sarah Schroeder. 20 Hours, 2 CEU. Please contact us for next class dates by emailing to: ce@uc.edu Register Improving Engagement in Blended Environments right arrow down arrow Define and examine engagement using Universal Design for Learning and ISTE standards. Together, we will evaluate instructional strategies for cognitive engagement and evaluate the use of digital tools for engagement vs. entertainment. You will redesign your own instructional practices to remove barriers to engagement and improve higher order thinking. 20 Hours, 2 CEU. Please contact us for next class dates by emailing to: ce@uc.edu Getting Ready for Google Certification right arrow down arrow Move through targeted practice to prepare you for the Google Certified Educator exams. Ask questions and receive support for Google Suite tools covered on the educator exam. 10 Hours, 1 CEU. Please contact us for next class dates by emailing to: ce@uc.edu Visual Literacy: Decoding Images and Video for Learning right arrow down arrow Learn how to apply visual literacy practices in your classroom and examine the connection between images, emotions, engagement and memory. Learn easy tools for creating your own video entry events to use in instruction, and examine tools and examples for student creation of simple video projects. 10 Hours, 1 CEU. Please contact us for next class dates by emailing to: ce@uc.edu UDL for Design of Blended Learning right arrow down arrow Check your understanding of Universal Design for Learning basics while examining the myth of designing for the “average” learner. Dig into how to use digital tools and resources to provide multiple means of engagement, representation and action and expression in blended environments. 20 Hours, 2 CEU. Please contact us for next class dates by emailing to: ce@uc.edu Hosting Meaningful Live Remote Meetings right arrow down arrow Looking for that balance of community building and learning in your live meetings? Wondering how to use digital tools to create active learning in Zoom, Google Meet and other live meeting tools? Evaluate, try strategies and tools and share best practices for live remote meetings. 10 hours / 1 CEU. Please contact us for next class dates by emailing to: ce@uc.edu Rethinking Assessment: Reduce Grading, Increase Engagement right arrow down arrow How can digital tools help us increase student ownership in our classrooms and at the same time reduce time spent grading? Think beyond essays and tests while examining a range of assessments that can be used in blended classrooms to collect data and demonstrate student learning. Evaluate examples of formative and summative assessments, build digital choice boards, and practice giving meaningful feedback. 20 Hours, 2 CEU. Please contact us for next class dates by emailing to: ce@uc.edu Planning Blended Learning When You Don’t Know What to Plan For right arrow down arrow Communication, assessments, digital tool use, and more can be planned ahead to support learning in any environment. We know that some blend of online and face-to-face learning will meet us in the fall. Learn how to prepare blended learning to be ready for whatever next year throws at us. Build and receive feedback on your plan for next year and learn from exemplars in the field of blended learning.20 Hours / 2 CEU. Please contact us for next class dates by emailing to: ce@uc.edu Empathy in Instructional Design right arrow down arrow Learn why designing for the end user (hint: it’s not you.)improves everyone’s experience in the blended or remote environment. Practice building blended learning components that promote empathy in your learners as well. 10 hours / 1 CEU. Please contact us for next class dates by emailing to: ce@uc.edu Sarah E Schroeder Associate Professor - Field Service, CECH Instructional Design & Technology 615L Teachers College 513-556-0237 schroesd@ucmail.uc.edu Sarah Schroeder is an instructional designer and educator passionate about the creation of engaging, relevant e-learning solutions. Passionate about understanding learner diversity and designing the way our brains work, Sarah believes in the success of all learners and empowering them to do more vs. simply learn more. As a faculty member, Sarah coordinates the Digital Learning Design certificate program for undergraduate students and connects UC learners with community partners. She also teaches courses related to educational technology and online learning, and supports faculty course development. Sarah is an ISTE certified educator, a certified Quality Matters facilitator and master reviewer, a graduate of the Educause Educational Technology Leadership Institute, and has supported grant-funded development of blended learning solutions for K-12 districts. During the recent pandemic, Sarah and her students have supported blended and online learning development for local districts. Outside of UC, Sarah provides consulting services, coaching and professional devlopmet for K-12, non-profit, corporate and higher education organizations. Before joining the University of Cincinnati, Sarah was a faculty member in the Department of Communication at Northern Kentucky University, an Instructional Designer in Northern Kentucky University's Center for Innovation and Technology in Education, and a professional diversity educator. Sarah received her BA in education from Indiana University and her MS in Communication from the University of Cincinnati. View Full Profile University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top