Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Commencement News UCF Med School’s Historic Milestone — 10th Graduating Class UCF’s medical school has now graduated 956 doctors and has gained a national reputation for its excellence, innovation and pioneering spirit as it helps build an emerging Medical City at Lake Nona. 2022 UCF Medical Grad Putting Service at Forefront in Medicine As part of the UCF College of Medicine’s 10th graduating class, Michael Chiang ’20MS is the first Knight to earn a dual degree in medicine and hospitality. Former Foster Care Child, Now Mother of 3 Reaches Goal of Becoming Teacher Recent spring graduate Jeanette Marie Reynoso shares her unlikely path to achieving her dream. Makers of the Next New Worlds: UCF’s First Themed Experience Cohort Graduates The first graduating class from UCF’s themed experience track in the theatre Master of Fine Arts program is prepared to create lands and parks that we can only imagine. UCF’s First Anthropology Ph.D. Graduate Looks Forward to Career Jane Holstrom, the inaugural graduate in the integrative anthropological sciences doctorate degree, specializes in studying remains in France. Fulbright Scholar, Indonesia Native Graduating from UCF with Degree in TESOL As an international master’s student Endah Setya Ningsih says faculty at UCF have inspired her to support students from various social-cultural backgrounds. UCF’s First Ph.D. in Big Data Analytics Walks the Commencement Stage This Week Patrick (Phuong) Pho ’18MS says the sky is the limit with a Ph.D. in big data analytics, which is used for everything from recommending local restaurants to accelerating medical research. Graduating Nonprofit Management Student Gives Back by Establishing New Scholarship Sean Farrell and his wife, Valerie, created the Farrell Nonprofit Opportunity Scholarship to help undergraduate nonprofit management students. UCF Student to Conduct Research at Mayo Clinic After Graduation Biomedical sciences student Justin Barthel has spent his time at UCF pursuing excellence in scholarship, research and service while working on his goal of becoming a physician. Mother of 4, Specialized Education Advocate to Graduate from UCF Spring commencement, Mother’s Day, and National Barriers Day fall on the same weekend this year, which is an appropriate way to introduce Christine Parsons ’17. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida