Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home Graduate Admissions Columbia Engineering offers you the opportunity to become a leader in your profession, learning from professors shaping the world of tomorrow. As one of the nation’s oldest and most distinguished schools of engineering and applied science — in one of the world’s most renowned universities — we offer an academic program steeped in history and committed to innovation. In addition, your learning takes place on a campus in the heart of one of the world’s most exciting and cosmopolitan cities. Explore the information below to begin your academic journey with Columbia Engineering. Take a walk back through history to see some of the milestones and achievements that made The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science the institution it is today. test video Application Requirements Review this information before beginning your graduate application to Columbia Engineering. MORE Apply Explore the options available to pursue a Master of Science, Doctoral, or Certificate program at Columbia Engineering. MORE Admissions Events Learn more about Columbia Engineering by joining us for an event. MORE Campus Tours Join us on a campus tour designed for prospective Columbia Engineering graduate students. MORE Frequently Asked Questions A collection of answers to common questions students ask about graduate admission. MORE Graduate Funding Opportunities Columbia Engineering is proud to offer funding opportunities that advance our mission. MORE Tuition and Financial Aid The Office of Student Financial Planning is committed to working with students to finance their graduate education at The Fu Foundation School of Engineering & Applied Science. MORE Visit Us The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science welcomes prospective students to visit us virtually. MORE Brochures Thank you for your interest in Columbia Engineering! Please see below to learn more about our many graduate programs. MORE Request Information To receive information about Columbia Engineering graduate programs of study and updates about applying for admission, complete our prospective student form. Prospective Student Form Follow Us! Connect with us on social media to see what's happening on-campus and learn more about our office. Facebook Instagram Twitter Fellowships Explore various research opportunities and external fellowships. Fellowship Opportunities Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University