Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Graduate School Menu About Graduate School Calendar Staff Directory J. Larry Lyon Beth Allison Barr Steve G. Driese Christopher M. Rios Sheila Dooley Sandra B. Harman Anna E. Henderson Tosha A. Hendrickson Eric Hooley Alanna D. Martinez Dana Matthews Alana A. Schaeper Laura Sepanski 2020 Annual Report Admissions COVID-19 Admissions Updates How To Apply Apply Now International: English Proficiency International: Required Documents FAQs Admissions FAQs Admitted Students Additional Information for Admitted International Students Graduate Student Housing Community Moving to Waco Admitted Student FAQs New Graduate Student Orientation 2022 Submitting Test Scores Degrees & Programs Graduate Catalog Baylor Colleges and Schools Benefits & Financial Support Health Insurance Benefits Childbirth & Adoption Short-Term Leave Baylor Funding Opportunities Student Resources Graduate School Deadlines Campus Resources Professional Development All Programs and Workshops On-Campus Research Doctoral Programs On-Campus Master's Programs Online Professional Programs Awards and Funding Opportunities Summer Dissertation Fellowship Doctoral Administrative Fellows Baptist Scholars International Roundtable (BSIR) Baptist College and University Scholars Outstanding Dissertation Award Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Award Outstanding Graduate Research Award BEAR Grants Travel Awards McNair Doctoral Fellowship Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship External Funding Resources Dr. Steven G. Driese Outstanding Grant Proposal Award Completing Your Degree Dissertation & Thesis Resources Requirements for Graduation Completing Your Degree FAQs Faculty & Staff Resources General Resources English for Academic Purposes Program GPS Faculty Development Workshops Graduate Council Graduate Curriculum Committee Graduate Faculty Rights and Membership Proposing a New Graduate Degree Search Grad Faculty Graduate Student Payroll Graduate Program Directors GPD Listing Program Director Statement Resources for Directors Recruitment and Admissions Recruiting Funds Slate Log In Baylor>Graduate School>Benefits & Financial Support>Short-Term Leave Short-Term Leave Accommodation Short-Term Leave Policy Graduate students suffering from a serious medical condition may apply for short-term medical leave from their academic and assistantship responsibilities. Either the graduate students or their graduate program directors (on behalf of their graduate student) may apply for this emergency leave. For purposes of this policy, “serious medical condition” is defined as a medical condition that requires a multiple-day hospitalization OR renders the graduate student unable to engage in coursework and other Graduate School-related duties for a period of at least ten (10) calendar days. The Graduate School requires verification by a health care professional that the student needs short-term leave because of a serious medical condition as defined by this policy that affects the student’s ability to do their work. The duration of the leave will be as certified by the health care professional up to a maximum of six weeks or to the end of the current academic term—whichever comes first. Graduate students will remain enrolled and receive their stipend for the duration of the accommodation. Students assistantship duties will be reassigned as necessary. If students are unable to complete the academic work by the end of the semester, they may receive incompletes for courses in which they are enrolled and follow the normal university policy for resolving the incompletes. Graduate students returning from a short-term medical release must verify with their GPD that they have been released from short-term leave. Procedures As soon as the need arises, students or their graduate program director should contact the Graduate School and complete the following process: Step One: The student or Graduate Program Director will notify the Graduate School (graduate_records@baylor.edu) that a serious medical condition has arisen (see explanation above). With HIPAA privacy concerns in mind, please note that the GPD and the Graduate School do not need to know the nature of the condition, only that a need as arisen. Step Two: Student or graduate program director should complete the online form. The statement of support from a medical professional may be uploaded through the form or emailed to the Graduate School. Again, with HIPAA privacy concerns in mind, please note that the GPD and the Graduate School do not need to know the nature of the condition, only that a need meeting the definitions of this policy as arisen. Once approved, the student and GPD will be notified. During the span of the accommodation (no more than six weeks), the department will pay the student for work served as normal. Any enhancement funds (fellowships) will be paid in the usual ways, without interruption or deduction. Step Three: Additional Graduate School Support. If needed, the Graduate Program Director may request from the Graduate School funding to cover the hiring of another graduate student to replace the accommodated student for the leave period. This request should be made through the online form linked in step two or by contacting Anna Henderson in the Graduate School. All correspondence to the Graduate School regarding the short-term leave accommodation should be directed to Dr. Chris Rios and/or Alana Schaeper. Benefits & Financial Support Health Insurance Benefits Childbirth & Adoption Short-Term Leave Baylor Funding Opportunities Baylor Graduate School Baylor Graduate School Morrison Hall, Suite 200 One Bear Place #97264 Waco, TX 76798-7264 (254) 710-3588 (254) 710-3870 GraduateAdmissions@baylor.edu Live Chat ApplyVisitMake a Gift General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Graduate School Calendar Staff Directory J. Larry Lyon Beth Allison Barr Steve G. Driese Christopher M. Rios Sheila Dooley Sandra B. Harman Anna E. Henderson Tosha A. Hendrickson Eric Hooley Alanna D. Martinez Dana Matthews Alana A. Schaeper Laura Sepanski 2020 Annual Report Admissions COVID-19 Admissions Updates How To Apply Apply Now International: English Proficiency International: Required Documents FAQs Admissions FAQs Admitted Students Additional Information for Admitted International Students Graduate Student Housing Community Moving to Waco Admitted Student FAQs New Graduate Student Orientation 2022 Submitting Test Scores Degrees & Programs Graduate Catalog Baylor Colleges and Schools Benefits & Financial Support Health Insurance Benefits Childbirth & Adoption Short-Term Leave Baylor Funding Opportunities Student Resources Graduate School Deadlines Campus Resources Professional Development All Programs and Workshops On-Campus Research Doctoral Programs On-Campus Master's Programs Online Professional Programs Awards and Funding Opportunities Summer Dissertation Fellowship Doctoral Administrative Fellows Baptist Scholars International Roundtable (BSIR) Baptist College and University Scholars Outstanding Dissertation Award Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Award Outstanding Graduate Research Award BEAR Grants Travel Awards McNair Doctoral Fellowship Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship External Funding Resources Dr. Steven G. Driese Outstanding Grant Proposal Award Completing Your Degree Dissertation & Thesis Resources Requirements for Graduation Completing Your Degree FAQs Faculty & Staff Resources General Resources English for Academic Purposes Program GPS Faculty Development Workshops Graduate Council Graduate Curriculum Committee Graduate Faculty Rights and Membership Proposing a New Graduate Degree Search Grad Faculty Graduate Student Payroll Graduate Program Directors GPD Listing Program Director Statement Resources for Directors Recruitment and Admissions Recruiting Funds Slate Log In