COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Accessibility Training Section Menu Accessibility at Wichita State University The Accessibility Committee Accessibility Report 2020 Accessibility For Face To Face Instruction Accessibility for Online Instruction Accessibility Training WSU Technology Audit Request Form EIT Corrective Action Strategy WSU Technology Corrective Action Strategy PDFs At WSU Looking Ahead Report an Accessibility Problem Resources and Links Faculty Senate Statement on Accessibility Accessibility Exceptions Is this Accessible? Accessibility FAQ Aira Access Accessible Publisher Software Accessibility Review Requests Aira Access at Wichita State Accessibility and Covid-19 Accessibility Report 2020 Instructor Accessibility Checklist WSU offers a variety of trainings for faculty and staff that address accessibility. Ability Ally Training The Ability Ally training is a two-hour face to face training that provides an introduction to accessibility appropriate for all faculty and staff. Click here to enroll in Ability Ally training. Ability Ally Training - Online The Ability Ally Online Training is an online alternative to the Ability Ally Training. Ability Ally Digital Credential Online Participants have the opportunity to earn the Ability Ally Digital Credential. In order to receive this credential, bearers must have worked through introductory material covering universal design for learning, accessibility, and disability awareness and have scored at least 85% on all assessments in the training materials. This digital credential is optional and represents extra effort on the part of the bearer. Foundations of Accessibility Training The Foundations of Accessibility training is a blackboard course designed to train instructional staff in the techniques and philosophies of universal design that address and satisfy our need to create and offer accessible instruction to all students. The training is self-paced, delivered online, and addresses the expectations for accessible instruction, provides training and resources to meet those expectations. Foundations of Accessibility Digital Credential Participants in the Foundations of Accessibility course have the opportunity to earn the Foundations of Accessibility Digital Credential. Bearers have demonstrated superior understanding of higher education accessibility in the following areas: Law UDL philosophy Distinction between accessibility and accommodations Face-to-face instruction Digital instruction Digital documents Other digital material including videos Textbooks and other publisher materials This training is provided to all instructional staff at WSU through blackboad, and to others upon request. To request this training, contact ida@wichita.edu. Additional Training and Resources Additional training in specific areas, like Accessible PDF creation, are coming, and will be linked here. Accessibility Challenges Part 1 and Part 2 - A discussion of accessibility challenges with links to supportive resources. FaST Accessibility (Online, On-demand training videos and resources from IDT) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©