Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Facilities Management University Event and Conference Services Show/Hide Services Event Management Virtual Events For Brown Departments For Other Organizations & Individuals Event Support Fees & Labor Rates Related Services Events Toolkit Virtual Events Planning Guide Step by Step Planning Guide Facilities Fees & Labor Rates Visiting Guest and Dignitaries Campus Event Venues Campus Partners Commencement Departmental Ceremonies Events Policies Postering and Publicity About Us Staff See What We Do Virtual Event Gallery Volunteer with us Contact Us Presidential Host Program Planon Fees, Rates and Policies Our Fees, Rates and Policies STUDENT GROUPS: Please meet with the Student Activities Office to plan your event. The information that follows only pertains to departments at Brown. DELIVERY FEES Effective January 16, 2022 Due to temporary fuel surcharges assessed by our vendors, delivery fees will increase to $130, per delivery, through the end of the Spring semester on all equipment orders (such as tables, chairs, risers, coatracks, AV, sound systems, etc.) from our preferred outside vendors. There may be exceptions. Please email [email protected] or call x3-7820 for more information. Call for pricing on delivery rates for the following times: Delivery Sunday-Saturday (5:00AM to 11:00PM) Delivery Time Specific/less than 2 hours Delivery Sunday-Saturday (11:00PM to 5:00AM) and holidays EXPEDITING FEE An Expediting Fee of $150 will be assessed on all orders placed less than 10 calendar days before the start of the event. GREENS FEES Effective August 30, 2015 A Greens Fee will be assessed for events having tents which are more than 350 sq. ft. in size. This fee will help to restore the greens to the beautiful condition in which they can be enjoyed by all. The fee will be 5% of the total square footage of the tent (or tents) with a cap at $500. CANCELLATION POLICY Cancellations must be received in writing via email to [email protected]. Events cancelled less than 48 business hours prior to the beginning of an event (not including Saturday and Sunday) will incur a $50 cancellation fee. (Additional fees may be assessed based on actual pre-committed costs.). Exceptions to this policy, due to unavoidable circumstances (such as storm closures, etc.) will be respected. CHANGE POLICY Changes must be received in writing via email to [email protected]. Changes requested less than 48 business hours prior to the beginning of an event (not including Saturday and Sunday) will incur a $50 expediting change fee. (Additional fees may be assessed based on actual pre-committed costs.). Exceptions to this policy, due to unavoidable circumstances (such as storm closures, etc.) will be respected. ROOM RENTAL FEES Room rental fees are not assessed to events or programs co-sponsored by a University department who is to covering expenses for the event. Events or programs sponsored by an organization that is external to the Brown community will be assessed room rental fees. Room rental fees vary based on the size and scope of a program. UNION LABOR RATES Effective September 1, 2019 Rates are subject to periodic changes. Technician labor is billed at an hourly rate which includes travel, set-up and strike-down time. Currently the hourly rates are as follows: Carpentry - Division 1 $74.52 Electrical - Division 3 $87.01 Custodial - Division 4 $66.60 Set Up/Trucking - Division 4 $66.60 Grounds - Division 5 $69.12 HVAC - Division 8 $79.10 Controls - Division 9 $91.53 Division 10 $76.84 A 2 hour minimum may apply during evening, weekend and holiday assignments. *Overtime constitutes any time after 3:00pm on a regular business weekday, all weekends and holidays. Event Support Request Event Management Inquiry Virtual Events Planning Guide Step by Step Planning Guide Facilities Fees & Labor Rates Visiting Guest and Dignitaries Campus Event Venues Campus Partners Commencement Departmental Ceremonies Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of University Event & Conference Services Brown University 295 Lloyd Ave., Box 1941 Providence, RI 02912 Conferences & Event Support: Phone: (401) 863-3100 Fax: (401) 863-1943 Office Hours: 8:30AM-5:00PM FM Home Maps Feedback Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat