Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Physical Health Meningitis What is meningitis? Meningitis is an infection that can lead to a dangerous swelling of the fluid surrounding the brain and spinal cord. The disease can be caused by either a virus or bacteria. Viral meningitis is generally less severe and resolves without specific treatment, while bacterial meningitis can be quite severe and may result in brain damage, hearing loss, learning disability, or death. About 2600 people get bacterial meningitis each year in the U.S. 10 to 15% of these cases are fatal, in spite of treatment with antibiotics. The disease can also cause permanent disabilities such as hearing loss, brain damage, seizures or amputation. Why are college students at risk for meningitis? College students have a greater risk of bacterial meningitis infection than the general population because of activities that are often part of college life, such as living in residence halls, eating in dining halls and attending classes. How is meningitis transmitted? Bacterial meningitis is transmitted through air droplets and direct contact with anyone already infected with the disease. The infection is spread through close contact with oral secretions, such as shared drinks, utensils and cigarettes, through coughing, or through intimate contact such as kissing. What are the symptoms and when should I seek medical care? Early symptoms of meningitis may include: High fever Rash Vomiting Severe headache Neck stiffness Lethargy Nausea Sensitivity to light Because the infection progresses rapidly, you should seek immediate medical care if 2 or more of these symptoms occur at the same time. If you are a Brown student and have 2 or more of these symptoms at the same time, call 401.863-1330 without delay. How long after exposure to meningitis will symptoms appear? It's easy to mistake the early symptoms of bacterial and viral meningitis for the flu. These symptoms may develop over a period of 1 or 2 days, but some types of meningitis can prove fatal in a matter of hours. Even in less severe cases, the longer you delay getting treatment, the more likely you are to have permanent neurologic damage. Seek medical care right away if you or someone you know has any of the above symptoms. How is it diagnosed? Early diagnosis and treatment are very important. The diagnosis is usually made by growing bacteria from a sample of spinal fluid. The spinal fluid is obtained by performing a spinal tap, in which a needle is inserted into an area in the lower back where fluid in the spinal canal is readily accessible. Identification of the type of bacteria is necessary to prescribe the correct antibiotic treatment. How is it treated? Bacterial meningitis can be treated with a number of effective antibiotics. It is important, however, that treatment be started early in the course of the disease. Appropriate antibiotic treatment should reduce the risk of fatal meningitis to below 15%, although the risk is higher among the elderly. Is it contagious? Yes, some forms of bacterial meningitis are contagious. The bacteria are spread through the exchange of respiratory and throat secretions (i.e., coughing, kissing). People in the same residential unit, day care center, or anyone with direct contact with an infected person's oral secretions would be considered to be at increased risk of acquiring the infection. People who qualify as close contacts of a person with meningitis should receive antibiotics to prevent them from getting the disease. Fortunately, none of the bacteria that cause meningitis are as contagious as things like the common cold or the flu. Can I prevent meningitis? You can minimize your risk of bacterial meningitis by receiving a vaccine. The meningitis vaccine is generally safe and effective and is used for immunization against bacteria strains A, C, Y, and W-135, which account for about 70% of bacterial meningitis cases. At this time, it is unclear how long immunity lasts, so booster shots may be required in the future. As with any vaccine, not all individuals will be protected 100% after receiving the immunization. Does the vaccine have side effects? The bacterial meningitis vaccine is generally well tolerated with a low incidence of side effects. Some people may experience a local reaction (warmth, redness, swelling, or soreness) at the injection site for 1 to 2 days. However, as with any drug or vaccine, there is a possibility that allergic or other more serious reactions may occur. Who should NOT get the meningitis vaccine? Anyone with a serious, active infection Anyone with a hypersensitivity or allergy to thimerosal (a preservative used in eye drops and vaccines) Any woman who is or may become pregnant How much does the vaccine cost? The vaccine costs approximately $120 and may be billed to the student's bursar account. Brown insurance does cover the cost of the vaccine (with a copay) if you are 18 or younger. If you have other health insurance, check the policy for reimbursement information. When can students be vaccinated? Brown students can call Health Services at 401.863-1330 to schedule an appointment to receive the vaccine. Related Links To learn more about meningitis, you can visit: Centers for Disease Control This site has information on the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of meningitis. MEDLINE Plus This site has several articles on meningitis, including general overviews, and information on treatment and prevention. PBS Nova Series, "Killer Disease on Campus" At this site you can read an interview with a college-aged survivor of meningitis, read frequently asked questions about meningitis and view interactive displays about vaccine production. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook