COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Certificates Section Menu Certificates Degree Options Resources for Students LAS Scholarships Certificate Programs Certificate programs in liberal arts and sciences are a great way to show your employer that you have developed new skills and competencies that benefit you personally and professionally. A certificate is a group of related courses that address a special topic, and program completion indicates achievement in a specialized area. The length of time it takes to complete a certificate depends upon the program itself. Some program courses may have prerequisites. This table lists certificates offered through Fairmount College. Unless otherwise noted, they are offered at the undergraduate level. Only those certificates approved through the university curricular process will appear on a student's permanent academic record. See an academic advisor for more information. Asian Studies—Interdisciplinary City and County Management (graduate)—Hugo Wall School of Public Affairs Community Psychology—Psychology Economic Development (graduate)—Hugo Wall School of Public Affairs Film Studies—Interdisciplinary Global Competency—Interdisciplinary Great Plains Studies (graduate and undergraduate)—Interdisciplinary Human Factors Psychology—Psychology Medieval and Renaissance Studies—Interdisciplinary Museum Studies (graduate)—Anthropology Nonprofit Management (graduate)—Hugo Wall School of Public Affairs Public Finance (graduate)—Hugo Wall School of Public Affairs Social Work and Addiction—School of Social Work Spanish for the Professions—Modern and Classical Languages and Literatures Tilford Diversity Studies—Interdisciplinary 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©