Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Us Outreach Prospective Students Current Students News and Organizations Our Impact ‘Mama Lisa’ is a Clemson University masterpiece Wednesday May 04, 2022 Lisa Jackson's job title is associate director of PEER in Clemson University's PEER & WISE program, but to the students in her care, she is something more. They call her "Mama Lisa." The post ‘Mama Lisa’ is a Clemson University masterpiece appeared first on Clemson News. Student government president-elect Malik Balogun wants every student to feel part of the Clemson Family Thursday April 07, 2022 Malik Balogun wanted every student to feel part of the Clemson Family, so he ran for student body president-- and won. The post Student government president-elect Malik Balogun wants every student to feel part of the Clemson Family appeared first on Clemson News. ‘Unsung heroes’ win awards from the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Tuesday November 30, 2021 The “unsung heroes of CECAS” are unsung no more. Five staff members in Clemson University’s College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences received awards during a Nov. 30 ceremony at the Madren Conference Center attended by friends and colleagues. Awards […] The post ‘Unsung heroes’ win awards from the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences appeared first on Clemson News. Soledad O’Brien, Vanessa Wyche bring national prestige to Clemson’s first Women’s Roundtable event Tuesday November 09, 2021 The sold-out inaugural Women’s Roundtable Summit on November 3 at the Greenville Convention Center gathered 350 young women from around the Upstate, ages ranging from middle school to college, to connect and hear first-hand stories from accomplished women who know what it takes to reach for greatness. The post Soledad O’Brien, Vanessa Wyche bring national prestige to Clemson’s first Women’s Roundtable event appeared first on Clemson News. Industry investment: Support continues growing for Clemson’s nationally recognized diversity and inclusion programming Friday October 22, 2021 Dominion Energy and Duke Energy expand their partnership with the University through significant funding for diversity and inclusion initiatives across campus. The post Industry investment: Support continues growing for Clemson’s nationally recognized diversity and inclusion programming appeared first on Clemson News. GE Invests $5 Million in the Next Generation of Greenville Engineers Wednesday October 13, 2021 GE will work directly with Clemson University to implement Next Engineers locally. The post GE Invests $5 Million in the Next Generation of Greenville Engineers appeared first on Clemson News. Clemson University’s PEER & WISE and COSMIC Programs Receive  INSIGHT Into Diversity Magazine’s 2021 Inspiring Programs in STEM Award Monday August 16, 2021 Clemson University’s PEER & WISE and COSMIC programs received the 2021 Inspiring Programs in STEM Award from INSIGHT Into Diversity magazine, the largest and oldest diversity and inclusion publication in higher education. The Inspiring Programs in STEM Award honors colleges […] The post Clemson University’s PEER & WISE and COSMIC Programs Receive  INSIGHT Into Diversity Magazine’s 2021 Inspiring Programs in STEM Award appeared first on Clemson News. Organizations American Society for Engineering Education Association for Women in Science Guide for Women Interested in STEM Disciplines History of Women and Computers Mentor Net National Organization for the Professional Advancement of Black Chemists and Chemical Engineers National Society of Black Engineers Out in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics Scholarships for Women Science, Mathematics, And Research for Transformation Defense Scholarship for Service Program (SMART) Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers Society of Women Engineers Society of Women Engineers-Clemson Student Section Women in Engineering Programs & Advocates Network Women in Technology International About Us Meet the Team Our Impact Give to PEER/WISE Copyright © Clemson University PEER & WISE | 158 Freeman Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 (864) 656-0976 | Email Us