Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Diversity & Inclusion Menu Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It! Baylor>Diversity & Inclusion>Leadership Commitment>Human Sexuality at Baylor Human Sexuality at Baylor University Baylor University is committed to providing a caring, loving and supportive community for students in all aspects of their lives, including the development of their sexuality. We acknowledge the complexity of issues surrounding human sexuality and desire to engage in this conversation with humility, prayerfulness and convicted civility. We believe that Baylor is in a unique position to support our students, including those who identify as LGBTQ, because of our Christian mission and the significant campus-wide resources available. Baylor’s status as a Christian research university values the scholarly investigation of Scripture. Consequently, we are committed to the open study of Scripture and discussion of multiple perspectives, both inside and outside the classroom. Regardless of one’s viewpoint on human sexuality, Baylor supports the dignity and worth of every person and seeks to create a campus climate where each person is treated with love and respect within our caring community, as outlined in our University mission statement. President Livingstone's Message on Human Sexuality - August 27, 2019 Frequently Asked Questions Board approves guiding principles caring for all students, including LGBTQ students Baylor continues to place a priority on care for all students while rooted in its Baptist beliefs and traditional biblical understanding of human sexuality. On May 14, 2021, the Board passed a resolution that acknowledges the University’s responsibility for serving the needs of all students based on three guiding principles: The dignity and worth of all, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity, as we strive to fulfill our Christian commitment of a caring community. The biblical understanding that sexual relations of any kind outside of marriage between a man and a woman are not in keeping with the teaching of Scripture, as summarized in the University’s Statement on Human Sexuality. Our commitment to providing a welcoming, supportive educational environment based on civility and respect for all. Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It!