Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Music Education Jazz Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Music Education Jazz Major Apply Visit Request More Info Music Education Jazz Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Undergraduate Audition Requirements Bachelor of Music in Music Education Jazz Develop the skills to help cultivate a love of music with the Bachelor of Music (BM) in Music Education Jazz in Temple's Boyer College of Music and Dance. You’ll prepare for a career in music education with an emphasis on jazz through a comprehensive curriculum of applied music, internships and externships, and jazz studies. In this interdisciplinary, five-year undergraduate curriculum, you’ll study music history and theory. Coursework emphasizes hands-on learning, including music arrangements, editing, orchestration, performance and recording. The Music Education/Jazz BM program’s education courses delve into teaching instrumentation, rehearsal techniques, listening and articulation, rhythm development and more. You’ll also have opportunities to explore teaching across grade levels. Students can study elementary, secondary or higher education, as well as special needs education, to gain the groundwork needed to teach a diverse community of future learners and musicians. Completion of the program requires a concentration and two student teaching placements. The number of required credit hours is between 158 and 161, depending on your concentration. Choose to concentrate in Instrumental, Piano with a band/orchestra emphasis, Piano with a choral/general emphasis or Voice. Learn more about the Music Education/Jazz BM concentration requirements. Successful completion of the program fulfills one of the requirements necessary to apply for a teaching certification in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Certification permits you to teach students in PreK through grade 12. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover music education faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer music education degree programs. Classes & Curriculum In this degree program, courses will include Collaboration & Creativity in the New Music Community, Composing Music for Films, History of Jazz, Music Learning & Development, Music in History, Music Technology, Orchestration, and Teaching Instrumental Music to Inclusive Populations. This program is intended for students with a particular appreciation for the distinctive and eclectic genre of jazz, with available courses including Jazz Arranging, Jazz Improvisation: Theory and Practice, Jazz Style and Analysis, and Seminar in Advanced Jazz Composition and Arranging. The Boyer College of Music & Dance also offers a general Bachelor of Music in Music Education program. Learn more about the BM in Music Education/Jazz course requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Composition MM Jazz Studies MM Music MA Music MS Music PhD Music Education MM (available online) Music Education PhD Music History MM Music Performance MM Music Technology MS Music Theory MM Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $19,032.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,408.00 per year Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. American Choral Directors Association provides students opportunities to experience choral conducting through guest lectures and rehearsal practice, and offers opportunities to earn practical experience through various regional and state conferences. National Association for Music Education is a conservatory chapter of the national organization of music educators. Semester activities include creating projects, presenting guest speakers and workshops, attending the PMEA All-State conference, participating in outreach activities, and learning to use various online music education resources. OWLchestra Community Orchestra is a community string orchestra composed of students and community members who want to play music together in a low-stress environment. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Alison Reynolds is the chair of the Department of Music Education and Therapy. Phone: 215-204-1660 Email: alison.reynolds@temple.edu Study Away Temple’s study away programs offers all full-time, degree-seeking students the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Host countries include Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Study abroad advisors will help you with your study abroad plans for either a Temple program or an external program. Learn more about your options for studying away. Conservatorium van Amsterdam Jazz students can exchange places with a student from the Netherlands and study at the Conservatorium van Amsterdam. While conservatory students study at Temple, immerse yourself for a semester or academic year in a historical city and at an institution that is more than 130 years old. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. Concentrations You can focus on Music Education Jazz or you can take one of the following concentrations. Bassoon Cello Clarinet Double Bass Euphonium Flute French Horn Guitar Harp Oboe Percussion Piano Saxophone Trombone Trumpet Tuba Viola Violin Voice BC-MEJZ-BMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Music Education Jazz Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Undergraduate Audition Requirements Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info