Skip to Main Content Brown University Applied Mathematics Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History Association of Women in Mathematics at Brown Position Openings Contact DEI in APMA Community DEI Activities DEI Committee Newsletter Support Undergraduate Concentrations Concentration Advisors Honors Directed Reading Research and Internship Opportunities Awards AMDUG Student Groups Undergraduate Student Groups Graduate Our Advisors Prospective Masters Students Prospective PhD Students Current Students Master’s Program in Data Science Ph.D. Program in Computational Molecular Biology Graduate Student Awards Internship Opportunities Student Groups Graduate Handbook Prelim Information People Faculty Visiting Scholars Postdocs Graduate Students Staff Research Research Areas Research Institutes and Centers Research Groups Research Grants Seminars/Events PDE Seminars Probability Seminars Combinatorics Seminars Applied Mathematics Colloquium LCDS Seminars Pattern Theory Seminars SEAM Seminars Scientific Computing Seminars News Search Applied Mathematics Applied Mathematics Applied Mathematics Our mission rests in research, education, and scholarship. Our faculty engages in research in a range of areas from applied and algorithmic problems to the study of fundamental mathematical questions. By its nature, our work is and always has been inter- and multi-disciplinary. Among the research areas represented in the Division are dynamical systems and partial differential equations, control theory, probability and stochastic processes, numerical analysis and scientific computing, fluid mechanics, computational molecular biology, statistics, and pattern theory. Recent News View All News May 5, 2022 Research at Brown Professor Hongjie Dong receives a mid-Career Research Achievement Award Professor Hongjie Dong is a recipient of a mid-Career Research Achievement Award. Professor Dong is a leading expert in the field of partial differential equations which help to analyze the laws of physics and engineering. He has developed novel tools to analyze elliptic and parabolic partial differential equations, and applies his expertise to the theories of composite materials, fluid dynamics and kinetic theory. April 20, 2022 American Mathematical Society Big Math in Little Rhody The smallest state in the country has two centers of world-class mathematics. The American Mathematical Society (AMS) and the Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics (ICERM) are both located in Providence, RI. The AMS publishes many research journals, and maintains an electronic database called MathSciNet, among many other services. ICERM's mission is to solidify the relationship between mathematics and computation. March 14, 2022 Research at Brown Oanh Nguyen receives Salomon Award Professor Oanh Nguyen was honored with a Salomon Award for her research work regarding the limited distribution for the number of real roots. The goal of her research is to study fundamental problems concerning the distribution of roots of random polynomials and random functions. This is Professor Nguyen's first year as an Assistant Professor in the Division of Applied Mathematics here at Brown. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History Association of Women in Mathematics at Brown Position Openings Contact DEI in APMA Community DEI Activities DEI Committee Newsletter Support Undergraduate Concentrations Concentration Advisors Honors Directed Reading Research and Internship Opportunities Awards AMDUG Student Groups Undergraduate Student Groups Graduate Our Advisors Prospective Masters Students Prospective PhD Students Current Students Master’s Program in Data Science Ph.D. Program in Computational Molecular Biology Graduate Student Awards Internship Opportunities Student Groups Graduate Handbook Prelim Information People Faculty Visiting Scholars Postdocs Graduate Students Staff Research Research Areas Research Institutes and Centers Research Groups Research Grants Seminars/Events PDE Seminars Probability Seminars Combinatorics Seminars Applied Mathematics Colloquium LCDS Seminars Pattern Theory Seminars SEAM Seminars Scientific Computing Seminars News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Applied Mathematics Open details for Applied Mathematics Bookmark this Page