Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Mathematics MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Mathematics MS Apply Request More Info Mathematics MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Mathematics Study real-life and theoretical data with the Master of Science in Mathematics in Temple’s College of Science and Technology. This tight-knit, interdisciplinary program prepares students for math-focused careers in education, government, industry and mathematics. You will have the opportunity to explore mathematics as both an applied and a pure discipline. The dynamic curriculum delves into mathematical analysis, principles and theories, preparing you to effectively handle a variety of mathematical situations and competently communicate your research. The degree program offers a concentration in Applied and Computational Mathematics for those looking to apply mathematical ideas to the study of real-world phenomena. Our intimate program affords you individualized attention and facilitation, with a research faculty-to-student ratio near one-to-one. Small graduate classes are held in an informal atmosphere, enabling you to work closely with faculty and peers. You can participate in one of the department’s strong research groups, which cover topics such as algebra, analysis, applied mathematics and scientific computing, geometry and topology, and probability. At the end of the program, you’ll have the option of completing your culminating project with a master’s thesis, the Master’s Comprehensive Examination or a master’s pass on the PhD Comprehensive Examination. The program may be completed over the course of three years on a part- or full-time basis. Concentrations You can focus on Mathematics or you can take one of the following concentrations. Applied and Computational Mathematics Pursue your master's degree with a focus on applied and computational mathematics. Take small classes and work closely with faculty to build a strong a future career in mathematics or continue to future graduate study. Read more about the MS program in Mathematics with an Applied and Computational Mathematics Concentration. View Concentration Details Classes & Curriculum Some of the overarching mathematic fields in the 30-credit-hour master’s program include algebra, analysis, geometry, probability and topology. Required courses you will take during your studies include Calculus of Variations; Differential Topology; Fundamentals of Computer Programming for Scientists and Engineers; Homological Algebra; Knot Theory and Low-Dimensional Topology; Mathematical Modeling for Science, Engineering and Industry; and Riemannian Geometry. Learn more about Mathematics MS courses. Related Graduate Degrees Mathematics PhD Computational Data Science MS Computer and Information Science Information PhD Computer Science MS Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM Information Science and Technology MS Scientific Writing PSM Actuarial Science * Civil Engineering PhD ** Related Graduate Certificates Computer Science *Fox School of Business **College of Engineering Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors For general questions regarding the Mathematics MS, contact grad.math@temple.edu. Yury Grabovsky, professor and graduate chairperson of the Mathematics Department, is the faculty program coordinator for the Mathematics MS. Phone: 215-204-7840 Email: yury.grabovsky@temple.edu Irina Mitrea, professor and department chair of the Department of Mathematics, is the faculty program coordinator for the Mathematics MS. Phone: 215-204-7841 Email: imitrea@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student Clubs and Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Mathematics degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. the Association for Women in Mathematics—Temple University Chapter, which promotes equal opportunities for women in the field and encourages them to seek careers in mathematics. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, a professional society for students interested in industrial, computational or applied mathematics. Members have opportunities to attend seminars, explore career opportunities and meet with scientists in the field. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away Students might be able to assist and join department faculty for overseas conferences and extended research visits. Qualified students may be nominated to participate in summer graduate schools at the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute and at other conferences. If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Affiliations The Mathematics program at Temple University is affiliated with the American Mathematical Society and the Mathematical Association of America. School Partnerships The College of Science and Technology and its various research centers and institutes have formed research or research funding partnerships with: Benjamin Franklin Technology Partners Caring People Alliance (CPA) - High School Program City of Philadelphia Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency National Institute of Justice National Institute of Standards and Technology National Institutes of Health National Science Foundation Pennsylvania Department of Health US Air Force US Department of Defense US Department of Energy In addition, faculty have conducted research at outside laboratories, including: Brookhaven National Laboratory Los Alamos Meson Physics Facility Stanford Linear Accelerator Center Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-MATH-MS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Mathematics MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info