Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Paul L. Foster Success Center First in Line Menu About Us Meet the First in Line Team Events First in Line Student Society Peer Leader Program Micah Mitchell- A First-Gen Blog Academic Success Getting Involved at Baylor Paying for College Types of Financial Aid Parent Resources Ways to Support Your Student Scholarships Bear Textbooks Scholarship Application First Abroad Fellows-Study Abroad Scholarship First in Line Success Academy (FILSA) Scholarship Program First in Line Leadership Scholarship Make a Gift Baylor>First in Line>Scholarships>First in Line Success Academy (FILSA) Scholarship Program First in Line Success Academy (FILSA) Scholarship Program Applications are now closed for the fall term start. Selections are being finalized during this time. If you have any questions, please reach out to FirstinLine@baylor.edu Are you the first in your family to go to college? If so, Baylor has an innovative program for First Generation College Students who are incoming freshmen or incoming transfer students that provides the opportunity to receive a scholarship and support to help their transition to Baylor. Through the First in Line Success Academy, students will have a dynamic opportunity to develop relationships with other first generation students, meet faculty, and become familiar with campus and Baylor traditions through a pre-move-in program that will extend through their Baylor career. The First in Line Success Academy (FILSA) program will begin in August before Welcome Week or classes start. Program Incentives $3,000 Annual Scholarship An Academic Coach Peer Mentoring Academic Workshops General Support Access to leadership and service opportunities *50 students are selected for each incoming cohort from the applications received. Applications are closed at this time for the fall start term. Impact The First in Line Success Academy program provides students the opportunity to get a head start on life as a Baylor Bear. From the 2017 cohort, 96% of the students felt that the program gave them the confidence that they can succeed in college and 94% felt more connected to Baylor due to participation in the program. Program Benefits By participating in FILSA, students will: Get connected to the Baylor community and meet other first-generation college students at Baylor Engage in the college experience and prepare to be successful academically in the fall and beyond Take advantage of one-on-one support from Academic Mentors, Peer Leaders, and faculty/staff who will help guide you to success Student Eligibility To be eligible for FILSA, you must: Be admitted to Baylor Submit your FAFSA, TAFSA. or CSS profile Be a first-generation college student* Be a first-time incoming college freshman or transfer student Be starting Baylor in the fall of 2022 or spring 2022 if a transfer student Be available to move in early and participate in events throughout the fall and spring semesters *Note: Baylor defines First-Generation College Student as a student whose parents did not complete a four-year college degree. Students can still be considered a first-generation college student with older siblings having a four-year college degree or attending college. Comm Serv (2) Comm Serv (5) FILSA_Closing (10) FILSA_Closing (18) IMG_2237 Retreat (21) SLCNite_2351 Scholarships Bear Textbooks Scholarship Application First Abroad Fellows-Study Abroad Scholarship First in Line Success Academy (FILSA) Scholarship Program First in Line Leadership Scholarship First in Line Sid Richardson, West Wing (254) 710-3478 firstinline@baylor.edu Paul L. Foster Success Center Center for Academic Success and Engagement On-Campus Resources Student Employment Student Financial Services Make a Gift General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Meet the First in Line Team Events First in Line Student Society Peer Leader Program Micah Mitchell- A First-Gen Blog Academic Success Getting Involved at Baylor Paying for College Types of Financial Aid Parent Resources Ways to Support Your Student Scholarships Bear Textbooks Scholarship Application First Abroad Fellows-Study Abroad Scholarship First in Line Success Academy (FILSA) Scholarship Program First in Line Leadership Scholarship Make a Gift