Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Academics Courses & Enrollment Steps to Enroll Academics Majors & Minors Graduate & Professional Programs UH Faculty Colleges & Departments Libraries & Learning Resources Courses & Enrollment Steps to Enroll myUH Class Schedule Enrollment Schedule Enrollment FAQ Final Exam Schedules Policies & Procedures Online and Special Programs Academic Forms Steps to Enroll If you are a continuing UH student, follow these steps to enroll in classes each term. Preparing for your first term at UH? Check out our Recently Admitted Students Checklist. Get Prepared Make sure your UH email "destination" is up-to-date. We will be sending important updates about enrollment deadlines and other official notifications to your UH email address. It is very important to keep your email "destination" current. Get your myUH ID. Plan your Class Schedule Review the Core Curriculum, if you are an undergraduate student. Consult with your Academic Advisor Undergraduate Advising. Graduate Advising. Check the Undergraduate Catalog or Graduate Catalog for prerequisites and course descriptions. Do not enroll in a class if you lack the required prerequisites. Plan your class schedule with the Schedule Planner. For more information on how to use this tool, please visit the Student Resources page. Public view of the Class Schedule. Complete Online Training (all new students) Mandatory Salutations Training - Failure to complete the training by the end of the student enrollment in your first term will result in a hold being placed on your student account. To complete the online module: Log in to AccessUH and click on the Student Training icon Click on the View Courses link Click on the Salutations - Sexual Misconduct Prevention and Awareness Training course link Complete the quiz Enroll in Classes Enroll through myUH. Make Payment Arrangements Review payment information and deadlines. Pay your fee bill or select a payment plan through myUH. Note: Things to do on an Annual Basis ** Please note that all students receiving financial aid will need to apply and be approved on an annual basis to continue to receive financial assistance. Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) after Jan. 1 but before April 1. The University of Houston school code is 003652. Through myUH, monitor your financial aid application status and confirm your contact information. Review scholarship opportunities on an annual basis. Related Links myUH Academic Calendar Undergraduate Academic Advising Graduate Academic Advising University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies