Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Academic Advising Center Main Navigation About Us Show Extended What We Do General Education General Grad Requirements Undeclared Academic Success Liberal Education Major and Minor Exploration Staff Faculty Development Certificate Faculty and Staff Training Videos Navigate Student App AAC Office Location Gordon Hall-123(formerly University Hall), 800 N State College Blvd, Fullerton, California 92831 Academic advising center hours Days Office Hours: Advising Hours: Monday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 3:30 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Tuesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Wednesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Thursday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Friday 8 am — 12 pm 8:30 am —11:30 am Phone : (657) 278-3606 Fax : (657) 278-7146 Contact Academic Advising Center Current Students Show Extended Freshmen Major Exploration Remediation Tutoring Services Undeclared Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop AAT/AST Assist.org GE breadth certification Seniors Graduation Requirements Applying for Graduation Graduation Specialists Mandatory Advising Workshops FAQs Continuing Students Undeclared Undeclared Students Show Extended Major Exploration Titan Major Exploration Program Exploring Majors Appointments Assessing Personal and Career Interests Exploring Careers Declare a Major Prospective Students Show Extended Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop Incomplete TDAs Returning Students Major Advising Re-enrollment Information Incoming First Time Freshman AP Scores and Transcripts Academic Success Show Extended IMPROVING GPA Repeats Grade Forgiveness Balanced Schedule Time Management Academic support resources University Learning Center English Department Writing Center CBE Tutoring Center OCSAMS CASECS Student Technology Services Academic Notice and Disqualification Academic Notice Academic Disqualification Fullerton Finish TitanNet Academic Planner Academic Notice and Disqualification Requirements Major Exploration GPA Calculator AAC Virtual Printable FERPA Release Form Titan Major Exploration Program Exploring Majors Major Exploration Advising Exploring Careers Major Exploration Events Declare a Major Assessing Personal and Career Interests Exploring Careers Once you have a better understanding of your interests, the resources below can help you to gather an understanding of potential career options: Campus Resources Academic Advising Center Career Center Center for Careers in Teaching Center for Internships and Community Engagement Health Professions Advising Online Resources Occupational Outlook Handbook (OOH) The Occupational Outlook Handbook (OOH) is the U.S. government's premier source of career guidance and features hundreds of occupations. The OOH can help you find career information on duties, education and training, pay, and outlook for hundreds of occupations. California CareerZone California CareerZone is a proven, successful career exploration and planning system designed especially for students. Jobseekers, educators, and counselors will also benefit from the wealth of information on 900 occupations from the Occupational Information Network (O*Net) database. The Interest Profiler has a series of questions about work activities that some people do on their jobs. O*NET O*NET is tool for career exploration and job analysis! O*NET OnLine has detailed descriptions of the world of work for use by job seekers, workforce development and HR professionals, students, researchers, and more! CareerOne Stop CareerOne Stop is your source for employment information and inspiration, the place to manage your career, your pathway to career success, and tools to help job seekers, students, businesses and career professionals. Career Key Career Key gives you expert help with career choices --career changes, career planning, job skills, and choosing a college major or educational program. It is based on the best science and practices of career counseling and the most complete and accurate information available. My Next Move The My Next Move website is an interactive tool for job seekers and students to learn more about their career options. My Next Move has tasks, skills, salary information, and more for over 900 different careers. DO-IT Center DO-IT (Disabilities, Opportunities, Internetworking, and Technology) Center is dedicated to empowering people with disabilities through technology and education. It promotes awareness and accessibility—in both the classroom and the workplace—to maximize the potential of individuals with disabilities and make our communities more vibrant, diverse, and inclusive. College Board College Board is a mission-driven not-for-profit organization that connects students to college success and opportunity. Bigfuture.collegeboard.org features more than 600 major and career profiles. Explore majors and careers that interest you now. Explore Health Careers ExploreHealthCareers.org is a free, multi-disciplinary, interactive health careers website that gives students (and educators) a reliable, comprehensive source of accurate, up-to-date information about the health professions. Art Career Project Art Career Project where you’ll find a breakdown of nearly every type of art and career you can imagine, from the normal to the more obscure. Some of the art careers you’ll find here include graphic design, painting, photography, golf course design, video game design, and even found art! If you don’t see your passion on our site, contact us and we’ll add it. This site is maintained by Academic Advising Center. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact zz-pasharma@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.