Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Covid-19 Information Campus Access For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Keeping Our Offices, Labs, and Facilities Safe Harvard has implemented an adaptable, multi-pronged approach for our faculty, staff, and researchers to safely resume their on-campus activities. Our collective commitment to the required health and safety protocols will enable a safer return to campus for the entire community and reduce the risk and spread of COVID-19. The checklist below is intended to help you stay healthy while working on campus. It includes everything from Harvard’s public health requirements, to logistical support with commuting, to connecting new devices to secure Wifi. The list of FAQs below the checklist covers common concerns about testing, test results, privacy, masking, physical distancing, Color, and Crimson Clear. In addition to the University-wide policies, each School, Unit, and department may have their own specific guidance for on-campus activities based on their unique needs. For local guidance and specific questions, contact your supervisor, local testing coordinator, or HR staff in your unit. Other helpful resources to inform your return include: COVID-19 Safety Awareness Training: Protection/Prevention Practices University Guidance for On-Campus Activity Campus checklist for employees Get vaccinated and boosted Harvard is requiring COVID-19 vaccines for all community members and one COVID-19 booster for all eligible community members. This includes employees. Verify your vaccination and booster Keep a mask handy Face coverings are optional in all indoor and outdoor spaces on Harvard’s campuses. Schools and Central Administration Units may continue to require masking in certain settings as they deem appropriate, and schools may grant discretion to individual faculty to require masking in their classrooms. If you feel the need to continue to wear a mask for your own protection, or to protect someone close to you, you should do so. Mask guidance Test when you need to While Harvard is no longer requiring routine testing for COVID-19, all affiliates have the option of doing so if they wish, by taking a self-administered test and submitting it via Color. Anyone with symptoms or known exposure should also continue to test and follow HUHS guidance. Testing and tracing Stay home if you feel unwell Use Crimson Clear to report if you have symptoms, have been exposed to someone with COVID-19, or have tested positive outside of the University’s testing program or HUHS. Report your symptoms or exposure Understand quarantine & isolation requirements Review HUHS' exposure, quarantine, and isolation requirements if you think you have been exposed or if you have tested positive. View HUHS' guidance Know your commuting options COVID-19 has changed the way we commute. Campus Services offers new, flexible options to accommodate the changes. Flex your ride Read HR's guidance Human Resources has put together a comprehensive list of answers to common questions about returning to campus. Read the Policies and FAQs Opens new window Stay informed Each School and Unit at Harvard is adapting their COVID-19 plan to their community's needs. Stay in touch with local leaders, and visit the School & Program Information page for updates. School and Unit plans Opens new window Follow posted instructions in campus buildings & spaces Follow the health and safety signage you’ll see around campus for properly using and navigating spaces. Be patient as we all learn new habits. Frequently Asked Questions Testing | Test results | Color | Crimson Clear | Masking | Physical distancing | Privacy Testing: Getting started When do I get enrolled in the testing program? Local leadership will enroll you in the testing program prior to your return-to-campus date. Confirm with your supervisor and/or local testing coordinator that you have been enrolled. Then, create your Color account using your Harvard email. Learn more about testing. When do I begin testing? Follow the testing cadence based on your testing group listed under “How often do I test?” Affiliates who do not live on campus are not required to test regularly, however have the option of doing so if they wish. All affiliates who do live on campus are required to continue regular testing until their transition date to optional testing on May 10. Anyone with symptoms or known exposure should continue to test. Learn more about testing. Where do I get my test kits? You may have access to a local supply of test kits in your department or unit. Check with your supervisor. You can also check with your School or Unit’s local testing coordinator for test kit pick-up locations. Where and when do I drop off my test kit sample? Drop-off bins are available at multiple locations across campus. See the map to find your nearest location. You should drop off your test sample as soon as possible after completing your self-swab. Note the hours of operation and last pick-up times for each collection bin on the map. Samples not deposited in a bin within 24 hours from activation may be discarded by the lab. If I am in the infrequent category, do I test before or after coming to campus? If you have an infrequent on-campus presence (e.g., once/month), you should test on the day you arrive on campus. After that, follow the testing cadence listed in your Color account. In general, employees with an infrequent on-campus presence will test every 30 days. If you find yourself coming to campus more frequently, notify your testing coordinator and immediately test at a higher frequency. What happens if I do not want to test? All University affiliates who are authorized to be on campus are required to test at their assigned cadence. Your Color account will indicate your testing frequency and compliance/noncompliance status based on your testing group, vaccination status, last test date, and local infection rates. Managers will be informed of a noncompliance status. Failure to comply with testing will be addressed appropriately at the local level. I’m away from campus or taking vacation or sick time. How do I stay in testing compliance? For vacation and sick time, we have built a grace period into testing compliance, but it’s a good practice to make sure your supervisor is aware you might fall out of compliance. If you’re away from campus for the winter recess, or working remotely, you can disregard your Color notifications and resume testing upon your return to campus. If you are currently outside of the Boston/Cambridge area, get tested prior to your return travel to ensure you are not putting others at risk of infection while in transit. Test results What happens if I test positive? If you test positive for COVID-19 through Harvard’s testing program, it’s incredibly important to minimize your movement and exposure to others by returning or staying home and wearing a well-fitting mask at all times if in the presence of other household members. HUHS will contact you about your isolation requirements via your Harvard email. See HUHS’ exposure, quarantine, and isolation guidance for details on your requirements and next steps. If you test positive outside of Harvard’s testing program, report your positive result through Crimson Clear. If you test positive on an outside antigen test, you are required to then submit a PCR test for secondary confirmation. Isolate as soon as possible, and follow the instructions from HUHS contact tracers. Instructions will come to your Harvard email. I planned to go into the office and I feel fine, but my test is positive. What should I do? Do not come to the office. If a test result comes back positive but you are without symptoms, you are still carrying the virus and could be contagious to other members of the community. Even if you had planned to go into the office that day, do not report to work/class or engage in any on-campus activities. You should notify your supervisor as soon as possible and stay home. Review Harvard HR’s Covid-19 policy on use of sick time and dependent care sick time. If you are able to teach or work, you will need to do so remotely. Your supervisor or HR administrator can guide you as to how to record your time. In addition to staying home, you should follow HUHS’ exposure, quarantine, and isolation guidance for details on your requirements and next steps. What happens when a colleague/building neighbor tests positive? Do I stay home? COVID-positive individuals need to identify and notify their close contacts to let them know of their exposure, the date that they were last exposed, and provide instructions for their next steps. HUHS contact tracers will provide COVID-positive individuals with an email template to notify their close contacts. Close contacts should review the quarantine requirements and exposure guidance, determine which category is most appropriate based on their vaccination and booster status, and follow the applicable guidance to help decrease the risk of spreading COVID-19. View HUHS’ exposure, quarantine, and isolation guidance to determine your requirements and next steps. I need to quarantine for reasons outside of Harvard. What should I do? If you need to quarantine, or if you test positive, outside of Harvard’s testing program, please report it in Crimson Clear. If you test positive on an outside antigen test, you are required to then submit a PCR test for secondary confirmation. Isolate as soon as possible, and follow the instructions from HUHS. Instructions will come to your Harvard email. Review Harvard HR’s Covid-19 policy on use of sick time and dependent care sick time. Color What is Color? Color is a health testing and technology company. Harvard has partnered with Color to administer the University’s testing procedures, which includes providing test kits, managing alerts for regular testing, and delivering test results to individuals. See Harvard University IT’s Color FAQs for more information. I’m trying to set-up my Color account and get the message “your email is not eligible for this program.” What does that mean? It is likely that you have not been activated for testing. Contact your local testing coordinator to troubleshoot the situation and discuss your eligibility. I tested, but it’s not showing up in my Color account. What do I do? It’s possible your kit was not activated properly. The best advice is to simply submit another test, but you can also contact support@color.com to troubleshoot what happened. Again, best course of action is to take another test. Crimson Clear What is Crimson Clear and what do I use it for? Crimson Clear is an application developed by Harvard University for Harvard faculty, staff, students, and invited visitors to campus. You are required to use Crimson Clear if you are experiencing symptoms, if you have a known exposure to COVID-19 outside of Harvard’s contact tracing process, or have tested positive outside of Harvard’s testing program. Crimson Clear is also a helpful resource to view your assigned testing group and compliance status, and update your vaccination and booster status (verification or exemption). Masking Do I have to wear a mask in the office all day? In my private office? In the hall? Face coverings are optional in all indoor spaces on Harvard’s campuses. Schools and Central Administration Units may continue to require masking in certain settings as they deem appropriate. If you feel the need to continue to wear a mask for your own protection, or to protect someone close to you, you should do so. The decision to wear a mask in settings where it is not required is a personal one, and it should be informed by the prevalence of cases in the community, your vaccination status, and your age/medical history. Masks continue to be highly effective in reducing risk of transmission regardless of vaccination status. Physical distancing Do I have to maintain distance from my coworkers? Indoor and outdoor physical distancing is no longer required for fully vaccinated and boosted people. Unvaccinated individuals should continue to protect themselves by practicing physical distancing when possible, especially when unmasked. In settings where physical distancing is no longer required, it remains a prudent and optional health practice when close contact is not necessary. Privacy I want to keep my vaccination and booster status to myself. What privacy measures are in place? Only you and HUHS will know your vaccination and booster status. Review the COVID-19 testing and tracing data collection and privacy information to understand which information is collected and how it is used. Will my manager or HR know if I am out of compliance, and can it affect my employment? Consistent with federal guidance, all Harvard employees, including those who are on 100% remote work status, must be fully vaccinated unless they have an approved exemption. Employees do not have the option to opt for additional testing instead of vaccination. All University affiliates who are authorized to be on campus are required to be tested at their assigned cadence. Managers will be notified of a noncompliance status. Failure to comply with testing will be addressed appropriately at the local level. Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube