Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Commencement Office Apply to Graduate Graduates Accommodations Diplomas Guests Faculty Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduates Graduating Students Attendance & Non-Attendance Form Program Proof Cord & Stole Policy Student Speaker Selection Conduct Guidelines Dress Undergraduates Undergraduate ChecklistHonors Distinction Graduate Students Graduate Student ChecklistGraduate School RequirementsHooding Information Law Law Student ChecklistLaw School Information Cap and Gown Pick up Announcer Information Record Difficult Name Graduation Analyst College School List Diagrams Invitations Photos Alumni /FAM Membership FAQs for Graduates Take Action Current News Commencement Attendance Form Commencement Live Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutube Home Commencement Office Graduates Commencement FAQs FAQs APPLY TO GRADUATE 1. What is my "College or School?" All academic fields of study are located within a college. The colleges are: Arts & Sciences, Business and Economics, Communication & Fine Arts, Education, Engineering, University College, Nursing, Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management, School of Communication Sciences and Disorders, Law, and Graduate School. All graduate students are in the Graduate School regardless of major. The commencement program will list graduate students with the undergraduate college of their major to correspond with the processional. 2. I want to file my intent for May 2090 (or August 2090 or future term), but that is not an option? Why can't I file for spring? You might be looking at the "Curriculum Term Selection" screen, which asks you to choose the right term for your correct program. Choose the most recent term and you will choose the graduation term/date in a few more screens after this selection. 3. I get an error message when I try to file by intent! If you have previously filed for graduation, it will not allow you to do so again. If you have not filed, it may be that you do not have enough hours to file in which case you should contact your graduate analyst. 4. Who is my Graduation Analyst? Please refer to the list of College Graduation Analysts and find the name listed for your College. All doctoral, master's and certificate students contact gsgraduateanalyst@memphis.edu. Law Students speak to Cheryl Edwards, Law School. 5. What if I don't have 80 hours but plan to graduate in two or three semesters? Contact your Academic Advisor and graduation analyst to develop a plan for securing sufficient credits to graduate in the time frame you wish. 6. I need to change my date, and the form will not allow me to do this. The Application will not allow you to do this unless your graduation analyst allows it. Notify your graduation analyst that you need to move your date. 7. I click on Step 3, but it tells me there is no graduation application. You must do Steps 1 and 2 prior to submitting Step 3. If you have done the previous steps, email commencement@memphis.edu with your address, name, UNumber, height, weight and cap size. 8. Step 3 asks me about cap and gown measurements, but I don't plan to participate in a ceremony. Step 3 is required by all students, Undergraduate (UG), Graduate (GR) and Law. The Commencement Office will confirm if you are attending at a later date within your graduating semester. All steps are required. PARTICIPATION 1. Can I decorate my cap and gown? What if I purchase it from the company? Yes, due to a recent change with the vendor, the cap is yours to keep. Therefore, it can be decorated. Please keep the decoration to the top of the flat surface. 2. How do I indicate I plan to participate in Commencement? In your final semester, the Commencement Office will email you Step 4 via a link to the Attendance/Non-Attendance Form. This is the last and final Step in the Commencement process. It is required by all students. 3. Where do I pick up my cap & gown? Students will pick up regalia (caps, gowns, hoods, and tassels) 1-2 days before Commencement during Cap and Gown Distribution. During the spring semester, Lambuth students and Law students will receive caps and gowns in April. 4. What do I need to bring to cap and gown? A copy of the Step 4 Confirmation email. 5. Can someone else pick up my cap and gown, if I am unable? Yes. Please send an email to commencement@memphis.edu with the name of the individual. This person must bring his or her photo ID to the pick-up location. 6. What if I am unable to pick up my items during cap and gown distribution? Can I pick them up at the event location on Commencement day? We highly recommend picking up at cap and gown distribution, however everything that is not picked up during cap and gown distribution is taken to the event location and will be available one hour prior to the event time. You must come one hour prior to ensure you can get your cap and gown. 7. What if my hat is too large/too small? Do not worry. We bring extras to Commencement. 8. When and how do I get a pronouncer card? If you complete all parts of the checklist, a pronouncer card will be given to you during cap and gown distribution. Pronouncer cards must be brought with the graduating student to Commencement or you cannot cross the stage to graduate. Keep it and don't destroy or misplace it. You cannot walk without it. 9. How many people may I bring to the graduation ceremony? All three University of Memphis Commencement ceremonies are currently held at the FedEx Forum. The ceremonies are open to the public. No tickets are required. We encourage large parties to arrive one hour before the ceremony to secure setting together. Commencement and the FedEx Forum do not reserve seats. There is seating for families who have members with disabilities. 10. May I keep my cap, gown, tassel, or honor cord? You must return your gown and hood after the ceremony at the FedEx Forum or the following week inside the Commencement Office (101 Brister Hall). You may keep your cap, tassel and honor cord. 11. Do the undergraduate and master's students walk at the same time? Yes, undergraduate and master's students with the same majors walk with others in the same college/school. For example, an undergraduate major in History and a master's student majoring in History will walk at the same ceremony with The College of Arts and Sciences. If you have questions about this, please contact our office at 901.678.5547. 12. How long do the ceremonies last? The ceremonies will last approximately 2 hours. 13. Can I borrow a cap and gown from the Commencement Office to take pictures? The Commencement Office likes to provide the best customer service to its customers, but we have a limited number of gowns available. So, please call 901-678-5547 to arrange something with our Assistant. DIPLOMAS 1. May I change my name on my diploma? You may change your name in Banner (University system) by going to the Registrar's Office (Wilder Tower, Room 003, 678-3928). The name on your program, attendance card and diploma must match the name on your file at the Registrar's office. Do not wait until the last minute to make a name change. Be sure to complete all of this by the program deadline within the semester you are graduating. For more details, refer to Registrar's Office Policy. If you are an alumnus/a, reordering your diploma, contact the Alumni Office for name changes. 2. How do I update my diploma mailing address? To update your diploma mailing address, click here. Once within My Memphis, go to My Degree, click on the Commencement and Graduation channel, and then go to Step 3 of the Apply to Graduate Process. 3. When will I receive my diploma? Diplomas for May graduates will be mailed by the Commencement Office by August 1 of the same year. Diplomas for August graduates will be mailed by the Commencement Office by November 1 of the same year.Diplomas for December graduates will be mailed by the Commencement Office by March 1 of the following year. 4. Can I pick up my diploma rather than have it mailed to me? Can someone else pick it up for me? Yes. Please email commencement@memphis.edu with your name, college, degree, and email and phone number. We will contact you when your diploma is ready for pick up. Someone else can pick it up by you sending an email to commencement@memphis.edu stating who is allowed to receive your diploma. This person must bring a photo ID. All other diplomas will be mailed. Graduating students with addresses in close proximity will be asked to pick up their diplomas to avoid any damage to them. 5. Where is my diploma? Diplomas are mailed to certified students two-three months after graduation. If it is after 3 months, contact 901-678-5547 or email us at commencement@memphis.edu. The diploma arrives in a large envelope, so sometimes the postal office will require you to pick it up or receive it as a package. If you have not received the diploma within three months, you may want to contact your local postal office before contacting us. 6. I did not obtain a diploma cover and/or tassel. Can one be mailed to me? Mailing the covers is discouraged. However, students are welcome to stop by the Commencement Office M-F 8:00 am - 4:30 pm and obtain one. Tassels can be mailed or picked up from our office. Access to @memphis.edu email and IT resources 1. Will I maintain access to my @memphis.edu email account and other IT resources (such as umWiki, umDrive, etc.)? For all students voluntarily separating from the University, either through graduation or lapse in enrollment, access to University data and IT systems will be revoked one year after the last term the student was enrolled (ex: May Graduates will have access until May 15 the following year). It is the responsibility of the student to save any personal electronic files or data stored on University systems prior to the access termination date. Access to personal electronic files or data will not be provided after the one year expiration unless the individual re-enrolls or has a valid active affiliation. Learn more about this policy > 2. Is there an email address I can use to replace my @memphis.edu account? Alumni Association members are eligible for an Alumni email account with an @memphisalumni.org email address (this email looks great on a resume!). Graduates receive a one-year complimentary membership to the Alumni Association. To learn more, visit alumni.memphis.edu or contact alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.2586. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/2/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.