Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Agricultural Education (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT If you have a passion for agriculture and enjoy working with people, then the Agricultural Education major may be a perfect fit for you! By linking the influences of agriculture and education, you will be prepared to instruct the next generation of agricultural leaders as well as consumers. There continues to be a high demand for agriculture teachers, and graduates of this program are also sought after for numerous positions outside of formal education. Students in this major have a wide variety of technical interests including animal agriculture, science, plant agriculture, agricultural mechanics, agribusiness, and natural resources. Within the degree, you can choose from two concentrations to meet your career goals: leadership and teaching. FAST FACTS Most of our students are heavily involved in the collegiate FFA or 4-H chapters. Agricultural education is the most diverse agricultural degree available covering multiple disciplines. Each student is required to spend a semester in a supervised student teaching experience or an internship. Ag Ed majors take course work in animal science, horticulture, forestry, agricultural mechanics and agribusiness. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY In order to be successful in any of the career opportunities that lead from the agricultural education degree, graduates must have gained a broad knowledge of agriculture. At Clemson, you'll gain understandings from the science behind genetically modified soybeans, to the political challenges of water management, and on to the complexities of agricultural marketing and commodities. While the curriculum is balanced to expose you to the many facets of agriculture and natural resources, there are also opportunities to select course work specific to your interests. Teaching Concentration The teaching concentration is for students who wish to pursue teacher certification for working in secondary education. You must complete a supervised student teaching experience as well as the Praxis examination required by the S.C. Department of Education. Leadership Concentration The leadership concentration trains you to become a leader, trendsetter and innovator for the agricultural industry. Graduates may find themselves in positions with agricultural corporations, government agencies or nonprofit organizations. CAFLS Degree + Agricultural Education Teaching Certificate The Agricultural Education Teaching Certificate is a great option for students enrolled in any of the bachelor's degree programs within the College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences. Qualified students can add the certificate as an enhancement to their current degree, requiring an additional 31 credit hours of specified coursework and a semester of directed-student teaching. Curriculum Agricultural Education, B.S. Agricultural Education: Leadership Emphasis, B.S. Agricultural Education: Teaching Emphasis, B.S. Agricultural Education Teacher Certificate Popular Minors Animal and Veterinary Sciences Agricultural Mechanization and Business Agricultural Business Management Communication Studies Forest Resource Management Horticulture Similar Majors Communication (B.A.) Horticulture (B.S.) Secondary Education (B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM With agriculture as a leading industry in South Carolina, there are many opportunities to feel its impact within just a few short steps of the classroom. Our Ag Ed program places an emphasis on learning through doing and requires all students to complete an internship or student teaching semester. Experience Depending on the selected concentration, each student is required to complete one semester of experiential learning. This semester is fundamental for putting into practice the theories and ideas learned through the program. Network Each year, the Clemson Collegiate FFA Chapter sends some members to the National FFA Convention. Programming for collegiate members allows for professional development opportunities and career-focused networking. FFA Clemson's Collegiate FFA Chapter provides members professionally relevant workshops, speakers and networking. They also support the S.C. FFA Association through activities such as career development events. Tour You'll regularly be required to get out and see firsthand where our graduates are in industry and how agriculture takes product from the field or forest to the table or retail store. Study Abroad Each year, agricultural education students have the chance to travel to Russia and enroll in a semester of agricultural communications course work while gaining a unique cultural experience. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Ag Mech Club Block and Bridle Horticulture Club AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Agriculture Teacher Woodmont Middle School Agriculture Teacher Silver Bluff High School 4-H Youth Development Clemson Extension Extension Associate UGA Cooperative Extension Service External Sales Helena Agri-Enterprise RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.S. Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication Texas A&M University M.S. Agricultural Communications Oklahoma State University M.S. Agricultural Communications Texas Tech University Ph.D. Turfgrass Management Oklahoma State University M.S. Wildlife and Fisheries Biology Clemson University COMMON CAREER AREAS Education Teaching Administration Student Affairs Extension Agricultural Extension Service Family Consumer Sciences Education 4-H and Youth Development Economic and Community Development Agricultural Leadership Sales Management Human Resources Organizational Training Management Consulting Policy Development Governmental Relations Community Development Informal Education Agricultural Communications Journalism Public Relations Technical/Scientific Writing Advertising Sales Promotion Government and Nonprofit State and Federal Conservation Health and Regulatory Inspection Agricultural Inspection Policy Analysis Legislation Association Representation FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Madison Cutts Coordinator of Student Recruitment mcutts@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Agricultural Education (B.S.) Communication (B.A.) Horticulture (B.S.) Secondary Education (B.A.)