Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Home About People Postdoctoral Training Research Find a Study Alcohol research studies HIV research studies Marijuana research studies Tobacco research studies Studies for adults Studies for teens News Site Navigation Home About Our History Our Mission People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Postdoctoral Training Didactics Diversity People Core Faculty Trainers Affiliated Trainers Current Fellows Alumni - 2016 to present Alumni - 1989 - 2015 Application Benefits/Stipend Research Alcohol HIV/AIDS Prevention Health Disparities/Health Equity Marijuana & Other Drug Use Nicotine Find a Study Alcohol research studies HIV research studies Marijuana research studies Tobacco research studies Studies for adults Studies for teens News Alcohol research studies The following are alcohol research studies being conducted by the Brown University School of Public Health, which are looking for active participants: Acute Neural and Immune Effects of Alcohol in People Living with HIV Infection Interested in participating in research on the immune system? About: Brown University is conducting a study on alcohol, the brain, and the immune system. Who: Ages 21-60. Able to consume alcohol safely. Able to consume nuts & soy safely. Free of metal devices or implants in the body. Able to attend 2 visits at our lab. Compensation: Participants will be compensated up to $220 for their time and effort. This study does not involve medication or treatment For more information please call 401-793-4317, or email [email protected] Study Flyer Protocol Number 1904002429 Alcohol and Immune Response Who: Participants must be: ages 21-55; free of health problems that require medication; able to consume alcohol safely; and able to attend 4 visits at our lab. About: Interested in participating in research on alcohol use? Brown University is conducting a study on drinking and the immune system. This study does not involve medication or treatment. Time Involved: Up to 4 study visits Compensation: Participants will be compensated up to $350 for their time and effort. Contact Information: Email: [email protected]; text: 401-523-8130; voice: 401-863-6640 View, Print or Download Flyer Alcohol and Stress Study About: This study is a non-treatment study that involves receiving the oral administration of a medication under a stress-induced condition. Who: For participants who drink alcohol that are interested in seeking treatment, and are between the ages of 18 - 70. Time Involved: Study participation involves 11 outpatient visits over 16 weeks. Compensation: You may receive up to a maximum of $565 for your time. For more information please call (401) 863-6646, or email [email protected] All calls/emails will be held in strict confidence Drinking and Smoking Study About: A brain imaging research study. This study involves the use of nasal spray. Who: Adults (18-60 years old) cigarette smokers and alcohol drinkers who smoke 1 ½ packs of cigarettes a week and drink regularly. Time Involved: 3 Visits Compensation: Up to $250 For more information please call/text 401-424-1813, or email alcoholsmokestudy@brown.edu Drinking and Smoking Study Flyer Project ACE Who: Age 18-30 About: We are looking for research volunteers in the Providence area who drink alcohol and use cannabis regularly to participate in a paid confidential research study from Brown University. Time Involved: Participation involves completing interviews, filling out questionnaires, and the use of an alcohol sensor bracelet and smart phones to report on alcohol and other substance use in daily life for four weeks. Procedures will occur remotely (via videoconference) with the option of an in-person session. Compensation: Participants will be compensated up to $450 for their participation. Contact: acestudy@brown.edu or (401) 863-6635 See if you are eligible Project ARC Who: Do you drink alcohol? Are you between the ages of 18-25? About: You may be eligible to participate in a study on the drinking experiences of young adults. Participation will involve annual in-person sessions, online surveys, and three separate month-long daily data collection periods over the course of two years. Daily data collection includes surveys via a mobile app and wearing a biosensor bracelet that detects your drinking. All data collection is confidential Time involved: Participation will involve annual in-person sessions, online surveys, and three separate month-long daily data collection periods over the course of two years. Compensation: If eligible, you can receive up to $337 over 1 month in the first year, and up to $732 total over the course of the study. Some participants may be eligible for up to $1,026 over the course of the study. You may be compensated though a reloadable spending card or an Amazon.com gift card. Contact: With any questions, contact [email protected] or 401-863-2485. View Study Flyer See if you may be eligible Protocol #2883. Principal Investigator: Merrill. Brown University’s Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences. Project ATOM Who: Teens 14-19 About: Are you a teenager thinking about cutting back or quitting drinking? Brown University is currently looking for teenagers interested in reducing their alcohol use to participate in a voluntary research study. The study consists of 6 weeks of an investigational study medication or placebo, using a smart phone app and weekly meetings. Time Involved: 9 weeks with 3 and 6 month follow up Compensation: $510 Contact person: Audrey at 401- 863-6720 or [email protected] or go to Tinyurl.com/ATOMBrown for more information." Complete the Screener Project HYPE (Healthy People in their Environments) About: The study is interested in how young adults respond to their environment relating to alcohol use. Who: For 15-17 year olds who use alcohol about twice a week or more on average. Time Involved: This includes a 45 minute remote enrollment session on Zoom, and then a 17 day survey window where 4 surveys are sent to your phone using an app. Participants use an app to take 4 surveys throughout the day, and take survey on their own when they start and stop drinking. Compensation: Participants can earn up to $245, compensation is based on how many surveys you complete. Contact: Maria Zonfrillo at 401-425-3645 or email [email protected] for more information. Take the Screener Project LTG: Who: Teens 16-19 About: Are you a teenager thinking about cutting back or quitting drinking? Brown University is currently looking for teenagers interested in reducing their alcohol use to participate in a voluntary research study. The study consists of 9 weeks of an investigational study medication or placebo, using a smart phone app and weekly meetings. Time Involved: 14 weeks with 3 month follow up Compensation: $527 Contact person: Audrey at 401- 863-6720 or [email protected] Complete the Screener Project RAVEN Project Name: Project RAVEN Who: We are seeking freshmen, sophomores and juniors at Brown who drink alcohol and want to contribute to an online research study on the development of novel health promotion programs. About: Help to evaluate novel programs for potential use with other students. Time involved: One Zoom session and three 30-minute online follow-up surveys Compensation: Participants will be compensated up to $115 for their contribution to this study. Complete this 3-minute survey to see if you're eligible: https://brown.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_6PxBE8H7YcC3MAl Contact info: Email: [email protected]; Call: Jake Tempchin (401) 863-6631 Study info: Use of this website for recruiting participants has been approved under protocol #1906002478 by Brown's Human Research Protection Program. View, Download, or Print Flyer Research Study for Reducing Drinking All participants must be age 21 and over Are you interested in reducing or stopping your alcohol use? The Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies at Brown University is testing whether a medication reduces alcohol use. Weekly visits over an 10 week period· Answer questions about your health, alcohol use, and participate in 2 laboratory sessions You are compensated for your time· Participation is confidential If you’re interested, call Brianna at: (401) 863-6687 or email [email protected] Simultaneous Use Patterns (SUP) Study About: A non-treatment research study involving individuals who use alcohol and other drugs at the same time so that their effects overlap Who: Participants must be between 18 and 35 years of age Time involved: Study participation involves a 75-minute remote individual interview Compensation: Participants will be provided a $50 Amazon.com gift card for their participation To learn more about the study and see if you are eligible to participate, visit https://tinyurl.com/ProjectSUP-info You must have a valid form of ID to participate. Regardless of eligibility, completing the screener will enter you into a raffle to win a $50 Amazon gift card! To complete the screener, visit https://tinyurl.com/ProjectSUP-screener Simultaneous Use Patterns (SUP) Study Flyer Stress Alcohol Study Do You Drink Alcohol? A non-treatment research study involving individuals who are heavy alcohol drinking individuals is being conducted at Brown University. Study participation involves 6 outpatient visits over NINE weeks. Study involves receiving the oral administration of a medication under stress-induced condition. Participants must be between 21 and 65 years of age. Participants may be compensated up to $348 for their participation. For more information (401) 863-6646 or email at [email protected] All calls/emails will be held in strict confidence. Teen Media Study Who: Teens age 15-19 About: We are looking for teens age 15-19 to participate in a 90-minute group discussion about use of different media sources and exposure to alcohol and drinking in the media. Time Involved: 90-minutes Compensation: Participants will receive $30 to Amazon for participating in the group discussion. Participants will also have a one-in-five chance to win an additional $25 Amazon gift card for completing a brief survey before the group discussion. Contact: [email protected] or (720) 506-1698 See if you are eligible Find a Study Alcohol research studies HIV research studies Marijuana research studies Tobacco research studies Studies for adults Studies for teens Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Brown University Box G-S121-5 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6600 Fax: 401-863-6697 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top