Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Undergraduate Admissions Menu Search TTU Undergraduate Admissions Application Fee We require a non-refundable application fee of $75 to complete your application. If you have paid or plan to pay the fee on your ApplyTexas application, there is no need to pay again. PAY APPLICATION FEE ONLINE If paying with personal check or cashier's check, please include applicant's full name and date of birth on check. Please mail the check to the following address. Texas Tech University Attn: Undergraduate Admissions PO Box 45005 Lubbock, TX 79409 Fee Waivers The Office of Undergraduate Admissions supports a fee waiver program for qualifying freshman and transfer applicants. The waiver covers the cost of the application fee to Texas Tech University. To qualify, the applicant must demonstrate the application fee presents a significant financial hardship and be one of the following: a United States Citizen, or a U.S. Permanent Resident, or a student identified under Senate Bill 1528 (79th Legislature, 2005) as a resident of Texas. Texas Tech does not accept ACT, SAT, NACAC, or other outside fee waivers for undergraduate applications. Under this fee waiver program, the following applicants are ineligible for a fee waiver and are required to pay the application or reactivation fee. International Applicants Returning Former Tech Applicants Second-Degree Applicants Visiting Transient/Non-Degree Applicants Full-time TTU/TTUHSC staff and faculty, including spouses and dependents, applying as undergraduate students at Texas Tech University may qualify for the TTU Undergraduate Staff/Faculty Fee Waiver. Please review the Staff/Faculty Fee Waiver Form for more details. An application must be received before a fee waiver can be applied. Qualifying applicants may request a fee waiver by submitting their application via goapplytexas.org, commonapp.org, or mycoalition.org. When prompted for a payment, please select the fee waiver request option to allow the application to be submitted. Selecting a fee waiver on the application does not guarantee your fee will be waived. As stated in the application, all fee waivers will be processed by Texas Tech to determine eligibility. Individuals who do not qualify for a waiver will be responsible for payment of the application fee. Applicants will submit documentation to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions to verify their eligibility via one of the following options listed below: Option 1 Submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at www.fafsa.ed.gov. The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) for the academic award year of 2022-2023 opens Oct. 1, 2021. 2022-2023 FAFSA information will be made available to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions approximately Nov. 1, 2021, for fee waiver review. To list Texas Tech University on the FAFSA application, enter the FICE code 003644 under school information. Each applicant is different and unique; therefore, eligibility requirements differ between traditional freshman, non-traditional freshman, and transfer applicants. The following is a brief explanation of each applicant type and the eligibility requirements through FAFSA: Traditional Freshman A traditional freshman applicant is a current High School Senior. Each applicant must demonstrate their family's income is equal to or less than the Income Eligibility Guidelines for National School Lunch Program. Income Eligibility Guidelines Household Size Total Income 1 $23,828 2 $32,227 3 $40,626 4 $49,025 5 $57,424 6 $65,823 Add $8,399 for each additional person over 6. Source: USDA Food & Nutrition Service Non-Traditional Freshman & Transfers A non-traditional freshman applicant is a high school graduate that has not attended a college or university. A transfer applicant is a student that has attempted/earned college credit from a college or university post-high school. Both non-traditional freshman & transfer applicants must have an Estimated Family Contribution (EFC) of zero dollars ($0), as calculated by FAFSA. Option 2 Submit the Texas Tech Application Fee Waiver Request Form. In conjunction with the Texas Tech Application Fee Waiver Request form, applicants must submit supporting documentation. Failure to provide the correct supporting documentation will delay the review of the fee waiver request. All documentation must be attached to the Texas Tech Application Fee Waiver Form, and submission of this request does not guarantee approval. The following are the approved documentation options. Submit the correct supporting documentation based on your current circumstance. I am a current high school senior, and my family's total income is at or below the federal economic index for the National School Lunch Program. Provide a copy of your family's 2020 tax return, pages 1 & 2. The title of the necessary tax form will be Form 1040 U.S Individual Income Tax Return. I am a current high school senior who is Homeless/an Unaccompanied Youth. Provide a letter from your high school district's Homeless Liaison that verifies this status. I am homeless. Provide a letter from the current homeless shelter that verifies this status. My family and I receive public assistance (SNAP, TANF, WIC, etc.). Provide a current copy of the formal award letter from the public assistance agency. I live in subsidized public housing. Provide a current copy of the formal housing letter from the public housing agency. I am a person who is deaf. Provide a copy of the certification by the Texas Department of Assistive and Rehabilitative Services or the Office for Deaf and Hard of Hearing Services. I am a person who is blind. Provide a copy of the certification by the Texas Department of Assistive and Rehabilitative Services or the Division for Blind Services. I was adopted from/placed in foster care under the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services. Provide a copy of your state college tuition & fee waiver from the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services. Failure to provide the correct documentation will delay the review of the fee waiver request. Submission of the Texas Tech Application Fee Waiver Request Form does not guarantee approval. All documentation must be attached to the Texas Tech Application Fee Waiver Form. Please send the completed form and all supporting documentation to our office via mail, fax or email: Texas Tech University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Box 45005 Lubbock, TX 79409-5005 Fax: 806.742.0062 Email: admissions@ttu.edu Have questions or need assistance? Our staff is here to help. Undergraduate Admissions 2500 Broadway, West Hall Room 100 Box 45005 Lubbock, TX 79409-5005 Phone: 806.742.1480 Fax: 806.742.0062 admissions@ttu.edu Undergraduate Admissions Like Undergraduate Admissions on FacebookLike Undergraduate Admissions on Facebook Follow Undergraduate Admissions on twitterFollow Undergraduate Admissions on twitter Follow Undergraduate Admissions on InstagramFollow Undergraduate Admissions on Instagram Address Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-1480 Email admissions@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityDec 21, 2021 3:54 PM Undergraduate Admissions Admission Undergraduate Admissions Admission Back Become a Red Raider Undergraduate Admissions Admission Become a Red Raider Back I'm Admitted I’m a High School Student I’m a Transfer Student I’m a Former Tech Student I’m an International Student My Students Want to be Red Raiders Admission Resources Undergraduate Admissions Admission Admission Resources Back En Español Find my Counselor Important Dates Other Admission Residency Determination Resources Request Information Academics Undergraduate Admissions Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Admissions Academics Academics Back Areas of Study Majors A-Z Colleges Online and Regional Programs Enrichment Undergraduate Admissions Academics Enrichment Back Undergraduate Research Study Abroad Honors College Preparation for Success Explore Undergraduate Admissions Academics Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Chat with Current Students Campus Tours & Events Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Back Schedule a Tour Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Schedule a Tour Back Campus Tours Large Group Tours Contact Us Attend an Event Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Attend an Event Back On-Campus Events Regional Events Explore Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Explore Back Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Campus Life Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Back Live Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Live Back Campus Experience Dining Housing Safety Connect Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Connect Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Spirit & Traditions Student Organizations Recreation Explore Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Chat with Current Students Cost & Aid Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Back Find Value at Texas Tech Financial Aid Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Net Cost Calculator Important Dates Financial Aid Forms Scholarships Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Scholarships Back For Incoming Freshmen For Incoming Transfers Frequently Asked Questions Explore Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index