Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Search Arts & Culture Athletics Give Library MyRIC News & Events Information For Open the Information For menu Active Military/Veterans Alumni Current Students Early Enrollment Students Parents & Families Faculty Retirees Returning Students Staff Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions & Financial Aid Undergraduate Admissions Rhode Island College offers the most affordable high-quality four-year degree in the region. Get started now on your journey to success. Graduate Admissions Rhode Island College ranks number one among public master’s universities in New England according to Washington Monthly. The fastest and most affordable path to your advanced degree begins here. Professional Studies & Continuing Education Registration Whether you’re trying to advance your career through professional development or jumpstart your education through workforce development or cultural programs, RIC offers a range of flexible non-degree and certificate programs to meet your needs. Get started now. MyRIC Accepted Students Campus Map Financial Aid Request Information Foundation Scholarship Opportunities Tuition & Fees Visit Our Campus Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs The path to career advancement begins at Rhode Island College. Find your start at Rhode Island College by viewing the list of our degrees and programs. Graduate Programs Even now in these uncertain times, we must BE BOLD. There is no better time to advance your career with a graduate degree from Rhode Island College. Professional Studies & Continuing Education Programs RIC supports a variety of professional development, workforce development, continuing education, adult education and community programs and initiatives that serve the interests and needs of working professionals, adult students, community members and those seeking to attain training and skills to enter or reenter the workforce. Academic Calendar Academic Support and Resources Blackboard College Catalog Course Bulletin Office of Graduate Studies Our Faculty Real World Experience Schools and Departments Student Success and Outcomes Student Experience Student Experience Commuting to Campus Dining Services Explore Providence and Rhode Island Living on Campus New Student Programs/Orientation School/Life Balance Student Activities and Organizations Student Community Government Student Health, Wellness and Support Meet Rhode Island College Meet Rhode Island College President Frank D. Sánchez Campus & Sustainability Campus Police College Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Mission, Vision & Core Values Our History Student Consumer Information Title IX Biology Preprofessional Preparation Program Department Directory Department of Biology Department of Biology Undergraduate Programs Biology Preprofessional Preparation Program If you are interested in dental, medical, optometry or veterinary school, the Preprofessional Program will provide excellent preparation. To qualify for admission to dental, medical, optometry or veterinary school, you must present a strong liberal arts background, show competency in writing, competency in your chosen academic major and demonstrate some knowledge of work in the laboratory sciences. Although neither a specific major nor a specific program of study is required for application to these preprofessional programs, a biology or chemistry major will provide an excellent foundation. In addition, most schools will require the results of your performance on standardized tests of verbal and quantitative analytical abilities, knowledge in certain content areas and analytical and critical thinking. Beginning in your freshman year, consult with your preprofessional advisor concerning a plan of study and application procedures to a professional school. Since individual schools have specific course requirements, it is essential to consult with your advisor early in the program of study. You should also supplement your major with the following courses: BIOL 111, BIOL 112, CHEM 103, CHEM 104, CHEM 205, CHEM 206, CHEM 310, PHYS 101, PHYS 102, and two or three courses in advanced biology, chosen in consultation with your advisor. If you are interested in premed, you should also take PSYC 110 and SOC 200 in preparation for the MCAT. It is strongly recommended that you take mathematics sequences through calculus as well as intermediate or advanced courses in a foreign language. Each year, our faculty members are able to nominate several students who are Rhode Island residents as candidates for the Early Identification Program at Brown University’s Alpert Medical School. Students who are accepted into this competitive program and who successfully complete their undergraduate coursework at Rhode Island College can be accepted into Brown’s medical school upon graduation. Complete details are available from the premedical advisor. Request Information Visit Apply Click to return to the home page place 600 Mt. Pleasant Ave Providence, RI 02908 local_phone 401-456-8000 email theweb@ric.edu Contact us for more information Academics Admissions & Financial Aid Meet Rhode Island College Student Experience People Directory Department Directory Careers MyRIC Starfish Web Accessibility Webmail Website Feedback Form Social Media Links Instagram Youtube Facebook Twitter ©2022 Rhode Island College. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy