Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Institute For Strategy & Competitiveness About The Institute Research Areas Research Areas Health Care Competitiveness & Economic Development Creating Shared Value Strategy CEO Leadership Philanthropy Environmental Quality Antitrust & Competition Policy Innovation & Innovative Capacity Social Progress Index Resources Resources Courses Data Events & Presentations Frameworks News Publications Video Health Care Competitiveness & Economic Development Creating Shared Value Strategy About Michael Porter HBS→ISC Harvard Business Review: Smart, Connected Products Health Care: Value-Based Health Care U.S. COMPETITIVENESS: Competition in the Politics Industry The Institute for Strategy and Competitiveness is a nonprofit research, education, and policy organization founded by Michael Porter and based at Harvard Business School in Boston, Massachusetts. Our mission is to advance scholarship; develop practical, research-based frameworks; and educate and advise leaders and policymakers. More About the institute More about michael porter The Politics Industry The American political system is broken. How do we fix it? Start by understanding how it actually works. Order today: RECENT Publications Integrated Practice Units: A Playbook for Health Care Leaders NEJM Catalyst | Vol. 2 No. 1 | January 2021 To compete successfully in an increasingly value-oriented marketplace, health care providers must adopt a strategic Value Agenda that delivers outcomes that matter to patients through comprehensive care-delivery methods that progressively improve effectiveness and efficiency. How Porter's Five Forces Framework Can Help Fix U.S. Politics (Video) Unhealthy competition is at the root of political dysfunction. Michael Porter's famous framework can help identify the best ways to fix it. See all publications Recent & Upcoming Events Purpose and Profit: Creating Shared Value Online | Oct 24 - Nov 4, 2022 | Tuition: $5,000 Mounting social and environmental pressures are reshaping the competitive landscape for companies in every industry. Increasingly, companies are expected to adopt a social purpose and practice stakeholder capitalism, and yet few companies know how to do so in ways that also strengthen their performance. Investors are also paying a premium for ESG leaders, but most companies fail to explain how their sustainability efforts create value for shareholders. See all events In the news Why Do We Let Political Parties Act Like Monopolies? The New York Times, May 20, 2019 KU Leuven's Documentary on Shared Value KU Leuven, February 11, 2019 See all media mentions Data & External Sites U.S. Cluster Mapping Portal "Mapping a nation of regional clusters" Why Competition in the Politics Industry is Failing America "A strategy for reinvigorating our democracy" See more Institute data resources Twitter Connect with Michael Porter Essential Reading In health care, the days of business as usual are over. Around the world, every health care system is struggling with rising costs and uneven quality despite the hard work of well-intentioned, well-trained clinicians. Health care leaders and policy makers have tried countless incremental fixes—attacking fraud, reducing errors, enforcing practice guidelines, making patients better “consumers,” implementing electronic medical records—but none have had much impact. It’s time for a fundamentally new strategy. The Strategy That Will Fix Health Care Competitive advantage. The value chain. Five forces. Industry structure. Differentiation. Relative cost. If you want to understand how companies achieve and sustain competitive success, Michael Porter's frameworks are the foundation. But while everyone in business may know Porter's name, many managers misunderstand and misuse his concepts. Understanding Michael Porter sets the record straight, providing a concise, accessible summary of Porter's revolutionary thinking. Understanding Michael Porter ǁ Institute for Strategy & Competitiveness Harvard Business School Ludcke House Boston, MA 02163 Email: isc@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College