Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Our Team Services Evaluation Research Reports and Articles Contact Us CORE CORE Our Team Services Research Advancing Evaluation In Philanthropy Fellowship Evaluation Projects Reports and Articles Become a CLASS Observer Contact Us ☰ Center on Research and Evaluation (CORE) Simmons Research Center on Research and Evaluation (CORE) CORE to Support Philanthropy Fellowship SMU CENTER ON RESEARCH AND EVALUATION RECEIVES GRANT FROM WALTON FAMILY FOUNDATION TO SUPPORT NEW FELLOWSHIP Fellows will advance collaborations between evaluation and philanthropy. DALLAS – April 2022 – The Center on Research and Evaluation (CORE) at the Simmons School of Education and Human Development has been awarded a three-year, $630,000 grant to support the launch of the new Advancing Evaluation in Philanthropy Fellowship Program. To learn more about the Fellowship, click here. Download the press release CORE provides comprehensive early learning assessment, reporting, and evaluation services to Child Care Associates, located in Fort Worth, Texas. Child Care Associates provides high-quality early learning experiences to young children, delivers child care financial assistance and other vital resources to parents, and offers professional development opportunities to educators. CORE serves as a data partner to multiple early childhood organizations utilizing the CLASS™ tool to improve classroom instruction. CORE trains observers on the CLASS™ observation system, maintains secure data, and develops formative reports and presentations for the district, feeder patterns, individual schools and individual teachers as well as non-profit partners and funders. CORE is partnering with Big Thought, Dallas Afterschool and Dallas ISD to provide the Expanded Learning Information System (ELIS), a shared data system that streamlines and supports data collection and data usage for after and summer school sites across the city of Dallas. CORE serves a critical operations and support role for the West Dallas STEM School project. The STEM school is a collaboration between Simmons School of Education and Human Development, DallasISD, and the Toyota Foundation to plan, implement and support a PreK-8 STEM School in West Dallas. CORE is a long-term research, evaluation and thought partner for Teach For America. Teach For America works to advance educational excellence and equity in the US through a network of diverse leaders working to expand access and opportunity to all children. Previous Next pause play hide show The Mission of CORE The Center on Research and Evaluation (CORE) is dedicated to supporting and expanding SMU’s commitment to teaching, research, and service in communities and the larger global society. CORE conducts high-quality collaborative research and evaluation to drive positive and sustainable change in individuals, schools, organizations and communities. Download the CORE information sheet Center on Research and Evaluation (CORE) Our Team Our Services Key Research Projects Advancing Evaluation In Philanthropy Fellowship Our Approach to Evaluation Projects Reports and Articles Become a CLASS Observer Contact Us Upcoming Events Tweets by SMU_CORE Contact the Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Contact Us 214-768-7715 core@smu.edu Visit Us 6116 N. Central Expressway Suite 400 Dallas, Texas 75275 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter