Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Internationally acclaimed clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky joins CCM’s faculty Vinnitsky is one of the most in demand clarinet performers and sought after teachers in the US By Curt Whitacre Email CurtEmail Curt 513-556-2683 May 27, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. Vinnitsky’s appointment as Associate Professor of Clarinet begins on Aug. 15, 2022. CCM faculty member Pavel Vinnitsky. Photo/Matt Dine A native of Ukraine and Israel who has called the US home for the last 20 years, Vinnitsky has gained international acclaim through numerous solo, chamber music and orchestral appearances at major concert venues around the world and is recognized as one of the most in demand clarinet performers and sought after teachers in the US. During the 2016-22 performance seasons, he has served as an acting clarinet section member with the New York Philharmonic. He has also served as an Associate Clarinetist with the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra since 2009. Vinnitsky regularly appears as a guest clarinetist with the Chicago Symphony, Orpheus Chamber Orchestra, the American Symphony and the Orchestra of St. Luke's. In high demand as a chamber musician, Vinnitsky has been featured in performances with the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, the New York Philharmonic chamber music series and the Met Chamber Players at Carnegie Hall, as well as with the Wind Soloists of New York, the St. Luke’s Chamber Ensemble and the International Contemporary Ensemble. He is also on the artists roster of many international chamber music festivals. Together with his wife, concert pianist and composer Anna Vinnitsky, he toured internationally, presenting innovative programs of the standard and original music for clarinet and piano ensemble. His discography includes Grammy Award-winning recordings for Deutsche Grammophon with the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra and Orpheus Chamber Orchestra, Sonny Classical and Deca Gold albums with the New York Philharmonic, recordings for New World and Bridge Records labels, numerous broadcasts on WQXR, SiriusXM, Bavarian Radio as well as appearances on CBS and ABC TV channels and Israeli National TV. Vinnitsky can be heard on soundtracks for motion picture features produced by Warner Brothers, Universal Studios, Paramount Studios, Disney and 20th Century Fox, as well as TV series on Netflix and Amazon. He has collaborated in performances and recording projects with a number of rock and pop music stars including Sting, Lady Gaga, Tony Bennett, Paul McCartney and Peter Gabriel. An established educator, Vinnitsky actively appears in master classes at universities and music schools nationwide, including Juilliard and Yale School of Music. He has served on the faculty of New York University (2013-22) and currently teaches at the Interlochen Summer Clarinet Institute. Now an American citizen, Vinnitsky began his music education in his home country Ukraine where he studied clarinet with Boris Fisherman. In 1990 his family immigrated to Israel. There he attended Tel Aviv University studying under Professor Richard Lesser while performing with Youth Israel Philharmonic and touring extensively as a member of a klezmer trio. In 2003 he was accepted into the studio of David Shifrin at the Yale University School of Music and upon finishing his Master of Music degree moved to New York City and made United States his home. "Pavel Vinnitsky is a world-class performer and educator," said Romanstein. "He will be a wonderful addition to our faculty. I would like to thank the search committee — which was chaired by Kevin Michael Holzman and included Ronald Aufmann, James Bunte, Martin Garcia, Terence Milligan and Sandra Rivers — for their excellent work." Learn more about Pavel Vinnitsky Learn more about the study of clarinet at CCM Featured image at top: New CCM faculty member Pavel Vinnitsky. Photo/Chris Lee Additional Contacts Rebecca Butts | Assistant Public Information Officer | UC College-Conservatory of Music buttsrl@ucmail.uc.edu | 513-556-2675 Tags College-Conservatory of Music Faculty Staff Clarinet Woodwinds Brass and Percussion Arts & Culture Related Stories Imaging Technology News: First FLASH proton therapy trial... May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's John Breneman, MD, spoke with Imaging Technology News about the completion of enrollment of the FAST-01 trial, the first FLASH proton therapy trial completed in humans. Award-winning cellist Sæunn Thorsteinsdóttir joins CCM’s faculty May 27, 2022 UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of Icelandic cellist Sæunn Thorsteinsdóttir to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. Thorsteinsdóttir’s appointment as Assistant Professor of Cello begins on Aug. 15, 2022. Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top