Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Master's Degree Program Program: Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Whether you seek to manage a complex learning organization or team, launch an entrepreneurial venture, or drive an initiative that sparks new possibilities within an existing school, district, or network, the Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship (ELOE) Program at the Harvard Graduate School of Education will help you become an effective, strategic, and innovative leader within the field. Our program prepares you with the knowledge, skills, and dispositions to lead with impact in diverse roles, including preK–12, higher education, the nonprofit sector, government, and philanthropy. With a focus on change management, organizational leadership, and entrepreneurial principles, this program equips you to envision, enact, scale, and transform. “So many people hear the word ‘organization’ and think ‘business.’ But students who want to improve education and become education leaders – either at the school level, state level, or national level – have to understand how schools work. Recognizing the importance of organizational dynamics, the role of leaders, and the potential impact of entrepreneurship, is critical, and these concepts are at the heart of our program.” Ebony Bridwell-Mitchell, Faculty Co-Chair The ELOE Program will help students prepare to lead for impact — to bring greater access, equity, agency, and excellence to education. The program's curriculum is anchored in the following competencies: Lead change and think strategically Foster productive organizational conditions Navigate politics and practice political inclusion Communicate effectively Develop self and others Curriculum Information The ELOE Program is designed to provide a set of scaffolded learning experiences helping students to grow along the five ELOE core competencies, gaining the knowledge, skills, and dispositions needed to have impact in professional roles as education leaders, organizational innovators, and entrepreneurs. A minimum of 42 credits are required to graduate with an Ed.M. degree from HGSE. The main elements of the 2022–23 academic year curriculum are: The Foundation courses (14 credits) are How People Learn, Leading Change, Evidence, and Equity and Opportunity, in which students gain core skills central to the profession of education. This program commences with How People Learn, an immersive online course that runs June–July and requires a time commitment of 10-15 hours per week. You will continue Foundations with Leading Change, Evidence, and Equity and Opportunity on campus in August. The final component of Foundations is an Equity and Opportunity elective, which will take place during terms when electives are available. To fulfill the program requirement, students must take a minimum of 12 credits specific to ELOE, including the following: The ELOE Program Core Experience (4 credits) is a yearlong set of experiences, including field-oriented panels, case discussions, simulations, skills-based workshops, and peer-supported professional development opportunities in micro-learning communities. This also includes the ELOE Self-Assessment and Individual Development Plan, which allows you to reflect on and track your development over time, across key indicators for each of the ELOE core competencies. Students must enroll in their first fall semester. ELOE Course Distribution List (a minimum of 8 credits), which is a curated set of courses specializing in one or more of the ELOE core competencies. At least one selected course must fall on the ELOE continuum of field-based learning. There are over 80 distribution courses to choose from, which cover subject matter including leading organizations; education sector nonprofits; educational innovation, social entrepreneurship; and race, equity, and leadership. The remaining credits are taken via elective coursework, which includes the opportunity to specialize in a Concentration. Explore our course catalog. Note, all information and courses are subject to change. Program Faculty Students will work closely with faculty associated with their area of study, but students can also work with and take courses with faculty throughout HGSE and Harvard. The faculty co-chairs for ELOE are Ebony Bridwell-Mitchell and Jen Cheatham. View our faculty directory for a full list of HGSE faculty. Ebony N. Bridwell-Mitchell Jennifer Perry Cheatham Uche B Amaechi Bianca J. Baldridge Whitney Benns Candice Bocala Kathryn Parker Boudett Elizabeth City Debbie Heller Goldstein Monica C. Higgins James P. Honan Deborah Jewell-Sherman Lisa Laskow Lahey Karen L. Mapp Timothy Patrick McCarthy Judith Block McLaughlin Richard Melvoin Sebastian Munoz-Najar Galvez Mary Grassa O'Neill Gabrielle Oliveira Francesca Purcell Arun Kodangudi Ramanathan Alexis Redding Paul Reville Irvin Leon Scott Gillien Sarah Todd Career Pathways The ELOE Program prepares you for a variety of career pathways, including: Education nonprofit CEO/COO Entrepreneur/organization founder College or university administrator Principal or head of school School district or network leader School designer and developer Educational advocate and organizer Public official or administrator Education consultant Outcomes Today’s complex education landscape calls for innovative leaders who not only have the ability to design a vision for their learning context, but also deliver it so it becomes a reality. Our Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Program will provide the skills, knowledge, and dispositions you need to make a transformative impact. Here are profiles of several recent graduates who have studied education leadership: Asking the Hard Questions: Daniela García Estrella, ELOE'22 The Intellectual Contribution Award recipient for Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship reflects on her time at HGSE and looks toward the future. Reshaping Reading With their new app — launched in the pandemic — two alums give teachers a tool to identify struggling readers and provide personalized support. Cohort and Community The ELOE experience is not only about strengthening knowledge, skills and dispositions but also about building a community of colleagues who can provide support during the program and for years afterwards as you work together to transform the field. The ELOE Program purposefully works to honor and build on the diverse backgrounds and experiences of students — from countries and regions around the world – by providing a varied set of cohort-based, community-building experiences. The aim of these experiences is to build a network of current students and future alumni united by a shared commitment to leading for excellence, equity, and impact in the field of education. Tell us about yourself so that we can tailor our communication to best fit your interests and provide you with relevant information about our programs, events, and other opportunities to connect with us. Introduce Yourself Admissions Information Learn more about our admissions application requirements and instructions, tuition and financial aid, recorded webinars, download a brochure, and find answers to frequently asked questions. Connect with Admissions If you have additional admissions-related questions, please contact Paola Muñoz. Additional ELOE Resources Distinctive Features (1:22) Curriculum (0:42) Career Outcomes (0:44) Ideal Candidates (0:41) Connect with Program Staff If you have remaining program-specific questions, please contact ELOE Assistant Director Karen Bottari. In this section Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Master's Degree Program Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice