Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Students Contact your Advisor Advising Resources and Tools Transfer Credit Home Overview and Checklist Types of Transfer Credit Transfer Equivalency Database Credit Evaluation Forms Transfer Articulation Agreements Accreditation for Transfer Credit COVID-19 FAQs for Credit Evaluation College Credit Plus Home CCP Admission Requirements Apply to CCP Academic Advising Textbooks & Supplies High School Partnerships FAQ Contact 15 to Finish Students FAQ Resources For Advisors UC Advising Conference About Organization Advising Strategic Plan Assessment Organization Advising Strategic Plan Assessment Home About About the Office of Advising & Academic Services The Office of Advising & Academic Services provides technology, tools, and resources to ensure high-quality advising at UC. Some of the technology and tools are provided specifically for you as a student to use, such as Starfish scheduling, My Graduation Plan, and the degree audit tool. Other tools and resources are designed for your advisor to help them provide you with the best advising. In addition to tools and resources, we deliver training and professional development for advisors and leadership support for advising directors, so our advising staff can continue to offer high-quality advising. We also coordinate assessments and surveys to determine the advising needs of our students to ensure advising expectations are met. We also provide direct leadership to the Credit Evaluation Center, New Student Orientation and specialized advising offices, including College Credit Plus for high school students taking undergraduate level courses at UC; Transfer & Transition Advising Center for incoming transfer students and current UC students changing their major; and Pre-Professional Advising for students interested in pursuing health profession schools and law school. Advising mission and vision Mission The UC Advising community engages and supports students through teaching and collaboration to achieve their academic, personal, and professional goals. Vision The UC Advising community will advance a personalized educational environment in which: All students achieve their goals through exploration, reflection, and engagement. We are committed to inclusion, teaching, and lifelong learning. We are global leaders in advising practice, scholarship, and innovation. Office of Advising & Academic Services 2618 McMicken Circle University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221-0202 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.