Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Current Issue Past Issues About Rutgers Magazine Logo Rutgers Magazine Logo Advertising Contact Us Search Menu Current Issue Past Issues About Advertising Contact Us Search Explore Sections Close Search Search Rutgers Magaine Search Features On the Banks Scarlet Sports The Arts Health Matters Insights Alumni News Letters This Is What Excellence Looks Like With the return of campus life, president Jonathan Holloway begins meeting and interviewing students, professors, alumni, and staff who personify the essence of commitment and excellence. Read about each of them and watch the conversations. In a League of Their Own The Rutgers community celebrates the newest inductees into the Rutgers Hall of Distinguished Alumni. Read their stories and watch videos about their achievements. Ushering In a New Era Amid two days of celebratory events, Jonathan Holloway is inaugurated as the 21st president of Rutgers. See the photos and videos that tell the whole story. 12 Under 40 Profiles of 12 Rutgers alumni under the age of 40 who are making a difference with their creativity, achievements, and drive. Winter2022 Magazine Top Stories Health Matters Solving the Mystery of Disease The Protein Data Bank at Rutgers celebrates its 50th anniversary and its impact on improving human health near and far. Scarlet Sports A Wild Ride! The Scarlet Knights women’s soccer team wins the 2021 regular season Big Ten Championship, the first in Rutgers Athletics history. On the Banks A Greener Rutgers Jonathan Holloway underscores Rutgers’ commitment to carbon neutrality by formally accepting the Climate Action Plan for Rutgers to achieve carbon neutrality by 2040. The Arts Singing Their History The Rutgers University Glee Club celebrates its 150th anniversary. Health Matters Nurses’ Aid Nurse2Nurse, a new confidential helpline at Rutgers, connects overtaxed nurses with mental health assistance. Scarlet Sports World-Beater After a remarkable career as a professional soccer player that featured memorable performances in international competition, alumna Carli Lloyd retires. On the Banks A Promising Development President Jonathan Holloway touts the virtues of the Scarlet Promise Grants program, which gives undergraduates need-based financial aid and emergency support. Scarlet Sports Champs! The field hockey team wins the Big Ten Tournament championship, a first for a Scarlet Knights team competing in the conference. Health Matters Behavioral Care for Young People Alumna Marlene Brandt presides over a groundbreaking ceremony for the Brandt Behavioral Health Treatment Center and Residence. The Arts Wealthy and Wise for the New Year In his new book, Buffett's Tips, alumnus John M. Longo shares the secret ingredients for achieving financial literacy based on the advice of Warren Buffett. Visit Rutgers Today Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster