About Faculty and Staff Student Leadership and Ethics Board Join The Student Leadership & Ethics Board Partnerships Contact Us Curricular Initiatives The Individual, Business and Society Curriculum (IBSC) The Phillips Pathway for Inclusive Leadership (PPIL) Program The Reuben Mark Initiative for Organizational Character and Leadership About Reuben Mark Leadership Team Leadership Digital Collection Research Research Briefs for Leaders Events The Botwinick Prize in Business Ethics About Benjamin Botwinick '26 The KPMG Peat Marwick / Stanley R. Klion Forum About Stanley R. Klion The Paul M. Montrone Seminar Series on Ethics About Paul M. Montrone '66 Military Initiative Programming CBS – West Point Leadership and Ethics Exchange Leadership and Ethics: Military in Business Speaker Series Leadership and Ethics Week Diversity and Inclusion for All Engaging Men, Advancing Women Workshop Understanding the Interactions of Multiple Characteristics Leadership Conference Academic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Conference Restoring Trust: New Realities and New Possibilities for Business Leadership Conscious Capitalism: How Ethical Executives Move the Needle Forward, One Business Decision at a Time Lucy Quist: A Global Role Model for Business Leadership Two Industry Pioneers Lead the Change for Clean Energy The Great Debate on the Ethics of Pricing in the Drug Industry Leading With Courage: Top Industry Trailblazers Discuss Pathways to Restoring Trust in Business Innovation and the Value of Privacy Events Calendar Ethical Insights News SLEB Corner As the Leader TED Business Podcast Year 1: Season 1 Year 1: Season 2 Year 1: Season 3 Year 1: Season 4 Year 2: Season 1 Leadership Digital Collection Order 'Financial Innovation' DVD Support Us Directory The Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Center for Leadership and Ethics About Faculty and Staff Student Leadership and Ethics Board Join The Student Leadership & Ethics Board Partnerships Contact Us Curricular Initiatives The Individual, Business and Society Curriculum (IBSC) The Phillips Pathway for Inclusive Leadership (PPIL) Program The Reuben Mark Initiative for Organizational Character and Leadership About Reuben Mark Leadership Team Leadership Digital Collection Research Research Briefs for Leaders Events The Botwinick Prize in Business Ethics About Benjamin Botwinick '26 The KPMG Peat Marwick / Stanley R. Klion Forum About Stanley R. Klion The Paul M. Montrone Seminar Series on Ethics About Paul M. Montrone '66 Military Initiative Programming CBS – West Point Leadership and Ethics Exchange Leadership and Ethics: Military in Business Speaker Series Leadership and Ethics Week Diversity and Inclusion for All Engaging Men, Advancing Women Workshop Understanding the Interactions of Multiple Characteristics Leadership Conference Academic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Conference Restoring Trust: New Realities and New Possibilities for Business Leadership Conscious Capitalism: How Ethical Executives Move the Needle Forward, One Business Decision at a Time Lucy Quist: A Global Role Model for Business Leadership Two Industry Pioneers Lead the Change for Clean Energy The Great Debate on the Ethics of Pricing in the Drug Industry Leading With Courage: Top Industry Trailblazers Discuss Pathways to Restoring Trust in Business Innovation and the Value of Privacy Events Calendar Ethical Insights News SLEB Corner As the Leader TED Business Podcast Year 1: Season 1 Year 1: Season 2 Year 1: Season 3 Year 1: Season 4 Year 2: Season 1 Leadership Digital Collection Order 'Financial Innovation' DVD Support Us Collette Event.JPG Training the Next Generation The Center serves as a forum for thought leadership around teaching and research on the ethics and governance challenges confronting current and next-generation business leaders. The Bernstein Faculty Leaders and the Student Leadership and Ethics Board shape the curriculum, organize speaker events, experiential learning activities, and other sessions in topics surrounding leadership, ethics, and governance. Quick links: CBS Leadership Development Bernstein Center Brochure CBS Honor Code Columbia Business School Leadership & Ethics News May 11, 2022 Indra Nooyi is Purpose and Power Personified Indra Nooyi, former CEO and chairman of PepsiCo, opened up about her leadership journey and her hopes for an ethical and fair future. April 19, 2022 A Look Back on Leadership and Ethics Week The Student Leadership and Ethics Board presented Leadership and Ethics Week 2022, which focused on leading in the new normal and the evolution of business ethics. February 17, 2022 Do You Have a “Jerk” at Work? Tessa West, author and NYU professor of psychology, provides advice on dealing with—and ultimately breaking free from—your most toxic coworkers. October 14, 2021 Going Beyond the Win-Win The 2021 Klion Forum examined humanistic leadership through the lens of today’s societal challenges. October 5, 2021 The Bernstein Center Awards 2021-2022 Research Grants The Bernstein Center is proud to support nine doctoral students and faculty members across academic divisions in their innovative and relevant research work. August 30, 2021 With Back-to-Office Plans Evolving, Here Are 5 Tips to Help You Navigate the Unpredictable Road Ahead The Delta variant continues to run rampant around the U.S., forcing many companies to push back or halt plans for an in-person return to the office. We pulled together a few pieces of advice to help leaders prepare for whatever comes next. July 19, 2021 Developing Quality Conversations About Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Organizations—including business schools—are increasingly focused on expanding their DEI capabilities. Here we discuss best practices for having productive conversations around DEI. June 10, 2021 Power in the Right Place Magda Wierzycka, co-founder and chief executive officer of Sygnia Limited, talks leadership, integrity and seizing opportunities. May 19, 2021 The Real Scoop: How Ben & Jerry’s CEO Matthew McCarthy is Changing the World One Pint at a Time Matthew McCarthy spoke candidly about his values-based leadership style and his company’s avid social activism during his acceptance of The Botwinick Prize in Business Ethics at Columbia Business School. April 5, 2021 Anti-Asian Racism: Educating Yourself and Others Dan Wang, Associate Professor of Business and Bernstein Faculty Leader, puts pen to paper to help our community better understand the experience of being Asian in America. March 3, 2021 Nestlé's Top Executives Share Leadership Advice and the Secret to a Successful Organization Culture The leaders of the multinational corporation dug deep into the importance of the CEO-General Counsel relationship as it relates to organizational culture and shared career advice, including where to start when you’re fresh out of graduate school. January 26, 2021 The Bernstein Center Awards 2020-2021 Research Grants The research grants will support doctoral students in their pursuit of discovery around leadership, ethical conflicts, and the future of work across industries. January 15, 2021 The Phillips Pathway for Inclusive Leadership Launches at Columbia Business School The Phillips Pathway for Inclusive Leadership is a one-of-a-kind co-curricular initiative designed to help students understand and appreciate the inherent value in diversity and inclusion as future business leaders. December 10, 2020 One Life-Changing Call Joi Gordon, CEO of Dress for Success Worldwide, reflects on her career journey, which began with early leadership lessons from her mother and continues through her lifelong commitment to service. November 12, 2020 Bernstein Research Zoomposium 2020 Video Vault The Bernstein Center showcases groundbreaking research at its 2020 Research Zoomposium. November 5, 2020 Todd Jick Appointed Reuben Mark Faculty Director of Organizational Character and Leadership Todd Jick, veteran professor, takes on the role of Reuben Mark Faculty Director of Organizational Character and Leadership this fall. September 22, 2020 Drink Responsibly: How Boda Coffee is Changing the African Coffee Supply Chain Recent graduate, Hemish Dave ’20, founder of Boda Coffee speaks to his new venture and how CBS prepared him to lead in a sustainable and purposeful way. September 2, 2020 Modupe Akinola Appointed Director of the Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Center for Leadership and Ethics Modupe Akinola, Associate Professor of Management, steps into the role of Faculty Director this fall. August 18, 2020 Can Zoom Be a Tool for Teaching Anti-Racism? The second annual Academic DEI Conference virtually assembled top professors from peer schools around the world to discuss and develop best practices for teaching diversity, equity, and inclusion in business school and beyond. June 16, 2020 Winning Now, Winning Later with David Cote Former CEO of Honeywell International, David Cote, discusses his new book Winning Now, Winning Later and opens up about becoming the leader of a company that was on the verge of failure. May 28, 2020 Pharmaceutical Titan, Dr. Roy Vagelos, Discusses Leading Through Crisis in the COVID Era Dr. Roy Vagelos ’54PS shares his perspective on the current pandemic as well as leadership insights from his long-storied tenure as CEO of Merck & Co. May 18, 2020 Evolving Ethics and the Covid Pandemic Angela Rossetti ’80, a guest lecturer at Columbia’s Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, brings to light businesses’ evolving ethical compass by comparing the dishonorable business decisions of the 1918 flu pandemic with the collaborative, moral commitments made by today’s business leaders in the time of Coronavirus. May 15, 2020 The Balancing Act of Leading Through a Crisis Top executives discuss leading through the COVID-19 crisis while striking the proper balance between personal and professional. April 29, 2020 Networking in the Lockdown Era Bernstein Faculty Leader and David W. Zalaznick Associate Professor of Business, Dan Wang, explores the power behind creating, maintaining and leveraging meaningful relationships in today’s altered social climate. April 27, 2020 Colgate Leaders Discuss the Importance of a Strong CEO-General Counsel Relationship for Organizational Culture “I have always thought that the relationship between the CEO and the General Counsel is the most important partnership that exists,” said Reuben Mark, former CEO of Colgate-Palmolive for nearly two and a half decades. April 16, 2020 Leadership and Ethics Week 2020 Video Vault The Bernstein Center looks back at this year's Leadership and Ethics Week. April 10, 2020 Three Lessons Learned While Leading Through Crises James Keyes '80, Chairman of Wild Oats Marketplace and member of the Board of Overseers at Columbia Business School, cycles through his greatest professional wins and learnings to provide three key pieces of advice for leading through a crises. April 4, 2020 Scaling the Revolution: Patagonia CEO Rose Marcario Charts Path for Sustainable Business President and Chief Executive Officer of outdoor apparel company Patagonia discusses leading a company at the forefront of strong social change and environmental activism. February 7, 2020 Leadership Lessons from a Pair of Socks “We put a ton of emphasis on company culture,” David Heath, founder of apparel brand Bombas, said during the Reuben Mark Organizational Leadership Series. February 6, 2020 Hilary Krane on Leadership, Speaking Hard Truths and Being “On Offense Always” Hilary Krane, the recent Leader-in-Residence for the Reuben Mark Initiative discusses her vision for leadership and the importance of being a team player as part of an effective organizational culture. February 4, 2020 A New Way to Do Good: Invest in Bad Companies “Change is what’s going to drive improvement of the world,” says Michelle Dunstan, an ESG-focused portfolio manager at asset manager AllianceBernstein. November 25, 2019 Bernstein Center Awards Annual Faculty and Doctoral Research Grants The research grants will help provide new tools and frameworks in which to think critically about leadership, ethical conflicts, and the future of work across industries in order to better prepare future business leaders October 14, 2019 Enabling Productive Thinking to Develop Gender Balance Subtle mental shifts can increase people’s responsiveness to the gender gap, and their commitment to doing something about it. September 11, 2019 Integrating Diversity Into Business Education Conversations around diversity, equity and inclusion can be uncomfortable. But business school classrooms need to embrace them nonetheless. September 10, 2019 Adam Bryant Appointed Senior Advisor to the Reuben Mark Initiative for Organizational Character and Leadership Adam Bryant, a veteran journalist, author and managing director of Merryck & Co, has been appointed Senior Advisor to the Reuben Mark Initiative for Organizational Character and Leadership September 5, 2019 From 250 Miles Up: How Former Army Colonel and NASA Astronaut Tim Kopra ’13 Leads with Perspective Tim Kopra ’13 was the guest of honor for the annual Leadership and Ethics: Military in Business Speaker Series where he spoke to his leadership style and the intersection of his military and business careers. September 5, 2019 Leading with Humanity: Five Lessons on Leadership As part of the Reuben Mark Organizational Leadership Series, business and legal executives share their top leadership lessons which help impart strong workplace cultures. July 26, 2019 Bruce Sewell on Leadership, Silicon Legends, and “Sewell’s Rules” The inaugural Leader-in-Residence for the Reuben Mark Initiative discusses personal leadership styles and effective organizational cultures. June 7, 2019 Math versus Myths: The Business, Economic and Social Case for Immigration The Bernstein Center hosted its annual Klion Forum featuring a discussion on the business case for addressing the global refugee and immigration crisis June 7, 2019 Chile: A Progressive Blueprint for Emerging Economies Felipe Larrain, Minister of Finance of the Government of Chile, discussed global economic policies, climate change, and multi-lateral trade at Columbia Business School with Professor Joseph Stiglitz April 3, 2019 The Test of a Firm’s Values When a corporate scandals occurs, business leaders should be able look to their organizational values to see them through. February 5, 2019 Columbia Business and Law Schools Launch The Reuben Mark Initiative for Organizational Character and Leadership The Reuben Mark Initiative leverages the intellectual capital of Columbia Business School and Columbia Law School to develop and design curricula and programming which teach crucial leadership lessons and the skills and strategies necessary to create an optimal organizational culture. January 18, 2019 From #Metoo To #Howto: Promoting Diversity and Inclusion in Corporate America A panel of industry leaders discussed gender equality, diversity, and inclusiveness in today’s corporate workplace at Columbia Business School in conversation with Professor Katherine W. Phillips. January 17, 2019 Leading For The Long-Term: How Kenneth Frazier Fulfills Merck’s Outsized Mission Kenneth Frazier, CEO of Merck & Co., Inc., broke away from the earnings guidance from shareholders and continued the core commitment to research, substantially refocusing the organization on the launch and growth of products that benefit the public for the long term. August 21, 2018 Bernstein Center Awards Faculty and Doctoral Research Grants The Bernstein Center Sponsors Faculty and Doctoral Grants to Promote Research on Leadership and Ethics August 3, 2018 Katherine W. Phillips Appointed Director of the Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Center for Leadership and Ethics Katherine W. Phillips, the Reuben Mark Professor of Organizational Character, has been appointed Director of the Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Center for Leadership and Ethics May 16, 2018 The Bernstein Center and the Military in Business Association Forms Affiliation to Strengthen Programming Concerning Military-Civilian Divide The Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Center for Leadership and Ethics and the Military in Business Association (MiBA) seek to bridge the military-civilian divide in the greater Columbia community. May 16, 2018 New Research Finds Deceptive Negotiation Is Driven by Misperceptions of Others’ Ethics Columbia Business School scholars present a new framework for exploring why people are drawn into deceiving others in negotiation. May 9, 2018 Arianna Huffington, Founder and CEO of Thrive Global, Headlines 2018 Klion Forum at Columbia Business School Arianna Huffington, Founder & CEO of Thrive Global; Founder of The Huffington Post, discusses her thoughts on women board member quotas with Professor Gita Johar, Meyer Feldberg Professor of Business in Marketing at the 2018 KPMG Peat Marwick/ Stanley R. Klion Forum. May 1, 2018 Columbia Business School: Mandated Corporate Good Behavior Hurts Bottom Line & Reduces Efforts to “Do Good” NEW YORK—When government forces the business sector to “do good,” it hurts the bottom line and actually reduces voluntary efforts to be good corporate neighbors. Those are the findings of research unveiled today by Columbia Business School, which examines the viability of mandatory Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as a business practice, finding that enforced activity –efforts by governments to make CSR spending mandatory by law– is a value-decreasing proposition for shareholders, and a disincentive for corporate good behavior. Join Our Newsletter SLEB Corner SLEB Corner May 25, 2022 Addressing Affordable Housing and Housing Insecurity – A Conversation at Columbia Business School Tom Goldenberg '22, a member of the Student Leadership and Ethics Board (SLEB) at Columbia Business School, spoke with a panel of experts to glean insight into today’s affordable housing and housing insecurity predicament. December 21, 2021 Addressing Economic Inequality and Potential Solutions Student Leadership and Ethics Board member Tom Goldenberg '22 shares compelling insights and powerful quotes from a recent panel that addressed worldwide economic inequality as well as potential solutions. November 10, 2021 Difficult Conversations: How Learning to Listen Can Lead to Growth Student Leadership and Ethics Board (SLEB) member Eleonora Smeriglio ’22 is finding the courage to tackle the tough conversations that have acted as barriers in the past. August 16, 2021 Welcome Message From the 2021-2022 SLEB Co-Chairs This year's SLEB Co-Chairs, Marissa Guiang '22 MBA, Margaret Knowles '21 EMBA, and Brian Roxas '22 MBA, will focus on community engagement by revamping the core and celebrating diversity and inclusion within Columbia Business School. March 5, 2021 Pandemic Pedagogy Student Leadership and Ethics Board (SLEB) member Josie Cox ‘22 reflects on the one-year anniversary of the pandemic in the U.S. and shares lessons learned during this extraordinary time. February 8, 2021 Paving the Way for Women in STEM Student Leadership and Ethics Board (SLEB) member Deeksha Chawla ’21 is becoming the role model and mentor she craved in her formative years. November 18, 2020 Taking the Personal Out of Politics What 2020 has taught us about the importance—and challenge—of staying true to our core values. August 20, 2020 Welcome Message From the 2020-2021 MBA SLEB Co-Chairs This year, MBA SLEB Co-Chairs, Anna Houseman '21, Kathryn Savasuk '21, and Amanda Pfabe '21 pledge to co-sponsor workshops and panels about DEI and its intersection with ethical leadership while enhancing the School’s Individual, Business, and Society Curriculum. August 20, 2020 Welcome Message From the 2020-2021 EMBA SLEB Co-Chairs EMBA SLEB Co-Chairs, Marilynn Joyner '21 and Barry Wise '21, are focused on the ethical implications and leadership opportunities related to the COVID-19 pandemic and the Black Lives Matter movement. June 4, 2020 In Solidarity: A Message from The Student Leadership and Ethics Board By The MBA and EMBA Student Leadership and Ethics Board March 27, 2020 A Critical Moment for Climate Change SLEB member, Anita Dutta '20, recounts the top three lessons she learned from the Darden ClimateCAP Summit. March 17, 2020 Climate Change and the Corporate Conscience SLEB Co-Chair, Charles Gariepy '20, shares his insights from the Darden ClimateCAP Summit. February 10, 2020 Defining the Digital Health Space SLEB Co-Chair, Michelle Ferber '20, recaps her experience at the Digital Medicine Conference, hosted by Node Health. September 10, 2019 Welcome Message From the 2019-2020 EMBA SLEB Chair EMBA SLEB Chair, Shravy Valet '20, is focused on supporting members in their pursuit for encouraging ethics and leadership at CBS. September 10, 2019 Welcome Message From the 2019-2020 MBA SLEB Chairs MBA SLEB Co-Chairs, Michelle Ferber '20 and Charles Gariepy '20, are committed to driving the Student Leadership and Ethics Board's mission forward. June 6, 2019 The Bernstein Center Awards Development Grants The Bernstein Center offers Leadership Development Grants to members of its Student Leadership and Ethics Board. September 3, 2018 Welcome Message From the 2018-2019 MBA SLEB Chair MBA SLEB Chair, Na'ama Yehezkel '19, strives to explore challenging topics in order to further student's learning aound ethics and governance in the 21st century. August 27, 2018 Welcome Message from the 2018-2019 EMBA SLEB Chair EMBA SLEB Chair, Anna Smukowski '19, is excited about increasing the involvement of the EMBA community in discussions around values-based leadership and ethics. May 17, 2018 Crafting a Career in Financial Freedom Antonia Stroeh '04 is awarded the 2nd annual SLEB Alumni Ethical Leadership Award. January 5, 2018 SLEB Business Ethics Case Competition SLEB members show off their leadership and ethical decision-making skills at the inagural Business Ethics Case Competition. October 25, 2017 The Business of Ethics SLEB Chair, Sam Longair '18, attended the Society for Business Ethics' annual conference, which brought together engaging experts to address real-life issues. TED Business Podcast TED Business Podcast Every Monday, Bernstein Faculty Director and Associate Professor of Management Modupe Akinola hosts the TED Business podcast where she presents the most powerful and surprising ideas that illuminate the business world. At the end of each episode, Professor Akinola shares a mini-lesson on the talk's real-world applications, helping listeners set and achieve career goals, leverage their power to support others, and become inspiring leaders—because business evolves every day, and our ideas about it should, too. Listen to TED Business As the Leader As the Leader November 4, 2021 As the Leader, “It’s Important to Have a Clear and Easily Understandable Vision” Dr. Dara Richardson-Heron, former chief patient officer of Pfizer and current executive coach at The ExCo Group, is a treasure trove of lived experience and helpful advice for motivated future business leaders. October 6, 2021 As the Leader, “You Have to Care What People Think, But You Can’t Care Too Much, or You’ll Be Overwhelmed” James Comey, the former director of the FBI who is currently serving as a distinguished fellow of the Reuben Mark Initiative for Organizational Character and Leadership at Columbia Law School, shared his key insights on leadership. September 2, 2021 As the Leader, “It’s All About Building Personal Connections and Trust” Kristin Bresnahan, general counsel and chief people officer at plant-based dairy company Nobell Foods and former co-director of the Reuben Mark Initiative for Organizational Character and Leadership at Columbia Law School, shared memorable insights on leadership and building a career. May 6, 2021 As the Leader, “I Believe the Most Important Skill of Leadership is the Ability to Have Courageous Conversations” Vicki Kroviak, founder and chief executive officer of Acorn Health, is clear about what drives her company’s organizational success—striving for an authentic culture and values system, pushing women to the top, and not shying away from the hard conversations. April 1, 2021 As the Leader, “You Have to be Different Things to Different People at Different Times” David Ehrenberg, chief executive officer of the Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation, shares candidly about leading through crises with humility, pivoting during the economic shutdown, and cultivating a strong corporate culture. December 14, 2020 As the Leader, "It's About Learning to Adjust and Pushing Yourself to do Things Differently" Ritva Sotamaa, chief legal officer of Unilever, opens up about her upbringing in Finland, molding the culture of a global organization, and what she looks for in new hires. December 7, 2020 As the Leader, “It’s Super-Important to have Empathy” Marie Oh Huber, senior vice president and chief legal officer of eBay, talks impacts of the pandemic and the ongoing social justice movement and explains why speaking up is one of the best things you can do for your career. November 4, 2020 As the Leader, I Believe “Transparency, Integrity, and Inclusiveness Should Come Out of a Company's Culture” Elizabeth Moore, former senior vice president and general counsel at Consolidated Edison, discusses her early influences, the values she leans on as a leader in challenging moments, and the work it takes to build an honest and diverse corporate culture. October 5, 2020 As the Leader, “You Set the Tone and the Standards, So People Can Do Their Jobs” Andy Hendry, retired vice chairman, chief legal officer and secretary of Colgate-Palmolive, discusses cultivating and fostering company culture as well as his relationship with Reuben Mark, who he worked with for nearly 20 years. August 12, 2020 As the Leader, I Want to “Leave the World a Better Place for the Next Generation of Women” Laurel Richie, former president of the WNBA, speaks to authentic, trailblazing leadership and the hallmarks of healthy corporate cultures. July 22, 2020 As the Leader, You Should “Tap Into the Things That You Derive Meaning From and Incorporate Them Into Your Professional Persona” Pierre Gentin, Partner and Global General Counsel at McKinsey & Company, opens up about his early influences and explains how he draws on the humanities to bridge the gap between the legal and business worlds. March 31, 2020 As the Leader, "You Have to Communicate to Everyone That We’re in This Together" Reuben Mark, former Chairman and CEO of Colgate-Palmolive, shares a specific set of leadership lessons around steering a company through uncertainty and change and explains how an established culture makes it easier to navigate any crisis situation. February 27, 2020 As the Leader, "You Have to Role-Model the Behaviors You Expect from Others" Reuben Mark, former Chairman and CEO of Colgate-Palmolive, shares a new set of leadership lessons he gathered from his experience at the helm of a global organization. October 24, 2019 As the Leader, “You’re Representative of the Soul of the Enterprise” Reuben Mark, former Chairman and CEO of Colgate-Palmolive, shares leadership lessons he learned throughout his storied business career. Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top