Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Leadership About Programs Faculty\Staff Students Center for Higher Ed News Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Apply Now! Application Process LDPS CourseworkGeneral Information HIAD CourseworkGeneral Information Take Action Apply Now Need Help? Contact Us! Follow Us Online FacebookYoutube Home Department of Leadership Apply Apply Now! Welcome to the Department of Leadership! Apply to the Graduate School directly by clicking on the button below. Read on to learn more about our programs and application process. Apply Now > Apply using the button above, learn more about the Graduate School application process, or read on to learn more about our programs and application process. All materials should be uploaded through the graduate portal linked above. Graduate School Application Graduate School Readmit Application Master of Science (MS) in Leadership and Policy Studies: School Administration and Supervision Master of Science in Leadership and Policy Studies: College Student Personnel (Student Affairs Administration) Doctor of Education (EdD) in Leadership and Policy Studies Doctor of Education (EdD) in Higher Education and Adult Education Master of Science (MS) in Leadership and Policy Studies: School Administration and Supervision This 12 month, blended-learning (online and weekend courses) 30 semester hours graduate education program is built upon Tennessee Instructional Leadership Standards. Successful students will receive a MS degree (or Ed.S. if a Masters has been previously attained) and a Tennessee Instructional Leader license. Each applicant must submit a completed application packet to the University Graduate School that includes: A completed admissions application Official transcripts for all prior undergraduate and graduate courses. An official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score is NOT required. In addition, each nominee must submit the following items to the Department of Leadership: Letter of application that addresses the following items: Why you want this degree Why you want this degree from the UofM What you hope the degree will help you do post-graduation Current resume Official transcript(s) from all institutions attended Philosophy of education statement Three professional letters of application on letterhead (one letter must be from a local principal or superintendent that the applicant has worked with) The admission decision will be based on a holistic profile that includes, but is not limited to, information contained in the completed application packet described above. Priority application deadline is April 1 for Summer/Fall admission. Priority application is November 1 for Spring admission. Master of Science (MS) in Leadership and Policy Studies: College Student Personnel (Student Affairs Administration) Each applicant must submit a completed application packet to the University Graduate School that includes: A completed admissions application Official transcripts for all prior undergraduate and graduate courses. An official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score is NOT required. In addition, each applicant must submit the following items to the Department of Leadership: Letter of application that addresses the following items: Why you want this degree Why you want this degree from the UofM What you hope the degree will help you do post-graduation Current resume Official transcript(s) from all institutions attended Three professional letters of recommendation on letterhead The admission decision will be based on a holistic profile that includes, but is not limited to, information contained in the completed application packet described above. Priority application deadline is April 1 for Summer/Fall admission. Priority application is November 1 for Spring admission. Doctor of Education (EdD) in Leadership and Policy Studies (emphasis in either School Leadership or Policy Studies) Each applicant must submit a completed application packet to the University Graduate School that includes: A completed admissions application Official transcripts for all prior undergraduate and graduate courses An official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score is NOT required. In addition, each applicant must submit the following items to the Department of Leadership: Letter of application that addresses the following items: Why you want this degree Why you want this degree from the UofM What you hope the degree will help you do post-graduation Professional resume Three letters of professional recommendation on letterhead A personal interview preceded by a writing sample will be scheduled with each applicant and admission decision will be made following the personal interview. The decision will be based on a holistic profile that includes, but is not limited to information contained in the completed application packet described above and obtained during the personal interview. Interested applicants are required to contact the departmental office to obtain admission forms and a more complete statement of admission guidelines. Priority application deadline is April 1 for Summer/Fall admission. Priority application is November 1 for Spring admission. Doctor of Education (EdD) in Higher Education and Adult Education (emphasis in either Higher Education Administration or Adult Education) Program objectives are: (1) development of skills in leadership, higher education or adult education, policy formulation, implementation, and evaluation; (2) development of research skills such as data and the relationship to organizational effectiveness; and (3) knowledge and understanding within a concentration area. Each applicant must submit a completed application packet to the Graduate School that includes: A completed admissions application Official transcripts for all prior undergraduate and graduate courses An official report of Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores In addition, each applicant must submit the following to the Department of Leadership: Letter of application that addresses the following items: Why you want this degree Why you want this degree from the UofM What you hope the degree will help you do post-graduation Professional resume Three letters of professional recommendation on letterhead The admission committee may request a personal interview. The admission decision will be based on a holistic profile that includes, but is not limited to, information contained in the completed application packet described above. Priority application deadline is April 1 for Summer/Fall admission. Priority application is November 1 for Spring admission. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.