Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff December 29, 2020: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution Dear colleagues, Vaccinations continue today, December 29, and tomorrow, December 30. The focus still remains on vaccinating individuals delivering direct patient care and all care team members and staff supporting them in person. We will keep everyone updated as more groups are added. NYP is administering either the Pfizer/BioNTech or the Moderna vaccines. Both have been shown to have over 90% efficacy in preventing symptomatic COVID-19 illness and require two doses administered either 28 days (Moderna) or 21 days (Pfizer/BioNTech) apart. An automatic reminder will be generated through Connect, four days prior to the next dose, based on the brand received; and of note, the second dose of the vaccine has to be the same as the first, since at present there are no data available on the interchangeability of one COVID-19 vaccine combined with other COVID-19 vaccines to complete the vaccination series. NYP will begin administering second doses of the Pfizer vaccine next week. Great care is taken to limit vaccine waste, and thus everyone is asked to come no later than one hour prior to the end of the end time for vaccinations that day to ensure that only the vials needed are thawed. As of this morning, more than 17,200 staff at NewYork-Presbyterian, Weill Cornell, and Columbia have been vaccinated. This includes nearly 6,300 individuals on the Columbia Campus who are working in patient care areas, with over 2,800 of them Columbia employees. According to the CDC COVID Data Tracker, as of December 28, more than 11 million doses have been distributed and 2.1 million people in the U.S have received their first dose of the vaccine. The FAQ and other information materials continue to be updated, so please check the CUIMC COVID Vaccine Information page to stay up to date. Thank you! Magda Sobieszczyk, MD, MPH Chief of Infectious Diseases and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Melissa Stockwell, MD, MPH Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top