COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Student Ambassador Society Section Menu SAS Home Apply to SAS Leadership Conference Nominate Someone for SAS Amie Montgomery Scholarship Ask a Shocker Student Executive Council Undergraduate Admissions Membership App Test Student Ambassador Society (SAS) enhances the image of Wichita State University by participating in various outreach programs. As a service organization, SAS members work alongside the Office of Admissions to discuss the benefits of a university experience, especially at WSU, by sharing their experiences as WSU students. SAS also hosts student and non-student VIPs while they're on the WSU campus. Apply to SAS Leadership Conference Ask a Shocker Contact Us 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0124 sas@wichita.edu facebook twitter instagram About SAS Responsibilities Student ambassadors volunteer about 25-30 hours per semester. Sixteen hours are dedicated to biweekly meetings and 8-12 hours are spent assisting and supporting the Office of Admissions. Ways that ambassadors help the Office of Admissions include but are not limited to: Working for the Office of the President and the WSU Foundation hosting dignitaries and donors Mingling with students and parents at on-campus programs Writing postcards and making phone calls to prospective students Serving on student panels during group visits and on-campus programs Attending Discover Wichita State programs with admissions staff Hosting an annual leadership conference for high school student leaders Providing a current student's perspective on WSU Benefits Impacting the future of the university by interacting with prospective students, current students, university faculty and staff, and alumni Giving back to the university Professional and social networking Service to the Wichita community Meeting fellow WSU students Leadership development Outreach to WSU campus and the Wichita community Enhancing your Wichita State collegiate experience History In the spring of 1995, students in Shocker Ambassadors and the Student Alumni Association united to become the WSU Student Ambassador Society (SAS) and work as volunteers alongside the Office of Admissions in recruitment efforts. Throughout its existence, the group has grown in size, but not changed in purpose. SAS has initiated many sustainable and successful activities including: the annual state-wide SAS Leadership Conference for high school students the endowed Amie Montgomery scholarship Gore Core, a celebration of the top students who compete in the Distinguished Scholarship Invitational Graduates of this group have gone on to be successful lawyers, doctors, educators, engineers, performers, health care practitioners and business professionals who maintain their dedication and loyalty to Wichita State and the Wichita community. The motto of the Student Ambassador Society is "Loyal service through Shocker spirit." This motto has been adopted as a lifetime commitment for its members. The group is currently advised by Sarah Brill, Kayla Jasso and Sheelu Surender. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©