Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Hall of Distinction JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Climate & the Environment Energy Geosciences Marine Geosciences Planetary Sciences & Geobiology Solid Earth & Tectonic Processes Surface & Hydrologic Processes Research Disciplines Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Advising Admissions Internal Transfers Degrees Offered Jackson Scholars Program Honors Program Financial Support Courses & Catalogs Field Experiences Why Geosciences? TNT 2021 Graduate Advising Admissions Degrees Offered EER Graduate Program Find a Supervisor Financial Support Courses & Catalogs External Grants & Scholarships Graduate Studies Committee Advising & Program Coordination Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services Career Center Geology Library Holland Family Student Center People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Chemical or Physical Hydrogeology Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Structural Geology/Tectonics JSG Community Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Research Scientists Postdocs Staff Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Desk Blogs Texas Geosciences Science Y’all In the News Scientist Profiles Newsletter 2015 Newsletter 2014 Newsletter PDF Archive Media Contacts Events DeFord Lecture Series Master’s Saturday Heads/Chairs on the Future of Undergraduate Geoscience Education Workshop Summit Materials, PowerPoints and Webcast Archive Background Reading Agenda Graduation Distinguished Lectures Association Meetings GSA 2014 SEG 2012 GSA 2012 2011 Meetings DGS Vehicle Reservation Calendar Submit an Event Skip to main content Close Search Bar Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies SearchMake a Gift About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Units Offices Contacts Diversity and Inclusion JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Graduate Advising Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services People JSG Directory Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Employment Opportunities Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Office Blogs In the News Newsletter Media Contacts Events Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Association Meetings Summits JSG Graduation Menu Home About Leadership Leadership Dr. Claudia Mora Dean, Jackson School of Geosciences Dr. Claudia Mora became dean of the Jackson School of Geosciences at The University of Texas at Austin on Feb. 1, 2020. Prior to leading the Jackson School, Mora was at Los Alamos National Lab where she served as group leader of the Earth Systems Observations Earth and Environmental Sciences Division. Dr. Julia Clarke Associate Dean, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Dr. Julia Clarke is the Associate Dean, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. She is the John A. Wilson Professor in Vertebrate Paleontology and a Howard Hughes Medical Institute Professor. Her research focuses on using phylogenetic methods and diverse data types to gain insight into the evolution of birds, avian flight and the co-option of the flight stroke for underwater diving. Dr. Christopher Bell Associate Dean, Academic Affairs Dr. Christopher Bell is responsible for academic affairs for the Jackson School, including the undergraduate program, student affairs, and admissions. His research centers on understanding the complex dynamics of vertebrate faunal communities during the Quaternary Period. Dr. Scott W. Tinker Director, Bureau of Economic Geology Dr. Scott W. Tinker is Director of the Bureau of Economic Geology, the State Geologist of Texas, Director of the Advanced Energy Consortium and a Professor holding the Allday Endowed Chair in the Jackson School of Geosciences at the University of Texas at Austin. Scott spent 17 years in the oil and gas industry prior to coming to UT in 2000. Dr. Danny Stockli Department Chair, Department of Geological Sciences Dr. Danny Stockli is responsible for academic affairs for the Jackson School, including the undergraduate program, student affairs, and admissions. As a researcher, Stockli is focused on the development and application of geo- and thermochronometry to tectonic and geological problems to better quantify the temporal and thermal aspects of tectonic, petrologic, stratigraphic, and geomorphologic processes. Demian Saffer Director, Institute for Geophysics Dr. Demian Saffer was appointed director in of the Institute for Geophysics at The University of Texas at Austin’s Jackson School of Geosciences Jan. 1, 2020. Prior, he was a professor and head of the Department of Geosciences at Penn State University. Saffer’s research centers on the role of fluids in tectonic processes and what this can tell us about earthquakes and tsunamis. Dr. David Mohrig Associate Dean, Research Dr. David Mohrig has been a part of the faculty of the Jackson School of Geosciences since 2006 and holds the John E. “Brick” Elliott Centennial Professor in Geological Science. As the Associate Dean of Research he is responsible for fostering an active research culture and promoting the formulation and implementation of major collaborative research initiatives and multi- and interdisciplinary research. About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History JSG Workplace Issues Mailing Address Jackson School of Geosciences 2305 Speedway Stop C1160 Austin, TX 78712-1692 Phone (512) 471-6048 Support JSG Departments & Units Department of Geological Sciences Bureau of Economic Geology Institute for Geophysics Administration & Offices College Leadership Career Services Business Services Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Office Helpful Links UT Austin UT Direct Emergency Information IT Help JSG Directory JSG Profiles Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed © 2022 Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader