Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW Request Info Visit Campus Cost of Attendance Apply Undergraduate First-Year Students Admission to the University of Wyoming REQUIREMENTS UW is the only four-year university in the state of Wyoming, and that gives our first-year freshmen a huge advantage as they begin their college journey. Unlike schools that compete against other universities in the same state, Wyoming dedicates a huge portion of its resources to create an unforgettable and impactful student experience. This means you’ll have greater access to opportunities, such as our unrivaled study abroad program or the chance to participate in undergraduate research. Why the University of Wyoming? We're #1 on the list out of 20 states where college is worth the cost. 52% of UW undergrads have graduated with no student loan debt. Our average 14:1 student-to-faculty ratio gives students individualized attention. Study at over 400 domestic and international locations. Over 80 Programs & Majors to Choose From Our undergraduate degrees are designed to give students close interaction with faculty in our incredible facilities, and even outside in the vast open spaces of Wyoming. Many programs also have options to study abroad and conduct undergraduate research! LEARN MORE Want to hear from real students? Download the UW ZeeMee app. Connect with other students interested in attending college here and talk to real UW students. The Freshman Experience Each student’s experience is unique at the University of Wyoming. Some students flourish in close-knit groups with similar interests and others soak in everything UW has to offer. Whether it’s your first home football game, decorating your dorm room, or getting a spruce cone in “Rexy” the dinosaur’s mouth for luck on your finals, your freshman year will be unforgettable! More Resources The University of Wyoming strives to make obtaining your degree affordable and accessible. That’s why our undergraduate admission is on a “rolling basis”, meaning you can apply at any time for the upcoming semester. Check out these requirements for undergraduate students. Find an Admissions Counselor UW is located in beautiful Laramie — the heart of the Mountain West. You can set up one-on-one appointments to ask questions and learn more about UW! MAKE AN APPOINTMENT VISIT CAMPUS Three Ways Going to college is a major decision and we want to make sure you are feeling confident about your choice. UW offers future students several visit opportunities including in-person visits, a virtual tour and sessions so you can see our beautiful campus. PLAN A VISIT Get Answers to Your Questions We know navigating your college admission experience can sometimes be overwhelming. If you have a question about any part of the process, use our UW Answers form to get connected with the right person. We're eager to help you and make your experience of applying to UW as seamless as possible. And if you need extra help, feel free to contact us! Equal Opportunity Admission Statement Persons seeking admission, employment, or access to programs of the University of Wyoming shall be considered without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, age, veteran status, sexual orientation, or political belief. We're Eager To Help Contact Us UW Office of Admissions Knight Hall 150 Department 3435, 1000 E. University Avenue Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: +1-307-766-5160 Toll-Free: (800) 342-5996 E-mail: admissions@uwyo.edu 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility