Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology School of Interactive Computing Menu Close About What is Interactive Computing? Facts & Rankings Buildings & Facilities Faculty Hiring Contact Us About Atlanta People Faculty Staff Academics MS Programs PhD Programs Advising Admissions & Financial Aid Distance Learning International Study GT Computing Student Life Your Life Here Admissions & Financial Aid Distance Learning International Study Research Research Areas Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Geometry, Graphics & Animation Human-Centered Computing & Cognitive Science Information Visualization & Visual Analytics Robotics & Computational Perception Social Computing & Computational Journalism Ubiquitous & Wearable Computing Virtual & Augmented Environments Labs & Groups Centers & Initiatives News & Events Upcoming Events Calendar News Podcasts Contact Support Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Research Research Areas Geometry, Graphics & Animation Faculty involved in geometry, graphics and animation focus on research and education in several aspects of visual computing that deal with the creation, modeling, animation, control, simulation, transmission and visualization of interactive graphical models. Among other activities, we host the NSF Aquatic Propulsion Lab (APL), which focuses on techniques for creating and evaluating computer models of swimming patterns. Faculty with primary affiliation in this area include: Karen Liu, Jarek Rossignac and Greg Turk. Dr. Karen Liu's research interests are in computer graphics and animation, including physics-based animation, character animation, numerical methods, robotics and computational biomechanics. In particular, Dr. Liu develops computational models of human motion and applies them to build tools that help scientists, engineers, and artists to model, simulate, and design natural human motion. Her research draws equally from principles of biomechanics and physics, optimization and control theory, and machine learning from motion data to develop motion models and algorithms for synthesizing natural motion. Dr. Jarek Rossignac’s research spans a broad range of interest, including shape segmentation and analysis, interactive shape and animation design, solid modeling, geometric compression, GPU acceleration, morphing, and fluid simulation. Its applications range from shape statistics and blending in CAD/CAM, through morphing and feature animation automation in entertainment, to image segmentation and heart and foot surgery planning in medicine. Dr. Rossignac teaches computer graphics at the graduate and undergraduate level and Complexity Techniques in Graphics, Modeling, and Animation. He is a member of GVU and directs the MAGIC lab. He is a Fellow of Eurographics and the Technical Papers Co-chair for SMI’2010. Dr. Greg Turk’s research interests include computer graphics, scientific visualization, computer vision, and simulation for biology. He was the ACM SIGGRAPH 2008 Technical Papers Chair. Coordinator: Jarek Rossignac James Hays Associate Professor Personal Webpage Karen Liu Associate Professor Personal Webpage James Rehg Professor Personal Webpage Jarek Rossignac Professor Personal Webpage Greg Turk Professor Personal Webpage Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Computing Resources Communications Finance Office of the Dean Technology Services Organization (TSO) College of Computing Schools School of Computational Science and Engineering School of Computer Science School of Interactive Computing Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Report a Problem Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology