COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Design and Technical Theatre, Major MajorDesign and Technical Theatre All Programs College of Fine Arts Theatre Wichita State's award-winning Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) theatre program will equip you with a firm foundation of knowledge and practical skills for a successful theatre career. You'll enjoy personalized training with acclaimed professionals and virtually countless opportunities to showcase your talent on campus and throughout Kansas' center of arts and culture. Learn how design and technical theatre is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Fine Arts, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Internship expands theater major's skills, confidence Students pursuing a major in design and technical theatre will work behind the scenes to help others shine. Payton Dickerson, a technical and theatre design major, learned first-hand the benefits of a summer internship, working as a junior cutter and draper for the production of “Beauty and the Beast” at the Trollwood Performing Arts School in Minnesota. Her days were filled with cutting and building costumes for cast members, as well as helping dress the cast, assist with quick changes and make last-minute repairs. Curriculum The BFA in design and technical theatre consists of 85 credit hours. You'll take courses in acting, directing, makeup, stage lighting, scene design and more. And you'll also choose from a number of theatre electives based on your interests and career goals. View the curriculum Careers From local productions to Broadway, a degree in theatre from Wichita State's College of Fine Arts equips students with the skills, connections and confidence for careers in TV, film and the stage. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Art Art Education Painting (Studio Art) Sculpture (Studio Art) Art, Design and Creative Industries (Minor) Theatre 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©