Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Faculty Senate Home Locations, Agendas, and Minutes Senate President Senate President Past Presidents of the Faculty Senate Senate Members Constitution Bylaws Contact ☰ Faculty Senate SMU Faculty Senate 2020-2021 Faculty Senate 2020-2021 Mission Statement The Faculty Senate of Southern Methodist University bears the responsibility of speaking and acting for the General Faculty in matters affecting the University as a whole. The Senate possesses and exercises the powers of the General Faculty of the University in all matters that are not reserved by the Bylaws of the University to the faculty of a single school. The Senate seeks to further the University's dedication to the pursuit of truth and the preservation, dissemination, and extension of knowledge. To that end, the Senate has among its principal concerns the preservation of academic freedom in the University community, the promotion of creative and responsible inquiry, thought, and expression in an atmosphere of scholarly excellence, and the protection of a vital balance among the various programs of the University, free of prejudice or undue partiality. The Senate is responsible for fostering the professional development and economic well-being of the faculty. The Senate exercises its power through legislative, investigative, and advisory functions appropriate to the Faculty Senate Constitution. The contents of this web site are the sole responsibility of the Faculty Senate and its contributors, and do not necessarily represent the official opinions or policies of Southern Methodist University. Send your comments on this site to Julie Maynard (jmaynard@smu.edu), Coordinator of the Faculty Senate. 2020 Fall General Faculty Meeting Address by President Aurelie Thiele 2020 Convocation Address by President Aurelie Thiele Faculty Senate 2020-2021 Senate President SMU Faculty Senate Locations, Agendas, and Minutes Resolutions Senate Committees and Subcommittees AY 2020-2021 Constitution Bylaws Documents Useful Links for Faculty Faculty Senate Archives Contact Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share