COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Homeland Security, Major MajorHomeland Security All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences School of Criminal Justice The Bachelor of Science (BS) in homeland security from Wichita State provides students with a foundation in security combined with specialized learning in emergency management, terrorism studies or cybersecurity. This four-year program also offers a completely online option. Graduates are well prepared for careers in the security industry at the operational, management and policy levels. Learn how Homeland Security is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum This 120-credit-hour program covers all aspects of the homeland security field combined with courses in the liberal arts and sciences. The major consists of at least 36 credit hours of homeland security courses. Students may take 14 additional credit hours beyond the 36 credit hours required for the major (for a total of 50 credit hours). View the curriculum Careers The BS in Homeland Security at Wichita State will help you start or advance your career in the public or private sector in areas such as: Intelligence Federal Emergency Management Immigration and Customs Federal Law Enforcement Transportation Security Administration National Security Military Service Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Homeland Security (minor) Criminal Justice Applied Computing Forensic Sciences Psychology 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©