Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Urban Studies Site Navigation Home News People Undergraduate Program Events Urban Studies Alumni Urban Studies Newsletters Urban Journal Internships/Fellowships/Jobs Urban Research Resources Contact Us Connect with US Print this Page Share this Page Urban Studies Program Brown University Box 1833 Maxcy Hall 108 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2090 Fax 401-863-9288 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Welcome to the Urban Studies Program The Urban Studies Program at Brown University Cities are sites of problems and promise, inequality and solidarity, conflict and community. Processes of urbanization shape the challenges and possibilities of the 21st century. The Urban Studies Program equips students to analyze the city and urban life in the United States and around the planet through a variety of disciplinary lenses drawn from the humanities and social sciences, applying both qualitative and quantitative methods for scholarly research and community engagement. Students explore the history of cities, urban and suburban growth and transformation, the organization and design of built, social, and natural environments, urban politics and policy, and the role of cities and urbanization in art, culture, and public life. The undergraduate program emphasizes global and local perspectives to understand how diverse communities have shaped cities through time, investigates the spatial dimensions of social relations and cultural meaning, and challenges students to work towards inclusive, equitable, and sustainable places. Also in Urban Studies Site Navigation Home News People Undergraduate Program Events Urban Studies Alumni Urban Studies Newsletters Urban Journal Internships/Fellowships/Jobs Urban Research Resources Contact Us Connect with US Print this Page Share this Page Urban Studies Program Brown University Box 1833 Maxcy Hall 108 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2090 Fax 401-863-9288 [email protected] Urban Studies Events Jun 2 All Day Registration period for Summer courses for Brown undergraduates re-opens at 9:00 a.m.EDT and remains open until Wednesday June 22 at 5:00 p.m. EDT Jun 19 All Day Residence halls open. Jun 20 All Day Juneteenth Holiday observed. No University exercises. Jun 20 All Day Summer Session opens. Jun 21 All Day Summer Session classes begin. View full calendar > Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity