Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Giving to Baylor Menu About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Give Light Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering and Computer Science School of Music University Libraries Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Giving Societies 1845 Society 1845 Society Impact Report 2021 Old Main Society Make a Gift Baylor>Giving to Baylor>Priorities>Academic Units>George W. Truett Theological Seminary George W. Truett Theological Seminary Baylor University's George W. Truett Theological Seminary exists to equip people for gospel ministry in and alongside Christ's Church by the power of the Holy Spirit. As we seek to fulfill this mission, we recognize that the generosity of our alumni, friends and supporters is invaluable. Each gift — no matter the size — makes a difference for our students as they pursue their callings. We thank you for your interest in the mission and vision of Baylor University and invite you to make a gift to support student scholarships, faculty research and needs and priorities within George W. Truett Theological Seminary today. Building & Grounds Improvement Fund Celebrate the upcoming 20th anniversary of Truett's Baugh-Reynolds Campus by helping the Seminary renew and refurbish our landscaping and facilities. Dean's Excellence Fund Support for the George W. Truett Theological Seminary through the Dean's Excellence Fund ensures that the specific resources needed by any student or faculty member can be readily and easily addressed. Doctor of Ministry Endowed Scholarship Fund Your support financially helps those called to extensive biblical and theological study. Our well qualified DMin students graduate with a deep framework going into ministry. Faith & Sports Institute Fund Your gift to the Faith & Sports Institute will help leaders in sports around the world experience God’s transformative work through education, mentorship, and thoughtful engagement with critical issues. Friends of Truett Scholarship Fund Contributions to this scholarship fund enable Truett Seminary to meet pressing financial needs of our students. Truett Alumni Endowed Scholarship Fund Join fellow Truett Alumni in giving toward the establishment of the Truett Alumni and Honorary Alumni Endowed Scholarship Fund. This endowment will provide meaningful, dependable scholarship support from Truett Alumni for Truett students. Contact Us To learn more about opportunities to give to George W. Truett Theological Seminary, contact Jon Sisk, Director of Development. Jon Sisk Director of Development Jon_Sisk@baylor.edu Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Endowed Scholarship College of Arts & Sciences Excellence Fund James Vardaman Endowed Professorship William and Argye Hillis Scholars in Biomedical Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Center for Church and Community Impact Drs. Preston and Genie Dyer Endowed Scholarship Diana R. Garland Endowed Scholarship Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Excellence Fund Global Mission Leadership Initiative Houston MSW Excellence Fund W.O. Carver Endowed Fund George W. Truett Theological Seminary Building & Grounds Improvement Fund Dean's Excellence Fund Doctor of Ministry Endowed Scholarship Fund Faith & Sports Institute Fund Friends of Truett Scholarship Fund Truett Alumni Endowed Scholarship Fund Hankamer School of Business HSB Endowed Scholarship Fund HSB Excellence Fund HSB Faculty Development Fund Honors College Baylor Interdisciplinary Core F. Ray Wilson Endowed Scholarship Great Texts Fund Honors College Excellence Fund Honors Program Philanthropy & Public Service Excellence Fund Philanthropy & Generosity Endowed Fund University Scholars Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Baylor University LHSON Missions LHSON Alumni Endowed Scholarship Louise Herrington Endowed Scholarship Fund in Nursing Nursing School Excellence Fund Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences Communication Sciences and Disorders Health, Human Performance and Recreation Human Sciences and Design Public Health Excellence Fund Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education Center for Community Learning and Enrichment Center for Developmental Disabilities Curriculum & Instruction Excellence Fund Educational Leadership Excellence Fund Educational Psychology Excellence Fund School of Education Excellence Fund School of Education Endowed Scholarship School of Engineering and Computer Science BUV (Basic Utility Vehicle) Competition Engineering and Computer Science Excellence Fund Engineering Endowed Scholarship Engineers with a Mission SAE Baja Competition School of Music Center for Christian Music Studies Daniel Sternberg Society Golden Wave Band Music Education Excellence Fund School of Music Endowed Scholarship School of Music Excellence Fund University Libraries Baylor Book Society Books for Bears and Bear Cubs Chairs for Bears Dean's Excellence Fund Lanella Spinks Gray Baylor at Independence Endowed Fund Sue Margaret Hughes Library Internship Fund Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Backyard Ecology Hall Ellie Caston Education Enhancement Endowment Martin Museum of Art Excellence Fund Mayborn Museum Excellence Fund Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Office of University Advancement Clifton Robinson Tower, Ste. 800 One Bear Place #97026 Waco, TX 76798-7026 (254) 710-2561 (800) 229-5678, option 4 University_Advancement@baylor.edu Alumni Connect Give Light Campaign Give Online Memorials and Tributes General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Give Light Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering and Computer Science School of Music University Libraries Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Giving Societies 1845 Society 1845 Society Impact Report 2021 Old Main Society Make a Gift