Skip to Navigation Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. Events Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give About About About Overview General Info Facts & Figures Rankings Leadership History Mission & Values Mission & Values Strategic Plan Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Impact Contributions & Discoveries Global Engagement Recognition Awards & Honors Athletic Championships & Medals Notable Alumni UCLA Ranked No. 1 Public University UCLA tops all public universities in the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Admission Admission Admission Overview Undergraduate Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Tours Graduate Graduate Admission Graduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Funding Graduate Tours Additional Information International Applicants Extension Program Summer Sessions Academics Academics Academics Overview Explore Degree Programs & Majors College & Professional Schools Education Undergraduate Education Graduate & Professional Education Extension Courses & Certificates Summer Sessions Study Abroad Continuing Education Support Career Preparation Academic Advising First Generation New Student Programs Honors & Advanced Study Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Course Schedule Course Catalogue Research Research Research Campus Resources Research Across Campus Technology & Innovation Investments & Partnerships Libraries Student Research Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Housing Residential Life Dining Health & Wellness Sustainability Student Life Clubs & Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Performance Volunteering & Service Directory Academic Calendar Maps & Directions Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give Open Search Home Learn More About Los Angeles’ Top-Ranked University | UCLA Rankings Rankings UCLA performs well in all of the national and international rankings of public and private universities, including the most widely known list published by U.S. News & World Report. Here, you’ll find an overview of some of the more significant and well-known national and international rankings. National Rankings #1 Public University U.S. News & World Report, 2021 UCLA is the No. 1 public university, and is ranked 20th among all national universities in the U.S. News & World Report Best Colleges rankings. The U.S. News & World Report rankings, despite their popularity, tell only part of the story. They place more emphasis on factors that tend to favor private universities, such as endowment size, rate of alumni giving and student-faculty ratios. Nevertheless, they can be a useful tool that focuses largely on factors related to undergraduate education. Global Rankings #9 World Reputation Ranking Times Higher Education, 2020 UCLA ranked 9th out of 100 universities in the Times Higher Education World Reputation Rankings. Distinct from the annual World University Rankings, these rankings are derived solely from the opinions of senior, published academics from around the globe. #13 Global Ranking U.S. News & World Report, 2021 U.S. News introduced a new global ranking of universities in 2014. The methodology for this ranking is very different from the publication’s U.S. ranking system. It gives much more weight to academic research and reputation, as well as graduate and professional school quality. #13 Academic Ranking of World Universities Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 2020 More than 1,200 institutions are evaluated in this ranking, which is based heavily on faculty publications and citations, as well as the number of alumni and faculty who have won Nobel Prizes. #15 World University Rankings Times Higher Education, 2021 UCLA was 15th overall among the top 1,102 universities in the world in the respected Times Higher Education World University Rankings. The rankings rely on performance indicators such as the quality of teaching, research and the international mix of staff and students. Other Rankings #4 Best Value University Forbes Magazine, 2019 In 2019 (the most recent ranking), Forbes evaluates colleges and universities based on alumni earnings, net price, net student debt, school quality, timely graduation and the number of Pell Grant recipients. Forbes revised its methodology in 2018 to put more emphasis on the survey’s three financial factors — earnings, price and debt — and the publication switched to net price (which takes into account the impact of students’ financial aid and the costs of room and board) instead of list price. #9 Top American Research Universities Center for Measuring University Performance, 2019 In 2019 (the most recent ranking), the center placed UCLA among the nation’s top research universities — both public and private. This ranking focuses on nine key measures of university research performance, including competitively awarded research grants and contracts, faculty membership in the National Academies, faculty awards, the number of doctorates awarded and other factors. UCLA was ranked in the top 25 among all research universities in seven of these measures, including: 7th in the nation in total research expenditures 8th in the nation in faculty awards 14th in the nation in national academy memberships 40 Top-Ranked Doctoral Research Programs National Research Council, 2010 In 2010 (the most recent ranking), the National Research Council (NRC) compiled the premier assessment of the nation’s doctoral research programs. The NRC placed many of UCLA’s programs in its highest ranks. Of the 59 programs evaluated by the NRC, 40 of UCLA’s graduate programs placed in the range of the top 10 programs nationwide. Related Download UCLA in the Rankings for More information (PDF) Sign up for news, stories, and events from UCLA Strategic Communications Email First Name Last Name Zip Code Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration. You may unsubscribe at any time. Zip code is used to improve the content we share. Refer to our Terms of Use for more information on how we store and protect your data. Los Angeles 90095(310) 825-4321 Contact Directory Academic Calendar Careers Contact Us Media & Journalists Campus Campus Map Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Community Alumni Parents & Families Faculty Staff Emeriti & Retirees Venue & Events Conference Center & Hotel Film Production Event Planning Related Sites Athletics Extension Health Store Giving Centennial The Arts Arts Gateway Hammer Museum Fowler Museum Center for the Art of Performance Facebook Instagram Linked Twitter Youtube TikTok Snapchat © 2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Report Misconduct Privacy & Terms of Use Cookie Policy We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised Privacy Policy. I Accept