COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search 10 Wichita State women chosen for Widener Global Leadership program Sept. 17, 2021 — The first cohort of the Widener Global Leaders Program will consist of 10 women from the Barton School of Business, the Elliott School of Communication in Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, and the School of Music in the College of Fine Arts. Men of Color: Educators of Tomorrow program launched at Wichita State Sept. 16, 2021— The Wichita State University College of Applied Studies announced today the launch of Men of Color: Educators of Tomorrow, a new mentor education program for young men of color interested in pursuing careers in teaching and other education-related paths. Widener Global Leaders Program to transform Wichita State students Sept. 8, 2021 — A new, yearlong, interdisciplinary program focused on developing women leaders with a global, innovative mindset will start this fall at the W. Frank Barton School of Business at Wichita State University. The Widener Global Leaders Program, made possible by a gift from Peri Widener, is designed to create a transformational experience and foster an inclusive community for women majoring in business, communication or fine arts. WSU students earn real estate scholarships Aug. 27, 2021 — Anthony Gallardo and Troy Moellinger have been named the 2021-22 recipients of the Layman L. Clark / Kansas CCIM Chapter Scholarship in Real Estate. Shocker Promise will cover tuition and fees for eligible Sedgwick County freshmen Aug. 19, 2021 -- Starting fall 2022, any qualified high school senior who is a resident of Sedgwick County will be eligible to receive a scholarship covering unmet tuition and fee costs to attend Wichita State University. Scholarship aimed at underrepresented students welcomes inaugural class Aug. 19, 2021 — As the fall 2021 semester begins, the 21 students in the inaugural class of Adelante Scholars have begun their careers as Wichita State University students. Business school awards scholarships to transfer students July 13, 2021 — For the first time in Wichita State history, the Barton School of Business has awarded three, multi-year scholarships to transfer students committed to joining the business program, in association with the Phi Theta Kappa honor society. First Previous 1 2 3 4 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©