Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Site Navigation Home About News People Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Ph.D. in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies A.M. in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Graduate Certificate in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Courses Publications Resources Contact Print this Page Share this Page Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Brown University Box O Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3042 Phone 401-863-2695 Fax 401-863-7261 [email protected] Stay Connected with Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Graduate Programs Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Graduate Programs Professor Luiz F. Valente Director of Graduate Studies One of the leading centers for graduate level study of the Portuguese-speaking world, the programs at Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies at Brown University include a doctoral program specializing in Portuguese-language literature as well as three interdisciplinary Master's programs. More information about each of the four programs can be found on the pages listed on the left. How to Apply Application information is available on the Graduate School website. Prospective students can apply online. The Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies does not require the GRE from its applicants to the doctoral program. Related Links Graduate School Website University-wide Graduate School Handbook Also in Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Site Navigation Home About News People Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Ph.D. in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies A.M. in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Graduate Certificate in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Courses Publications Resources Contact Print this Page Share this Page Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Brown University Box O Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3042 Phone 401-863-2695 Fax 401-863-7261 [email protected] Stay Connected with Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Calendar There are no upcoming events. Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity