Skip to content Menu Yale Architecture YSoA Academics Overview M.Arch I M.Arch II M.E.D. Ph.D. Joint-degree Programs Undergraduate Studies The Jim Vlock First Year Building Project Student Travel Summer Programs Rome Program Visualization 1 Awards and Fellowships Explore all Courses Admissions Overview Requirements Apply Tuition and Fees Financial Aid International Students Calendar Events Academic Calendar Exhibitions Publications Overview Perspecta Retrospecta Constructs Books About the School Overview News History and Objectives Tribal Lands Acknowledgement Yale Urban Design Workshop Yale Center for Ecosystems in Architecture Advanced Technology Support the School Staff Visiting Contact Faculty Explore all Faculty Endowed Professorships Students Recent Graduates Student Work Student Groups Career Development Alumni Overview Search International Students International Students Overview Requirements Apply Tuition and Fees Financial Aid On this page Admission Requirements for International Students Language Skills Financial Aid for International Students Optional Practical Training Extension Office of International Students and Scholars Forms International Student Financial Aid Application (Current Students) International Student Financial Aid Application (Prospective Students) Parent Financial Statement Private Education Loan Applicant Self-Certification (PDF) International Verification Form (Due May 15 for Admitted Students) OISS Forms for Admitted Students (Fall 2022) Sponsor Letter of Support (PDF) OISS: Financial Certification Form (I-20) Admission Requirements for International Students The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is optional for applications to the M.Arch. I, M.Arch II, and MED programs. You are welcome to submit your scores if you feel it would support your application. If you choose not to take the GRE or submit scores, it will not affect the strength of your application and we will review all your other materials comprehensively. For information regarding the GRE test, test dates and locations, and/or to arrange to take the test, visit www.ets.org/gre. Although the test may be taken at any time, it should be taken no later than December preceding the application due date to be considered. In addition, applicants whose native language is not English are required to take the Internet-based test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iBT), a test that includes a section on spoken English (see Standardized Examinations in the chapter Admissions for further information). Any transcripts, letters of reference, or other application material written in a language other than English must be accompanied by a certified translation. In order to receive visa documentation, international students must submit proof that income from all sources will be sufficient to meet expenses for that year of study. Each student accepting admission to the School must submit a Financial Certification Form for International Students Admitted for Fall 2022. This form, available from the Registrar’s Office or accessible on our website, is due April 15 with acceptance of the admission offer. It must be completed and signed by the parents (and spouse, if applicable) of an international applicant, and must include all bank and tax information. See Admissions for further admission requirements. Language Skills All course work at the School is conducted in English. Enrolled students who have difficulties with the English language, whether written or spoken, will be required to take extra courses in its use before they are promoted within their program. Students requiring such courses are responsible for any added tuition costs. Financial aid for such English language courses is not available. Financial Aid for International Students See the chapter Financial Assistance for the Master’s Programs for information regarding financial aid. Optional Practical Training Extension Employment Opportunities at Yale The School of Architecture offers international students employment opportunities in a wide variety of positions within the School. The University also has employment opportunities for international students through its Student Employment Office. Employment Opportunities Outside of Yale During Enrollment and After Graduation During full-time enrollment, international M.Arch. students at the School who hold F-1 visa status and who have been enrolled full-time for at least one full academic year may apply for the Curricular Practical Training (CPT) program, which provides the opportunity to be employed in the United States outside of the University. During an academic year, CPT is limited to part-time (no more than twenty hours per week). During summer breaks, CPT is available only for full-time employment. International M.Arch. students at the School who hold F-1 visa status may apply for the Optional Practical Training (OPT) program, which provides the opportunity to be employed in the United States after graduation for a period of twelve months plus a twenty-four month STEM extension, for a total of thirty-six months, provided such employment begins within sixty days of graduation. International M.E.D. students at the School who hold F-1 visa status and who have been enrolled full-time for at least one full academic year may apply for the Optional Practical Training (OPT) program, which provides the opportunity to work in the United States outside of Yale for up to twelve months. For further details on the CPT and OPT programs, visit the Immigration section of the OISS website. Office of International Students and Scholars The Office of International Students and Scholars (OISS) coordinates services and support for Yale’s nearly 6,000 international students, faculty, staff, and their dependents. OISS staff assist with issues related to employment, immigration, and personal and cultural adjustment, as well as serve as a source of general information about living at Yale and in New Haven. As Yale University’s representative for immigration concerns, OISS helps students, faculty, and staff obtain and maintain legal nonimmigrant status in the United States. All international students and scholars must register with OISS as soon as they arrive at Yale. OISS programs, like daily English conversation groups, U.S. culture workshops and discussions, bus trips, and social events, provide an opportunity to meet members of Yale’s international community and become acquainted with the many resources of Yale University and New Haven. Spouses and partners of Yale students and scholars will want to get involved with the International Spouses and Partners at Yale (ISPY), which organizes a variety of programs. The OISS website (http://oiss.yale.edu) provides useful information to students and scholars prior to and upon arrival in New Haven, as well as throughout their stay at Yale. International students, scholars, and their families and partners can connect with OISS and the Yale international community virtually through Facebook. OISS is housed in the International Center for Yale Students and Scholars, which serves as a welcoming venue for students and scholars who want to peruse resource materials, check their email, grab a cup of coffee, and meet up with a friend or colleague. Open until 9 p.m. on weekdays during the academic year, the center—located at 421 Temple Street, across the street from Helen Hadley Hall—also provides meeting space for student groups and a venue for events organized by both student groups and University departments. For more information about reserving space at the center, go to http://oiss.yale.edu/about/the-international-center/international-center-room-reservations. For information about the center, visit http://oiss.yale.edu/about/international-center. Close Yale Architecture Search Yale Architecture Search × Academics Overview M.Arch I M.Arch II M.E.D. Ph.D. Joint-degree Programs Undergraduate Studies The Jim Vlock First Year Building Project Student Travel Awards and Fellowships Explore all Courses Admissions Overview Requirements Apply Tuition and Fees Financial Aid International Students Calendar Events Academic Calendar Exhibitions Publications Overview Perspecta Retrospecta Constructs Books About the School Overview News History and Objectives Tribal Lands Acknowledgement Yale Urban Design Workshop Yale Center for Ecosystems in Architecture Advanced Technology Support the School Staff Visiting Contact Faculty Explore all Faculty Endowed Professorships Students Recent Graduates Student Work Student Groups Career Development Alumni Overview All Images Forms and Resources Make a Gift School Policies Jobs at YSoA Accreditation Information Yale logo Facebook Instagram Belonging at Yale Accessibility Land Acknowledgement Colophon Yale University Search Submit Close Loading in progress