Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Students Contact your Advisor Advising Resources and Tools Transfer Credit Home Overview and Checklist Types of Transfer Credit Transfer Equivalency Database Credit Evaluation Forms Transfer Articulation Agreements Accreditation for Transfer Credit COVID-19 FAQs for Credit Evaluation College Credit Plus Home CCP Admission Requirements Apply to CCP Academic Advising Textbooks & Supplies High School Partnerships FAQ Contact 15 to Finish Students FAQ Resources For Advisors UC Advising Conference About Organization Advising Strategic Plan Assessment Home Overview and Checklist Types of Transfer Credit Transfer Equivalency Database Credit Evaluation Forms Transfer Articulation Agreements Accreditation for Transfer Credit COVID-19 FAQs for Credit Evaluation Home Transfer Credit Credit Evaluation Overview and Checklist Credit Evaluation Overview and Checklist Credit Evaluation Process Overview Credit Transfer Checklist Other Considerations for Your Transfer Credit Credit Evaluation Overview at UC Credit Evaluation Process - Accessible Version Credit Evaluation Process - Accessible Version ► Back to Top Credit Transfer Checklist Have you completed an application to the University or are you a current UC student? Have all official transcripts with final grades been sent to the University of Cincinnati? These may also include any Joint Service Transcripts (Military) or A-Level transcripts. Have all official test scores (e.g. AP, CLEP, International Baccalaureate) been sent to the University of Cincinnati directly from the testing agency? ► Back to Top Other Considerations for Your Transfer Credit Please review our Credit Evaluation timeline for students. Students who have earned credit through a College Credit Plus or Dual Enrollment program, must send official transcripts to the University of Cincinnati from the college or university that awarded the credit. High school transcripts will not be accepted in lieu of official college transcripts for the purposes of determining transfer credit awards. While we make every effort to provide a CER immediately after the completion of an application, we may request additional time to research and evaluate credits. ► Back to Top Office of Advising & Academic Services 2618 McMicken Circle University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221-0202 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.