Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Brown Center for Students of Color Brown Center for Students of Color Welcome to the Brown Center for Students of Color website! We hope you and your loved ones are safe and well. The University has shared updated language regarding our Healthy Brown Opening Guidance you can find the latest updates here. BCSC Regular Operating Hours For everyone's safety and care the BCSC is currently only accessible to Brown ID holders during our regular business hours: Monday-Friday 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m until May 31st, 2022. On behalf of the entire Brown Center for Students Color (BCSC) team, we are pleased to announce an upcoming renovation to Partridge Hall, the home of the BCSC! Renovation of the first floor of Partridge Hall will start in early June 2022 with a completion goal of August 2022. As a result, the BCSC will be closed for renovations and not accessible to the greater campus community starting June 1, 2022 through August 22, 2022. (Note: Reopening dates are contingent on construction timelines). To read more information please click here. After-Hours Card Access After-hours card access is given to BCSC administrative and student staff, Minority Peer Counselors, and other Brown University members who have received prior approval from the BCSC to use the building outside of regular business hours. [For student groups] Student groups may reserve only the formal lounge through 25live, our other BCSC spaces cannot be reserved by student groups. Please visit https://25live.collegenet.com/pro/brown for room reservations. For weekend student group reservations via 25 Live, we require special training on how to use the space. We will have the Campus Public Safety team notified to unlock and lock the space. Restrictions will prohibit groups from propping open doors or letting uninvited visitors into the space. For questions about the BCSC’s after-hours card access and building policies, please email [email protected] [For the general public] Please email [email protected] to schedule a tour or an appointment to view the space. Please keep in mind our hours of operation are Monday-Friday 8:30-5:00pm. Covid-19 Addendum All individuals using the Brown Center for Students of Color must abide by the current health and wellness policies as detailed on the Healthy Brown.edu webpage. The BCSC may update building policies and card swipe access when necessary to be in compliance with Healthy Brown. If changes are made, we will communicate with all after-hours card access holders. WHAT RESOURCES ARE AVAILABLE? Since March of 2020 we have been providing our full range of services in a slightly different way. As of September 2021 we are back to meeting in person but additional options continue to be available. These include but are not limited to: Personal and academic advising and support, in person as well as by phone, email, online chat, video-conferencing, or another method that works well for you. Provision of resources. Educational information and material. Social and cultural programs/opportunities for engagement through in-person events and social media. WHO CAN ACCESS OUR RESOURCES? Any member of the Brown community including but not limited to undergraduate students, graduate students, medical students, post-docs, instructors & lecturers, staff, and faculty. Local community members are also welcome to participate in any of our programs that we advertise as open to the public. OFFICE HOURS We are generally scheduling meetings between 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. EDT but we are very willing to work with anyone who would like to set up a meeting time that works better for your time zone. TO REQUEST A MEETING (In-person or remote) BCSC Staff Office Hours: Dean Vincent: By appointment on Thursdays or Fridays. Please schedule an appointment here. Sage: by appointment on Thursday afternoons. | Email to receive a link Anne-Marie: Fridays 1-3:00 PM EST | Email to receive a link Lehidy: by email Frank: by email STAY CONNECTED AND RECEIVE REGULAR UPDATES BCSC NEWSLETTER INSTAGRAM FACEBOOK Photos From Our Events Home About BCSC Weekly Newsletter Third World Transition Program (TWTP) MPC Program Heritage Series Student Communications Team Graduate Students of Color Senior Graduation Ceremony Center Spaces Meet the Staff Contact Print this Page Share this Page Brown Center for Students of Color Brown University Box 1871 68 Brown St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone (401) 863-2120 Fax (401) 863-1184 [email protected] Calendar There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Our Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter