Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close About Home About About Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Get to Know the Career Center The Career Center is here to help you during your journey at Boston College and beyond. We celebrate the diversity of our student body and appreciate that each student brings to us a unique background, life story, and set of interests, skills, values, and goals. Our team will help you tap into resources that will equip you with the skills you need to make your next move, and to design your life and career. Our Vision All Boston College students will be empowered to pursue meaningful careers and lives. Our Mission The Boston College Career Center empowers students from all academic disciplines to incorporate their career goals into a broader sense of living a life of meaning and impact. The Center embraces the value of a liberal arts education, which prepares students to discern their gifts and talents and how they want to use them to engage the world. We assist students in complementing their exploration with active career preparation so they can connect to opportunities that help achieve their goals. To meet the needs of each student, we work with partners to foster a community of diverse support networks throughout campus and beyond to help students at every stage of their career journey. Our aim is to reflect the University's belief that career education and readiness are essential components of our Jesuit mission to engage students throughout their journey of self-discovery and personal formation. Our Shared Values Our shared values form the foundation of how we work at the Boston College Career Center. Student-Centered Approach We make choices that are deeply rooted in the best interests of students to empower them in their pursuit of meaningful professional opportunities and relationships. Leadership We strive to develop and become the leaders necessary to realize our mission. We work purposely, strategically, and resourcefully. We take initiative, persevere in the face of challenges and assume responsibility for achieving ambitious, realistic, measurable results. Sense of Possibility We approach our work with optimism, think boldly, and greet new ideas openly. Learn Continuously We think critically and strategically in search of the best answers and approaches and reflect on past experiences and data to guide our actions for the future in our commitment to continuous improvement. We keep in mind the limitations of our own experience and actively seek out diverse perspectives to improve our work and maximize our impact. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion We recognize that we each bring a unique perspective to our team based on our identities and life experiences that help us do our best work. We keep in mind the limitations of our own experiences and actively seek out diverse perspectives to enrich our team and to create an inclusive environment where every individual with whom we interact feels valued, supported, and empowered. Team We value and respect each other. We inspire, challenge, and support one another to be our best, sustain our effort, and engage in our work with a sense of purpose towards empowering students to pursue meaningful professional opportunities and lives. Our Model How we organize our work at the Boston College Career Center The Three Stages of Your Career Journey We are all at different stages of our life journeys. Our three-step model—Explore, Prepare, Act —will help you recognize where you are and what steps you need to take to achieve your goals. Our staff will help you tap into resources that will equip you with the skills you need to make your next move, and to design your life and career. Remember that your career development is an ongoing, lifelong process of exploration and decision-making. You will revisit these steps throughout your time at Boston College and beyond. 1. Explore Through a variety of experiences at Boston College, you will be reflecting on the three questions: what brings you joy?, what are you good at?, and what does the world need you to be? At this stage, you will dive deep to learn about yourself and find a path that aligns your individual skills, interests, and values with meaningful career opportunities. 2. Prepare Whether you are applying for a post-grad opportunity, internship, graduate school, or on-campus position, you will want to highlight what makes you distinct and present your talents in the best light. At this stage, you will begin to seek opportunities to develop the skills employers seek, and learn how to effectively present your experiences, skills, interests, and values to a potential employer or graduate school. 3. Act It’s time to make it all happen. At this stage, you will begin strategizing your search plan and start pursuing opportunities that align with your interests, skills, and values. Who We Serve All undergraduate students enrolled in degree-granting programs have full access to our coaching, programming, events, and digital resources. Graduate students currently enrolled in degree-granting programs within MCAS, CSON, LSOEHD, WCAS, STM, and Social Work have full access to our coaching, programming, events, and digital resources. We currently do not serve students in exclusively online programs. Alumni who have graduated from a degree-granting program within the past 5 years, with the exception of graduates of CGSOM and the Law School, continue to have full access to our coaching, programming, events, and digital resources. Additional Career Offices on Campus BC Law School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Carroll Graduate School of Management Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College