Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close For Counselors HOME Admission sites For Counselors In This Section Admission Overview Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Thank you for taking the time to visit our page for college counselors. We appreciate you and all of the years of work that you put into advising and guiding your students through the college process. Your efforts are crucial to our success in recruiting, evaluating, admitting, and enrolling the best students and community members for Boston College. We value our working relationship with you and trust that this page will provide you with useful information as you continue to work with your students. Thank you. On This Page Counselor Resources CBO Information Connect with Our Office Request Information Open All Close All Counselor Resources Updates Throughout each academic year, the Boston College Admission Office seeks to keep the counseling community updated on both the admission cycle and developments within our office. Updates are typically sent out by email so please go to the "Request Information" tab below to join our Counselor Mailing List. Stay tuned for our next update! Incoming Class Profile Looking for information on the Class of 2025? Feel free to review some of the enrollment statistics and relevant facts below. Class of 2025 Profile BC News Looking for important updates that may be of interest to your students? We will provide links to helpful Boston College-related news here, especially items relating to admissions, academics and student life. Test Optional for 2021-22 BC's Forum on Racial Justice in America Human-Centered Engineering (new Fall 2021) CBO Information Visits Each year, we enjoy hosting visits from community-based organizations focused on college access/readiness. This fall, we are excited to welcome back CBOs for one-hour in-person campus tours at 12:00 pm on Tuesdays, Wednesday, and Thursdays from September 21st through November 18th. To learn more about these visits, please look for Organization & High School Visits on our Visit page or contact Cindy Cordova, Senior Assistant Director, Office of Undergraduate Admission. Affordability As one of 20 private US colleges and universities practicing need-blind admission and meeting the full demonstrated financial need for domestic applicants, our goal is to make a Boston College education not only possible for students regardless of their socioeconomic background, but also one that ensures their success. Learn more about BC's affordability and our tools for estimating financial aid (Quick Cost Estimator and/or Net Price Calculator). Student Resources While many offices at Boston College work with our students to make the most of their college experience, we want to highlight a few that are well known for the positive difference they make in students' lives. Please read more about these difference-makers: Learning to Learn Montserrat Coalition Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center Connect with Our Office Your work with students is important to you, your students and their families, and your community. It is also important to us. From travel and calls to meetings and correspondence throughout the year, our goal is to work with as many of you as we can. We hope that this Counselor page, as well as the main websites for both Boston College and the Admission Office, serve as valuable resources for you, but if you have a question that cannot be answered or are just looking to connect with us, we appreciate the opportunity to work with you. As with many admission offices across the country, ours is comprised of admission counselors with specific regions. Please visit the Find Your Admission Counselor page to find the member of our office who would be your most appropriate point of contact. If you have any trouble, you can always call our main office at 617-552-3100 or send us an email. Thank you. Request Information Loading... Admission and General BC Publications Boston College Viewbook Would you like to learn more about Boston College? Look no further than our Office of Undergraduate Admission Viewbook. BC Viewbook BC's AHANA Community The Boston College AHANA community (people of African, Hispanic, Asian, and Native American descent) is one that contributes in numerous and incredibly meaningful ways to the University. This brochure highlights programs and services of the Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center (BAIC), an office supporting the entire student body, with a particular focus on AHANA students. BAIC Brochure International Recruitment Just as higher education expands our students' horizons, we have been witness to an increasing international student population making a huge difference on both our campus and in the city of Boston. Come learn more about the opportunities for students coming to BC from around the globe. International Student Brochure The Boston College Core Curriculum As a Jesuit institution, Boston College believes deeply in the importance of the education of the whole person. This is evident in our University Core Curriculum, which helps our students acquire a common intellectual foundation. A renewal of our core resulted in opportunities for team-taught Core courses. Feel free to read more about recent offerings below. Complex Problems and Enduring Questions Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College