Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index The Institute for the Study of Western Civilization Menu Search TTU The Institute for the Study of Western Civilization Summer 2019 Guest Lecturers “The Constitution and Religion as a Public Good” Featuring Dr. Susan Hanssen, Professor of History at the University of Dallas. (Delivered in the Senate Room of the Texas Tech Student Union, on October 18th, 2019.) Most discussions about the role of religion in the American Founding focus on the constitutional guarantees for religious freedom and the prohibition of an established church. Dr. Hanssen argues that this leaves out something equally important, the belief held by almost everyone at the time that a republic had to be virtuous in order to survive, and that virtue depended on religion. George Washington's notion of religion as a public good is examined as an illustration of this widespread conviction. Steve Balch interviews Dr. Susan Hanssen of the University of Dallas about her experience teaching the Western and American traditions, as well as her research on Henry Adams. Science and The Scientific Revolution Shakespeare and his Legacy The U.S. Constitution and American Civic Culture The Shadow of the Great War All Fall 2018 Events SEP 06 Dr. Anne Rathbone Bradley Academic Director and the George and Sally Mayer Fellow for Economic Education of The Fund for American Studies "The Political Economy of Terrorism: Economic Freedom as the Counter-Measure" SEP 13 Dr. William B. Allen Emeritus, Dean and Professor, Michigan State University and current Visiting Professor of Conservative Thought and Policy, University of Colorado "Conscience: The Basis of Liberty, Character, and Civilization" The U.S. Constitution and American Civic Culture Lecture Series The U.S. Constitution and American Civic Culture Lecture Series Texas Tech Faculty Lectures Ryan Hackenbracht TTU Assistant Professor, Department of English "Holy Disobedience, Compulsory Liberty: Hobbes, Locke, and the Biblical Right to Be Bad" Stacey Jocoy TTU Associate Professor of Musicology, School of Music "From Yankee Doodle Dandy to Hamilton: Music that Makes the Nation" Erin Marie Legacey TTU Assistant Professor, Department of History "The Dead and the Founding of the French Revolution" Sydnor Roy TTU Assistant Professor of Classics, Department of Classical and Modern Languages and Literatures "Lawgivers or Tyrants: Plutarch's Lives and the Contested Status of the 'Founding Fathers' in Revolutionary -era America" SEP 19 Dr. Bruce Brasington Professor of History at West Texas A&M University "Lost Causes and Impossible Loyalties: An Apology for the Middle Ages" OCT 04 Dr. Jamsheed Choksy Professor and Chairperson of the Department of Central Eurasian Studies at Indiana University, Bloomington The Phi Beta Kappa Society Visiting Scholar Program OCT 15 Ambassador Chase Untermeyer Former United States Ambassador to Qatar "Qatar: Maverick of the Middle East" OCT 24 Dr. Paul Hollander Professor Emeritus of Sociology, University of Massachusetts Amherst "Political Hero Worship: Intellectuals, Non-Intellectuals and the Problems of Modernity" NOV12 Dr. Jay Winter Charles J. Stille Professor of History Emeritus at Yale University "The Second Great War, 1917-1923" The Shadow of the Great War Lecture Series The Shadow of the Great War Lecture Series Texas Tech Faculty Lectures Dr. Jen Shelton TTU Associate Professor, Department of English Thursday, November 8th Dr. Richard Lutjens TTU Assistant Professor, Department of History Wednesday, November 14th Dr. Allison Whitney TTU Associate Professor, Department of English Thursday, November 15th Dr. Michael Fredrick Rollin TTU Instructor, Department of History Tuesday, November 20th NOV27 Dr. Bruce Gilley Professor of Political Science at Portland State University "The Case for Colonialism" Dr. Steve Balch is Director of the Institute for the Study of Western Civilization and President of TTU Phi Beta Kappa Recommended Organizations: The Constitutionalist Society Recent Events: All Fall 2018 Lectures All Fall 2018 "Institute Encounters" "Shakespeare and his Legacy" Lecture Series Trailer "Science and the Scientific Revolution" Lecture Series Trailer Spring 2018 Interviews Spring 2018 Lectures Highlights of 2017 - Video His Imperial and Royal Highness Archduke Georg von Habsburg-Lothringen Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents The Institute for the Study of Western Civilization Like The Institute for the Study of Western Civilization on FacebookLike The Institute for the Study of Western Civilization on Facebook Subscribe to The Institute for the Study of Western Civilization on YouTubeSubscribe to The Institute for the Study of Western Civilization on YouTube Address Mailing Address: Box 42019 - The Institute for the Study of Western Civilization, Lubbock, TX 79409-2019 Phone 806.834.8289 Email steve.balch@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 27, 2021 8:24 AM The Institute for the Study of Western Civilization About The Institute for the Study of Western Civilization About Back The Institute The Director Staff Support Contact Us Events & Videos The Institute for the Study of Western Civilization Events & Videos Back Upcoming Events Recent Events Event Archives Honors College Undergrad Program Model Courses K-12 Resources Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index