Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Alumni Recruiters Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Carroll School? Diversity & Inclusion Diversity News Accreditation Board of Advisors Faculty Openings Visit Contact Related Links About Boston College Maps & Directions BC News Undergraduate Overview Academics Advising Peer Advisors Staff Advisors Concentrations Minors The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Career Accelerator Summer Management Catalyst Program Portico Careers Social Media CSOM Undergraduate Career Resources Placement Data Career Accelerator Study Abroad Community & Student Life FAQ CSOM Undergrad FAQs: COVID-19 Mar 13: Letter From Undergraduate Dean's Office Mar 20: Registration and Advising Updates Contact Graduate Overview Admission Visits and Events Tuition and Aid O’Brien Fellowship Graduate Admission FAQ International Applicants Information for U.S. Military MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Part-Time MBA Data Analytics Sequence Electives Applied Learning BC MBA Ambassadors M.S. Programs M.S. in Finance M.S. in Accounting Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Organization Studies Community & Student Life Living in Boston Career Development Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Part-Time Faculty Faculty Expertise Departments Overview Concentrations Academics Accounting Undergraduate Concentrations Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Business Analytics Concentration & Academics Careers Seminar Series Message From the Chairperson Business Law & Society Finance Academics and Study Abroad F22 Registration Info Faculty Ph.D. Program Seminar Series Job Market Candidates Message From the Chairperson Information Systems Concentration & Academics Message From the Chairperson Seminar Series Management & Organization Concentration & Academics Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Marketing Concentration & Academics Careers Awards and Appointments Faculty Message From the Chairperson Fall 2022 Registration Centers Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Carroll School Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Alumni Recruiters BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Academics Advising Advising Peer Advisors Staff Advisors Advising Personalized Support at Every Stage What should you study? How can you make the most of your top talents? Should you go abroad—and if so, where? Which internship is the best fit? At the Carroll School, advising features an entire team—faculty, staff, dean, and peer advisors—dedicated to helping students address these questions and other academic, personal, and career issues. Our advising approach evolves as students progress through the program, adjusting to fit their needs and interests as freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors. Students also have access to a range of practical resources, including advising guides, the Office of International Programs, and the Boston College Career Center. Advising Drop-In Hours in Fulton 315 Monday through Thursday, 10 a.m.-12 p.m. and 1-3 p.m. Make an Advising Appointment Current Students: Now you can find all the advising resources in one place! CSOM Undergraduate Advising Website CSOM Career Advising Website Personalized Advising and Support Freshman Sophomore Junior Senior The transition to college requires both personal and academic adjustments. From the moment they enter the Carroll School, freshmen are supported formally and informally by both faculty and juniors and seniors. Resources Portico Professor: All Carroll School freshmen are assigned a faculty advisor, who serves as their Portico instructor. In addition to regular class meetings, students meet with this instructor to discuss a variety of issues. In the spring semester, they continue to meet to select courses, choose a concentration, and address other academic and co-curricular questions. Portico Teaching Assistants: In addition to Portico instructors, freshmen also have access to two teaching assistants—Carroll School seniors who serve as mentors. As students begin to consider concentrations, study-abroad programs, and leadership roles, faculty, peer, and staff advisors are available to help. Resources Faculty Advisors: Ask faculty advisors for their perspectives on how to make the most out of college and what advice they can offer from their own experience. Peer Advisors Staff Advisors Office of Global Education: Get info about studying abroad at this office, located at Hovey House. Career Exploration: Reflect on strengths and interests and learn about career path options with a variety of resources, including: Career Accelerator Carroll School Career Advisors The Career Center Halftime Retreat When it’s time to get focused on concentrations and career planning, students should seek guidance from faculty, career advisors, and peer advisors. Resources Faculty Advisors Staff Advisors Peer Advisors The Career Center Carroll School Career Advisors Resources Faculty Advisors: Seek out faculty for advice regarding specific areas of study and career paths. The Career Center Carroll School Career Advisors Staff Advisors Beginning sophomore year, students are assigned to a staff advisor in the Senior Associate Dean’s Office. Students can discuss any advising concerns by appointment or during drop-in hours. Their expertise includes: Academic policies and procedures Curriculum Concentrations Study abroad and course approvals Summer courses Transferring out CPT and OPT for international students Leaves of absence Meet the Staff Advisors Erica Graf Assistant Dean, Academic and Student Services Fulton 315 | 617-552-0462 Drop-In Hours: Thursday, 10 a.m.-12 p.m. and 1-3 p.m. Students with the last name beginning with R through Z Sara Nunziata Assistant Director, Undergraduate Program Fulton 315 | 617-552-2266 Drop-In Hours: Monday, 10 a.m.-12 p.m. and 1-3 p.m. Students with the last name beginning with A through F Josephine Xiong Associate Director, Undergraduate Program Fulton 315 | 617-552-4207 Drop-In Hours: Tuesday, 10 a.m.-12 p.m. and 1-3 p.m. Students with the last name beginning with L through Q Ally Galati Academic Advisor Fulton 315 | 617-552-8754 Drop-In Hours: Wednesday, 10 a.m.-12 p.m. and 1-3 p.m. Students with the last name beginning with G through K, Carroll School minors and Catalyst students Make an appointment with your staff advisor at bc.edu/navigate Meet Your Peer Advisors Peer Advisors are Carroll School seniors from a variety of backgrounds and with a range of academic concentrations and experiences who help other students with course recommendations, internship process, interview preparation, extracurricular activities, and more. Peer Advisors Academic Tools Academic Calendar Course Catalog Tutoring Advising Guide 4-year planning spreadsheets Class of 2022 Class of 2023 Class of 2024 Class of 2025 Back To Top Back To Top Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College