COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW School of Digital Arts Section Menu Digital Arts Home Animation Audio Production Filmmaking Game Design Shocker Studios College of Fine Arts Home Stop Video Wichita State's Bachelor of Applied Arts (BAA) in Media Arts combines your creativity with the technical skills necessary for an engaging career in the video game, film or recording industries. As a Media Arts student, you have access to our technology-rich production facility—Shocker Studios—where you can hone your craft among peers, faculty, and industry professionals. Turn your creativity into a career. Wichita State's School of Digital Arts transforms creative students into top-notch, tech-savvy visionaries. The state-of-the-art equipment housed in Shocker Studios prepares our graduates for careers in computer animation, video game design, animation, or filmmaking. Enroll now. Shocker Studios Grow professionally in our 35,000 sq ft production facility Animation studio Computer lab Motion-capture studio Film studios Recording studios Clay modeling studio Design studio Classrooms, meeting spaces and more Learn more Contact us Contact the School of Digital Arts director, Justin Rorabaugh, at 316-978-7731 or justin.rorabaugh@wichita.edu. Media Arts degree programs Acting for Digital Arts Our Acting for Digital Arts students focus on film work, motion capture performance for animation and video games, voice work in audio productions, including audiobooks, podcasts, and voicing animated characters, as well as innovative technologies, such as virtual reality and augmented reality. Animation Our animation program gives students the skills and techniques necessary to bring their artwork to life – and land their dream job. With classes ranging from Foundation Drawing and Digital Animation to Story Boarding and Rigging, students will develop a technological acumen, combined with design-thinking skills, to help them master their craft. Audio Production The audio production program brings some of the foundational music education elements into the modern-day paradigm of digital media. Students learn the skills of music theory and music literature, music business, electronic music production, and advanced editing and mastering. Collaborative Design Media Arts’ collaborative design concentration is an interdisciplinary program which teaches students the importance of cooperative efforts among creatives and designers. The collaborative design core combines design thinking with a range of possibilities from the other four Media Arts concentrations, allowing students to tailor their degree to their unique project work. Collaborative design graduates are ideal candidates to pursue a Master’s in Innovation Design. Filmmaking This program brings a high level of quality and design to the filmmaking process by teaching both on- and off-camera skills – from acting and principles of video to scriptwriting and lighting. Students in all of our media arts programs take part in at least three different practicum projects. Game Design Students in game design learn how to work with a team to design characters, levels and storylines. Courses cover everything from the history of motion, sound and gaming to audio recording, figure drawing, animation, clay modeling, prop and character design, and advanced game design. Certificates Media Arts offers four undergraduate certificates in animation, audio production, filmmaking and game design. Similar to a minor, certificates are a group of courses that address a special topic — equipping you with additional knowledge and skills that complement your major. Come see us If you're still in the deciding phase of your college search, there is no better way to make your decision than by visiting Wichita State. During your visit you’ll explore our campus, talk to current students, meet a faculty advisor and get a feel for what it's like to be a Shocker. Schedule a visit Request more info 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©