Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Bursar Bursar right arrow down arrow Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Tuition Guarantee Policy Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance How Fees Are Determined Prior Year Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Academic Year 2021-2022 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2020-2021 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2019-2020 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Paying your Bill right arrow down arrow Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits Refunds right arrow down arrow Direct Deposit Enrollment Refund Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Refund Appeals right arrow down arrow Tuition Refund Appeals Process Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Insurance Past Due Accounts right arrow down arrow Collections Payment Plans Collections Timeline Loans right arrow down arrow Short Term Loan Loan Repayment Student Loan FAQ's Tax Forms & Disclosures right arrow down arrow Form 1098-T right arrow down arrow Detailed Explantion of the 1098-T Form 1098-T FAQs Form 1042-S Banking Contract Disclosure Contact Us right arrow down arrow The Team Bursar Contact Form Home » About UC » Office of the Bursar » Loans » Student Loan FAQ's Set Navigation title in component Short Term Loan Loan Repayment Student Loan FAQ's Student Loan FAQ's Who is ECSI? right arrow down arrow Heartland Campus Solutions ECSI is our billing and payment service provider for Perkins Loans, Health Profession Loans, Nursing Loans, and Institutional/Long-Term Loans. The borrower has the opportunity to view account information and set-up payments on-line (https://heartland.ecsi.net or call 888-549-3274). ECSI’s business hours are 7:30 am to 9:00 pm EST, Monday through Friday. Is the Federal Perkins loan the same as my Federal Direct Stafford loan? right arrow down arrow No. The Federal Perkins loan is separate and not related to any Federal Direct Stafford loan lending program. Perkins loans are administered by the school; Direct Stafford loans are administered by Department of Education loan servicers. How will I be billed for my loan repayment? right arrow down arrow You will be billed for your Perkins, Health Professions, Nursing, Nurse Faculty, and Institutional loans by Heartland Campus Solutions ECSI (ECSI). You will NOT be billed for these loans on your university bill. How can I find all of my Federal Student loans? right arrow down arrow Visit studentaid.gov. The National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) is the US Department of Education’s central database for student aid. NSLDS provides a centralized, integrated view of Title IV loans and Pell grants. What if I default? Do I have options? right arrow down arrow Yes. Contact us at 513-556-3431 or coloffic@uc.edu. Can I pay my loan online or set up monthly installments? right arrow down arrow Yes, visit https://heartland.ecsi.net and select Your Payment Options or call 888-549-3274. Transaction fees may apply. I am having trouble making my loan payments. How do I apply for forbearance? right arrow down arrow APPLICATION PROCESS Go to ECSI’s website for deferment forms Under School Name enter University of Cincinnati, select and hit continue Select the forbearance form you qualify for and click the PDF icon Follow instructions and return to ECSI Interest will continue to accrue during forbearance. You will receive monthly bills for the accrued interest. Although you are not required to pay the interest each month, we recommend that you do to avoid facing a high interest payment at the end of the forbearance period. Forbearance offers no post deferment grace period and accrued interest cannot be capitalized. For more information, visit Understanding Loan Benefits, Repayment Options, and Forgiveness Benefits in ECSI’s Help Center or contact us at 513-556-3431. Is my loan payment history reported to the credit bureaus? right arrow down arrow All loans are reported to the major credit bureaus by ECSI. This occurs at the time the loan is disbursed and continues until the loan is paid in full. Current as well as delinquent payments are reported. As a result, during your loan repaying period you have an opportunity to establish a favorable credit rating. How and when can I contact ECSI? right arrow down arrow You can contact ECSI by phone at 888-549-3274, or by email at cservice@ecsi.net. ECSI’s hours are 7:30 am to 9:00 pm EST, Monday through Friday. For more information, visit https://heartland.ecsi.net Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top