Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information Alumni Menu Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information Home Alumni Services Career Career Close Menu Home Services Email & online tools UW NetID Transcripts Career BECU GEICO Update your information Here are some ways you can connect with your UW community and grow your career. Join the UWAA UWAA members belong to a community of 60,000 Huskies who have chosen to stay connected to the UW. Members enjoy: Networking opportunities, including events featuring free professional headshots Borrowing privileges at UW Libraries on all three campuses and access to EBSCO Alumni Edition’s thousands of online journals to keep up with the latest developments in your field Discounts on grad school test prep and career development services Visit UWalum.com/join and become a member today! Use the UW Career & Internship Center The Career & Internship Center (134 Mary Gates Hall) has extensive resources for job hunters, including: Tips and best practices for getting your resume to the top of the pile. Find resume examples in the DIY Resources page Grad school help, from deciding to pursue postgraduate studies to finding a program that’s a good fit for you Free career coaching for three years after graduation for UW Seattle alumni, including mock interviews and one-on-one coaching sessions Online Resources UW alumni have access to a variety of online career resources. Please note that many of these tools will require a UW NetID and password. (Need help with your UW NetID? Recover your UW NetID, reset your password and more here.) UW Husky Landing is the powerful professional networking tool for the UW community. Whether you’re looking for your first job out of college or a seasoned professional looking to build your network, there’s a place here for you. Looking for career advice that goes beyond your usual “how-to” focus on resumes, interviews or cover letters? Career Conversations is an audio series that presents speakers with unique perspectives on relevant topics for you and your professional development, from building relationships to setting boundaries in the workplace. Career-minded Huskies get together online at the UW Alumni Group on LinkedIn. Pick up a new skill and advance your career! UW students, staff, faculty and alumni enjoy free, unlimited access to LinkedIn Learning‘s library of high-quality, on-demand instructional videos. Topics include project management, writing tips, online analytics and more. Vault lets you see the inside story on thousands of top employers and hundreds of internship programs. Review company profiles, see what your industry is looking for and sharpen your resumes and cover letters with their robust library of templates. They also have videos to help you nail those interviews. Take your job search global! Whether you’re in the U.S. and looking abroad or an international Husky looking to work in the U.S., GoinGlobal has comprehensive guides, job boards and resources for you. Handshake — the UW’s online job and internship database — has more than 10,000 opportunities posted annually. Search staff and faculty positions at all three UW campuses, learn how to connect with recruiters and find out about upcoming career through the UW’s jobs site. Home Services Email & online tools UW NetID Transcripts Career BECU GEICO Update your information UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA