Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Nursing (BSN) – Accelerated Second Degree BSN Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Nursing Department(s) Nursing Practice In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. For individuals who are not Registered Nurses but who hold a baccalaureate or higher degree from an accredited institution of higher education (meeting university transfer eligibility requirements). Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog year, including any minors. Students should consult with an advisor in the College of Nursing Undergraduate Student Services Office for clarification of questions regarding prerequisite requirements. A minimum overall GPA of 2.5 and a minimum 2.5 GPA in the nursing major are required for continuation and graduation from the nursing program. UCF Residency requirement: 30 hours (if applicable) The program is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) and approved by the Florida State Board of Nursing. The Nursing, Accelerated Second Degree B.S.N. program will meet the educational eligibility criteria for the National Council for Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN) for obtaining a license to practice as a registered nurse in Florida. Out-of-state instructional limitations apply to this degree program. For more information on this and how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-Nursing-Second-Degree-BSN.pdf View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Advanced Nursing Professor CCU Nurse CNS Clinical Nurse Specialist Clinical Nursing Instructor Clinical Nursing Professor Community Health Nurse Coronary Care Unit Nurse Emergency Room RN Endoscopy Registered Nurse Hospice Registered Nurse Obstetrical Nurse PACU Nurse Pediatric Registered Nurse Post-Anesthesia Care Unit Nurse Psychiatric Nurse RN Registered Nurse Registered Nursing Professor Triage Registered Nurse Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Nursing programs Bachelors Nursing (BSN) - Accelerated Second Degree BSN University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × For individuals who are not Registered Nurses but who hold a baccalaureate or higher degree from an accredited institution of higher education (meeting university transfer eligibility requirements). Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog year, including any minors. Students should consult with an advisor in the College of Nursing Undergraduate Student Services Office for clarification of questions regarding prerequisite requirements. A minimum overall GPA of 2.5 and a minimum 2.5 GPA in the nursing major are required for continuation and graduation from the nursing program. UCF Residency requirement: 30 hours (if applicable) The program is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) and approved by the Florida State Board of Nursing. The Nursing, Accelerated Second Degree B.S.N. program will meet the educational eligibility criteria for the National Council for Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN) for obtaining a license to practice as a registered nurse in Florida. Out-of-state instructional limitations apply to this degree program. For more information on this and how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-Nursing-Second-Degree-BSN.pdf Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 57 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: NUR3065 - Health Assessment (2) NUR3065L - Health Assessment Lab (1) NUR3028 - Essentials of Nursing Practice (3) NUR3028L - Essentials of Nursing Practice Lab (1) NUR3755L - Essentials of Nursing Practice Clinical (2) NUR3616 - Health Promotion Across the Lifespan (2) NUR3616L - Health Promotion Across the Lifespan Clinical (1) NUR3125 - Pathophysiology for Nursing Practice (3) NUR3145 - Pharmacology for Nursing Practice (3) NUR3225 - Nursing Care of the Adult I (3) NUR3225L - Nursing Care of the Adult I: Clinical Practice: (2) NUR3816 - Professional Nurse Seminar (1) NUR3445 - Nursing Care of Families (4) NUR3445L - Nursing Care of Families Clinical (2) NUR3167 - Accelerated Nursing Research Seminar (1) NUR4227 - Nursing Care of the Adult II (4) NUR4227L - Nursing Care of the Adult II: Clinical Practice (3) NUR4829 - Accelerated Transitioning into Professional Practice as a Leader (3) NUR4257 - Introduction to Critical Care Nursing (3) NUR4945L - Nursing Practicum (4) NUR4535 - Psychiatric Mental Health Nursing (3) NUR4535L - Psychiatric Mental Health Clinical (2) NUR4637 - Public and Community Health Nursing (3) NUR4637L - Public Health Nursing Clinical (1) Students without a research course on their transcript must take NUR 3165 as prerequisite for NUR 3167 Restricted Electives 3 Total Credits Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: One College of Nursing elective. A list of approved restricted elective courses is found in the myKnight audit. Grand Total Credits: 60 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida