Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Excellence & Innovation HOME Academics Excellence & Innovation In This Section Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising The Boston College Difference Students choose Boston College because they want to seize opportunities and shape a college experience that will have meaning. Our academic approach combines intellectual, social, ethical, and spiritual development. We challenge you to become a lifelong learner dedicated to the common good. In Focus Our leading faculty and scholars are dedicated to finding solutions to the world's most complex problems. More BC Research Urban Science Education Michael Barnett In Professor Michael Barnett's urban agriculture program, high school students hone their science skills, provide underserved populations with healthy alternatives, and reform local food systems. Extreme Space Weather Patricia Doherty Institute for Scientific Research director Pat Doherty brought together 150 of the world’s leading scientists for a U.N./U.S. workshop to a develop an international policy to address space weather. Morality Lab Liane Young How do we know right from wrong? Undergraduates work alongside Associate Professor of Psychology Liane Young to investigate the science behind decision-making in her Morality Lab. Start @ Shea The student executive team of the Edmund H. Shea Jr. Center for Entrepreneurship inspires and engages students to make their ideas happen. More About Start @ Shea Companies launched by Boston College students or alumni in the past decade have garnered more than $100 million in venture backing. Ever to Excel Awards Each year, the Office of Student Involvement presents awards to outstanding members of the Boston College community. Student awards recognize the individual's contribution to their co-curricular life at the University, their growth in leadership roles, and their creative involvement in campus life. Play Jeffrey S. Keith Award Stephanie Makowski '17 "I never imaged something like this would ever happen to me, but when it did the outpouring of love made me see it in such a special way." Each year a student is honored who faced a physical or other significant challenge in his or her life while continuing to excel in academic and co-curricular activities. Stephanie lost her father to cancer, but continued to lead Kairos, participate in the Appalachia Volunteers program, and has been involved with many programs through the nursing school. Play Ever to Excel Award Jamaica Magis "These students are the future leaders. These students will be creating policies. They are going to be the change. And so they have to start now. Magis moves them to be better human beings." Each year a student group that made an outstanding contribution to Boston College in areas such as education, social justice, service, and safety receives this award. Play Alfred Feliciano and Valerie Lewis Award Anthony Docanto '19 "When I look back I' ve always had mentors, people who guided me, so I always knew I wanted to do the same thing and pave the path for people who come behind me." Each year, the Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center honors a student who made extraordinary contributions to further the ideals of the AHANA (African-American, Hispanic, Asian, and Native American) acronym, and who provided leadership to help the Boston College community actualize the AHANA concept. Play Reverend John R. Trzaska, S.J. Award Asst. Prof. Laura Anne Lowery "I get to be part of educating the whole person, and that has always been my mission in life: how to help students become better versions of themselves and bring more light to the world, in whatever way is best for them." Each year a faculty member is honored who expanded the horizons, skills, and value systems of Boston College students by providing support and guidance outside of the classroom. Play St. Ignatius Award for Faith in Action Sarah Hansman '18 "I have found my niche. There is something really special about being able to take people from BC, the BC culture, and place it in an isolated space where the only thing to do is reflect, have conversations and hear peoples' stories." Each year a student is honored who exemplifies the imperative to "Seek God in All Things," and demonstrates love for God by serving his or her neighbor and inspiring others within the co-curricular environment to do the same. Play Robert A. Sherwood Award Isaac Holterman '17 "Having a place to talk about the intersection of being gay and being a Catholic, being biracial - formation spaces have played a role in giving me a space where I could be honest with myself." Each year the Office of the Dean of Students honors a student who demonstrates a commitment and contribution to community and civic engagement through excellence in his or her leadership and service to the Boston College community and beyond. Joycestick: The Gamification of 'Ulysses' “We look at VR as the ultimate empathy machine, in that we don’t simply want to excite the readers – the viewers – but to move them to engage them with the emotions and events in the book.” Associate Professor Joseph Nugent More About Joycestick Visit the Joycestick Website academic tools Academic Calendar Course Catalog Library Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College