Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Schlesinger Library / Collections Schlesinger Library / Collections June Jordan June Jordan (1936–2002)—an award-winning writer and social and political activist—was an influential voice of liberation in the civil rights, feminist, antiwar, and gay and lesbian rights movements. Toggle information Close detail panel Portrait of June Jordan seated in front of bookcase. June Jordan Papers. Hollis #: 8001072996 Related June Jordan Papers June Jordan Audio Collection June Jordan Video Collection June Jordan Website Research Guide: African American Women Jordan published more than 25 works of poetry, fiction, and nonfiction, and she was also a playwright, librettist, and lyricist. Her journalism appeared in magazines and newspapers around the world, and she contributed a regular column to the monthly left-wing magazine The Progressive. View details View details View details View details View details 01 / 05 Slide left Slide right June Jordan 01 / 05 Slide left Slide right Close modal window Details Close detail panel Portrait of June Jordan seated outdoors in grass. June Jordan Papers. Details Close detail panel Portrait of June Jordan seated in front of bookcase. June Jordan Papers. Details Close detail panel June Jordan, on far right, with Toni Morrison, Alice Walker, Nana Maynard, Ntzoke Shange, Vertamae Grosvenor and others, 1977. June Jordan Papers. Details Close detail panel "The Miracle of Black Poetry in America" poster. June Jordan Papers. Uncatalogued. Details Close detail panel "Poetry for the People" poster. June Jordan Papers. Uncatalogued. Collections 01 / 06 Slide left Slide right 01 Florynce Kennedy 02 Pauli Murray 03 Shirley Graham Du Bois 04 Betty Friedan 05 Dorothy West 06 Black Women Oral History Project See All Collections Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College