Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search SMU Ignited Goals Enrich teaching and research Enrich teaching and research Goal: $600 million This is our moment to join the highest rank of universities – to accelerate knowledge and tackle grand challenges. Give now SMU Ignited will invest in faculty pursuits that have substantial societal impact and address important challenges. With your support, we will move significantly toward the top research designation for U.S. universities, enrich teaching and enable students to benefit from enhanced classroom and laboratory experiences. With your support for SMU Ignited, we will expand graduate and doctoral fellowships to encourage students to excel and develop into experts who are leaders in their fields. SMU Ignited investments will expand endowed positions for both new and current faculty members and academic leaders to help us recruit and retain leading educators. Resources for research, travel and graduate assistants sustain faculty members’ groundbreaking research and dynamic instruction. Your support of SMU Ignited will create interdisciplinary programs that address the needs of our rapidly changing world. These new programs will be built on our academic strengths, including library resources, new technologies and modernized facilities. “Major changes occurring in higher education require that universities work creatively and collaboratively, because innovation lies at the intersection of different disciplines and backgrounds. Making sure we work at those intersections will create real opportunities for SMU.” — Elizabeth G. Loboa, SMU Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search