Skip to main content ISU Index Menu iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z ISU Quick Links Menu Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Integrated Pest Management Search form Search Main menu Main Menu About Us People Programs IPM YouTube Clinic Hort/Home Pest News ICM News NC IPM Center Crop Protection Network You are here Home Protect Iowa Crops Learn More about the Iowa Pest Resistance Management Program What is the Iowa Pest Resistance Management Program? The Iowa Pest Resistance Management Program is a grassroots, collaborative effort to protect Iowa crops from costly pest resistance that threatens our crop production and our state’s economy. The program is made up of individuals and groups representing all parts of the Iowa community, including farmers and landowners, small and national businesses, scientists, researchers and state regulators. Together, these groups and individuals have leveraged their resources, expertise and time to help inform the public about pest resistance, find new pest management strategies and encourage public support and adoption of these practices. How can you get involved? The Iowa Pest Resistance Management Program (IPRMP) was designed for you to get involved. The program features four pilot programs across the state that are working to combat various types of pest resistance. These include: Managing Western Corn Rootworm in Northeast Iowa; the Harrison County Pest Resistance Management Project in Southwest Iowa; Managing Soybean Aphid in Northwest Iowa; and Managing Herbicide-Resistant Waterhemp in Story County. To learn more about the IPRMP and the pilot programs, check out the Q&A here. To learn how you can lend your support or develop your own community project, please email isuipm@iastate.edu. IPRMP Questions and Answers Click here to learn more about the IPRMP. Version 1 of the IPRMP is here. IPRMP Introduction--Webinar Recording Harrison County Pilot The Harrison County Pest Resistance Management Project team created 2020 field trials to help local farmers see examples of local weed pressure and strategies for management. This video introduces the 2020 soybean trait trials, which include both Dicamba + Glyphosate trials and 2,4-d + Glufosinate + Glyphosate trials. Learn how the trials were prepared, planted and managed. Story County Network The Story County Farm Resistance Network formed in 2019 in response to weeds that are becoming more difficult to control. The group shares common goals: to preserve the effectiveness of management tools and to encourage others to help. So far, the team members include farmers, COOP advisers, ag retailer reps and ISU Extension. Pests What’s the deal with pest resistance? Pests – insects, disease and weeds -- are a regular part of life. For large areas, our pest removal practices have included spraying safe pesticides or relying on plant genetics to manage them. But many pests can reproduce quickly and often, allowing them to evolve and develop tolerance to some of our easiest, cheapest and most effective management tools. Some pests are completely tolerant to some pesticides. When this occurs, it is called pest resistance, because they can now resist and survive a specific management tactic that previously controlled them. Pest resistance is a natural process. However, when it comes to something as valuable as our food and when there’s no easy way to fight a pest, it can lead to yield reductions and increasing costs. Farmers, landowners, scientists, private businesses, and groups of individuals are finding ways to preserve our management tools, prevent pest resistance, and develop management strategies for already resistant pests. Recent News Possible tool in the war on resistant weeds Yellow soybean too early this season? Twospotted spider mite scouting reminders Corn Silks (and Feeders) are Out – Assess Pollination in Fields more news Recent Blog Posts Mixed bag in beans 2021 Palmer amaranth Tour: Old Habits Die Hard New counties confirmed for soybean gall midge in Iowa Regional Update: August 2 to August 10, 2021 more posts College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Department of Agronomy Department of Entomology Department of Horticulture Department of Plant Pathology & Microbiology Integrated Pest Management 1344 Advanced Teaching & Research Bldg 2213 Pammel Drive Ames, IA 50011 isuipm@iastate.edu Facebook Twitter YouTube Site Index Site map Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility