Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Work-life for Faculty & Staff You are here Home Life at Temple Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy Work-life for Faculty & Staff Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Temple has developed new and revised policies and resources for faculty and staff. These changes are intended to support employees’ well-being during the pandemic. The university also supports faculty with classroom instruction. Learn more about teaching online and enforcing healthy behaviors in the classroom. Contents Mask GuidelinesCampus OperationsFlexible Work ArrangementsSick Time Policy Well-being Programs Mask Guidelines The city of Philadelphia’s updated mask guidelines no longer require masks to be worn in all indoor spaces. In accordance with the city, Temple University has reinstated its previous March 21, 2022, mask guidelines. Mask usage is optional in most campus spaces, including dining halls, residence halls, common areas, nonclinical office spaces, meeting rooms and the Liacouras Center. Masking will continue to be required in classrooms, labs, studios, healthcare facilities, shuttles or other locations where in-person classes (including examinations) are taking place. Mask usage will also be optional at the spring 2022 Commencement ceremonies. Types of Masks Cloth masks alone are no longer adequate for protecting yourself and others. While on campus, you have three options for masks. Good: a surgical mask with multiple layers of nonwoven material Better: a surgical mask with a cloth mask over it Best: a KN95 mask The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that you wear the most protective mask you can that fits well (completely covers your nose and mouth) and that you will wear consistently. KN95 masks are available online, in stores and pharmacies. Project N95 is an online source of reliable high-quality masks. Campus Operations To help lower the risk of transmission posed by variants, the university updated its COVID-19 guidelines for the spring 2022 semester. Testing A COVID-19 test is not a requirement for employees returning to on-campus work, however, we do strongly encourage you to get a test, regardless of your vaccine status. If you do test, please submit your results, including results from at-home tests, to the patient health portal by uploading a photo of your test. If you tested positive over the break, you do not need to test again for 90 days as false positives may result. Employees granted a COVID-19 vaccine exemption for the fall semester are required to resume regular testing if they will be on campus for classes or other activities. Failure to comply with the testing program may result in loss of access to campus facilities and other disciplinary action. Beginning Monday, May 9, 2022, PCR tests will no longer be used as part of the university’s COVID-19 testing program. All tests administered to students, faculty and staff at Paley Hall and the Student Faculty Center will be done with rapid COVID-19 antigen tests. Boosters We ask that all members of our community who have been fully vaccinated to get a booster shot if eligible, which means you have been fully vaccinated for at least five months if you received a two-shot vaccine or at least two months if you received a one-shot vaccine. If you have already received a booster from somewhere other than Temple, please upload your booster shot information at temple.edu/vaxupload. Boosters are the best way to prevent yourself from becoming infected or becoming seriously ill if you are infected. If you need a booster shot but recently tested positive, it is recommended that you wait two weeks after the date of your positive test before getting your shot. Health services is currently providing weekly COVID-19 vaccine clinics on Main Campus and booster shots are available from Temple Health System. Learn more about getting vaccinated at Temple. Quarantine and Isolation If you test positive for COVID-19, please follow the updated guidelines from the CDC regarding quarantine and isolation. Isolate for five days, leaving quarantine on day six if your symptoms have improved and you do not have a fever. Those leaving quarantine on the sixth day must continue to wear a mask while around others for five additional days. After 10 days, continue to wear a mask according to Temple’s mask guidelines. Flexible Work Arrangements Temple’s full-time and part-time employees can request accommodations through Human Resources, including requests for flexible work arrangements based on individual circumstances. To learn more, log in to TUportal below and access Temple’s flexible work arrangements guidelines in the COVID-19 Information tab. Log in to TUportal Sick Time Policy Modification One of the most important steps to keeping yourself and others safe is to monitor your own health and, if you are sick and/or exposed to COVID-19, stay home. Temple will temporarily modify its sick leave policy beginning July 1, 2020. During this time period, bargaining and nonbargaining unit employees may not only request sick leave for their own illness, but they may also request sick leave from their current and banked time so they may isolate due to acquiring COVID-19 and/or quarantine due to being identified as a “close contact” of someone diagnosed with COVID-19, and/or care for family members who are sick due to COVID-19. As with all absences, Temple may require documentation. The university will also continue to follow all relevant rules regarding attendance as well as Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) requirements. If you need additional information regarding FMLA leave, contact Absence Management at 215-926-2282 or email loa@temple.edu. The university will continue to monitor the effectiveness and challenges associated with this modification. This flexibility modification may cease in any department in which excessive use of sick time may occur. Well-being Programs Temple is committed to the well-being of its employees during this time. Human Resources provides the following tools and resources so employees can seek support. Please note that in order to participate in the Independence Blue Cross and Magellan Behavioral Health resources, coverage under the university benefit plans is required. LifeWorks resources are available to all full-time employees. LifeWorks—Employee Assistance Program LifeWorks provides personalized well-being resources to support employees and their families with issues related to health, life, money and work. LifeWorks provides free confidential counseling, consultations and community referrals, as well as online access to hundreds of articles, podcasts, toolkits, webinars and more. Services are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. To access LifeWorks online, log in to TUportal and, in the Staff Tools tab, select “LifeWorks Employee Assistance Program” from TUapplications. Mobile Access is available by downloading the LifeWorks app from the Apple Store or Google Play. Contact Phone: 888-267-8126 Magellan The following resources are available from Magellan. The On to Better Health online program is a confidential behavioral therapy program that provides resources to help employees manage stress, including articles, personalized guided therapy, self-assessments and videos. The program is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. To access the On to Better Health program, log in to the Independence Blue Cross member portal and from the health and well-being tab, select “value—added services.” Speak with a behavioral healthcare provider by phone or video chat. Contact a telebehavior health provider by calling 800-688-1911. A 24-hour, toll-free crisis hotline and crisis text line provide access to certified, licensed mental health clinicians. Employees can call 800-327-7451 (TTY 711), or text SUPPORT to 78137 from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. EST, Monday through Friday. Texts received outside of these hours will be directed to the crisis telephone hotline. Independence Blue Cross Independence Blue Cross Health Coach offers one-on-one personalized help from a registered nurse, who can answer questions about health concerns for employees and their families, including questions about chronic conditions and illnesses. Employees can contact a health coach by phone 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Contact Phone: 800-275-2583 /coronavirus/work-life-faculty-staff/faculty-teaching-information Faculty Teaching Information Read about how Temple is supporting our faculty members, including resources for online instruction and tips for adhering to healthy behaviors in the classroom. Access resources and tools to help faculty members with instruction Back to Main Coronavirus Page Go back to Life at TempleMore in Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.