Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Department of Biostatistics Home About Academics Doctoral Program Ph.D. FAQs Master's Program Undergraduate Concentration Career Information Series Resources Dissertation Spotlight Courses Research People News Site Navigation Home Statistics Seminars Series Seminar Archive About Job Postings Our Partners Academics Doctoral Program Ph.D. FAQs Master's Program Sc.M. Degree 5th Year (A.M.)/OGE NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics Welcome from the chair Master's FAQs Undergraduate Concentration Career Information Series Resources Dissertation Spotlight Courses Introductory Biostatistics Courses Research People Administration Faculty Students Current Doctoral Students Current Master’s Students Alumni News News Item Submission Ph.D. FAQs How do I apply to the Biostatistics Program? Applicants to the Biostatistics program should apply through SOPHAS, a centralized application service for accredited schools and programs in public health. For more information on how to apply please visit the SOPHAS application instructions. If you have any questions, please contact SOPHAS. Sophas Customer Service Phone: (617) 612-2090 Open Monday-Friday, 9am-5pm EST. Customer Service E-Mail: [email protected] Apply through SOPHAS What financial support is available to incoming students? All Ph.D. students (including international students) are admitted with full aid and are eligible for continuing aid pending satisfactory academic progress. This financial aid includes tuition, stipend and health insurance. You do not need to separately apply for financial aid. What type of coursework preparation do I need? What type of undergraduate degree do I need? We do not require a specific type of undergraduate degree, and indeed we encourage applications from students with a variety of academic backgrounds. Course work in advanced calculus, linear algebra, and probability using calculus are expected. What current research is being conducted in Biostatistics at Brown? The faculty within Biostatistics are involved in several major areas of research activity including analysis of biomarkers and diagnostic tests, causal inference and missing data, time series and functional data analysis, spatial data and network analysis, bioinformatics, longitudinal data, meta-analysis, multilevel modeling, and statistical learning. For detailed information on our faculty, their research activity, and methodological expertise, visit our Biostatistics Research page and the Faculty Contact page. If I already have an M.S. in Statistics, does that give me an advantage, or do you prefer undergraduate applicants? If all other conditions are the same, having the M.S. is a plus. Are GRE's required? The GRE is not required. Are TOEFL scores required? Do TOEFL scores expire? How can I get a TOEFL waiver if I have attended a US University/Institution? TOEFL scores are required of international students, unless a student has or is expecting to receive a bachelor's or master's degree from a U.S. university or from an institution where the primary language is English. TOEFL or IELTS scores submitted should be from within the last two years. For more detail, see the Graduate School policy. Brown requires a score of at least 90 for admission. Official TOEFL scores should be sent to both SOPHAS (TOEFL reporting code 5688) and Brown University Graduate School (reporting code 3094). If you are an international student that has or is expecting a degree from a U.S. university or institution you will qualify for a TOEFL waiver through SOPHAS. There is no need to email to request a waiver - you will automatically qualify once your application is submitted. How many applications do the programs receive? How many applicants are accepted? The number of applications received and offers made varies from year to year. On average we have 4 students in each class. Should I apply to the Ph.D. or master’s program? Students interested in pursuing a career in research should generally apply to the Ph.D. program, although many of the applicants to the Ph.D. program already have a master’s in Biostatistics or related field. Those interested in pursuing a non-academic career may find that a master’s degree is sufficient, although increasingly directors of statistics programs in industry and government have doctoral degrees. If I am applying to the Ph.D. program may I also be considered for the master's program? Yes, there is a box to check on the SOPHAS application if you would like your application considered for the master's program. Do you have a pre-application evaluation process to determine if I'm well qualified for acceptance? Unfortunately not. We review in the context of the other applications. Academics Doctoral Program Ph.D. FAQs Master's Program Undergraduate Concentration Career Information Series Resources Dissertation Spotlight Courses Apply through SOPHAS Department of Biostatistics Department of Biostatistics Brown University Box G-S121-7 121 S Main St, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9831 Fax: 401-863-9182 Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top