Skip over navigation Princeton A to Z Search Princeton Site banner image Overview Employees Retirees Volunteers Home navbeta Welcome to the 2014 Princeton University United Way Campaign October 29 — November 21 The 2014 Princeton University United Way Campaign will be held from October 29 through November 21 on both main campus and the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory. For more information about donation disbursements and local United Way programs, go to the United Way of Greater Mercer County website or the United Way of Bucks County, PA website. Check back here to see our progress throughout the Campaign. 2014 Campaign total (to date): $ 0.00 2013 Campaign total: $ 169,737.65 For more information about the United Way campaign, please contact your departmental United Way volunteer or Jaclyn Immordino, campaign coordinator, at 258-9149. Less than 15 percent of all donations cover standard indirect costs related to management and fundraising efforts. This amount is well within the normal range recommended and monitored by charity watchdog organizations. All organizations receiving funds from the United Way of Greater Mercer County are required to be in compliance with the USA Patriot Act. United Way of Greater Mercer County will retain funds designated to agencies failing to meet compliance requirements for use in funding human service needs in the community. Information filed with the attorney general concerning this charitable solicitation and the percentage of contributions received by the charity during the last reporting period that were dedicated to the charitable purpose may be obtained from the attorney general of New Jersey by calling (973) 504-6215 and is available on the internet at www.state.nj.us/lps/ca/ocp/charities.htm. Registration with the attorney general does not imply endorsement. United Way acknowledges that no tangible goods or services have been given in consideration of this contribution. More Information and Forms Guide to Giving (.pdf) Pledge Form (.pdf) Where the Money Goes... (.pdf) What This Place Needs...Is You (.pdf) VIDEO: United Way of Greater Mercer County. Play video (3:28): YouTube © 2014 The Trustees of Princeton University, Princeton NJ 08544 | website feedback | top Last update: October 2014