Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University University Library Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Index Hours My Library Card Give Research & Collections Find Books & Media (Quick Search) Article Indexes & Databases e-Books e-Journals - A-Z list Specific Article by Citation or DOI Course Reserves Movies and TV Streaming Video Collections WorldCat (Open Access) Catalogs of Other Libraries Iowa State Collections DataShare: ISU's Data Repository Digital Collections Digital Initiatives Digital Press Digital Repository @ Iowa State University Special Collections and University Archives Research Help Research and Course Guides Quick Search Tips Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Material Find Audiovisual Materials Find Books Find Census Data Find Government Documents Find Images Find Legal Research Find Magazines, Journals Find Manuscripts and Archives Find Maps Find Microforms Find Newspapers and News Find Standards Cite Sources Cite Sources Overview Endnote Ask Us! Find Your Librarian Collections Areas Leisure Collection Media Center Periodical Room Reference Materials Call Numbers in Parks Library Library Storage Building Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Overview About the Design Reading Room Course Reserves - Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Staff Veterinary Medicine Library Restricted Building Access About the Vet Med Library Veterinary Medicine Library Staff Borrowing Main Desk Check Out and Return Request Books and More Pick From Shelf Service Recall or Hold an Item Renew an Item Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery (ILL/DD) ILL/DD Overview ILL/DD Account Login Interlibrary Loan FAQ Libraries Requesting ISU Materials Unaffiliated User Terms and Conditions Missing Items Loan Periods Fines (overdue/lost items) Book a Media Item for Classroom Use Who May Borrow? Your Library Card Help & Services Accessibility Services Accessibility Services Overview Services & Equipment Available Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Accessibility Services at Branch Libraries For You Services for Students Faculty & Instructors Distance Learners International Nest Alumni & Visitors Assistance Lost & Found Find Your Librarian Ask a Librarian How Do I ... Library FAQ Access E-Resources Access My Library Card Get Something That's Not Available Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Materials Cite Sources Quick Search Tips Teaching & Class Support Library Instruction Overview Library 160 Course-related Instruction Course Reserves Research and Course Guides Workshops Copyright Information Open Scholarship Services Binding theses Solution Center Systems Status Spaces & Computers Study Rooms Group Study Rooms Research Study Rooms Quiet Areas Reserve a Library Space Parks Library spaces Floor & Tier Maps Accessible and Sensory Friendly Spaces Learning Connections Center Bookends Café International Nest Mindfulness Room Where to find ... Room Number Listings Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Diaper changing stations and lactation room Restrooms Library Classroom Use Computers & Technology Assistive Technology Computers and Computer Labs Interactive Displays for Group Work Laptop & Equipment Checkout Group Equipment Loans Outlets and Wireless Printing, Copying, Scanning Other Equipment Parks Libro NVivo Software Access Design Reading Room Veterinary Medicine Library Ask Us! Book a Media Item for Classroom Use Policy Most videorecordings in the Library's collection (VHS, DVDs, etc.) are intended for individual (as opposed to group) use, in compliance with copyright law. The Library permits group use of videorecordings, either within or outside library facilities, only if the following requirements are met: Instructors may use videorecordings in any ISU course for which students are required to register and pay fees. Student groups, clubs, organizations, and societies do not qualify as ISU courses. An instructor or class member appointed by the instructor must use the videorecording for face-to-face teaching activities. Student led classes must be verified by the instructor. All persons present at the performance must be currently enrolled in the course. Items may be booked up to 4 months in the future. The maximum allowed booking length is 7 days. Media items currently on Reserve may not be booked by other instructors for classroom use. Please contact Main Desk staff for assistance. Group playback of a copyrighted videorecording for non-course related use is not permitted, nor will the Library loan material for that purpose. Please see Audio-Visual policy for more information. Procedure Requests should be made at least 3 days prior to the date needed for best service. Use Quick Search to locate the desired item Click on the Sign In link in the yellow bar (appearing above search results) Select a Sign In option and enter the requested information Click on the title of the item you wish to book Click Request Select the Booking radio button Select your desired Pickup Location Booked items may be picked up at the Parks Library Main Desk, or sent to the Design Reading Room or Veterinary Medicine Library. Please allow transit time of 2-3 business days if picking up at Design or Vet Med. Select your Start and End dates (bookings may be for up to 7 days) In the Comments field, please add the course code, course number, and number of students (e.g. HIST 341 - 18) Click Request to submit your booking. To verify your booking: Close out of the item you just booked Click on your name in the upper right corner of the screen Click on the My Library Card option Your booked item will appear under "Requests" on the overview page. Walk-in and phone requests are also available. Call or visit the Mainn Desk at 515-294-3961 Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m.- 5:00 p.m., to schedule a video for classroom use. How will I know when my booked item is ready for check-out? You will be notified by email when your booked item is ready and available for check-out. It may be as early as 7 days prior to the requested booking date. When can I pick up my booked item? Booked items can be picked up any time during the open hours of the desired pick-up location. You must present a valid ISU Library card to retrieve and check-out a booked item. I need my booked item captioned, how do I let someone know? Please contact us at libmedia@iastate.edu at least 4 weeks in advance for captioning. Can I send someone else to pick up my booked item Yes, as long as the person who is picking up the booked item has the valid ISU Library card of the person who made the booking. When is my booked item due? Will there be a fine if I return it later than the due date? Booked items are due on the end date of the booking period. For example, if you booked an item from September 3rd to September 5th, the item will be due back on September 5th. Fines accrue on all overdue items. You may return items any time during the library's open hours. Any items not returned (or returned damaged from causes other than normal playback) will be assessed the replacement cost plus any billing fees. Questions? Contact the Main Desk at 515-294-3961 or at libmedia@iastate.edu University Library University Library 701 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011-2102 Ask Us! 515 294-3642 phone Email Webmaster Facebook Twitter Follow us FDLP Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information