Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home Research Research Research at the iSchool The study of information extends beyond any existing field. At the iSchool, research transcends boundaries and crosses disciplines in order to understand the ways information and technology change our behavior, our organizations, and our society. Our Faculty Explore iSchool Research Research Areas Research at the iSchool explores the interactions of people and information; the processes of managing and organizing information for meaning and use; and the impact of new technologies and behaviors on individuals, organizations and society. Grants & Awards Research funding at the iSchool averages $1-2 million a year, with awards from National Science Foundation, Institute of Museum and Library Service, National Endowment for the Humanities, DARPA, Google, the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, and the Sloan Foundation. Labs There are a wide variety of research equipment and lab spaces available at the iSchool. Resuming Research Operations at the School of Information Review the iSchool's phased approach to resuming research operations on campus in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, which closely aligns with the broader UT approach to resuming research operations on the UT campus. Read More A Human-Centered Approach to Information and Technology Research conducted at the iSchool is highly interdisciplinary and investigates a diverse range of topics at the intersection of people, information, and technology. Our Research Labs Virtual Reality & Children's Development Jakki Bailey discusses her work in the field of virtual reality and the effects these technologies have on child development. Addiction Recovery Digital Ecosystem Eric Nordquist discusses his partnership with the Dell Medical School. Latest Research News Nov. 16, 2021 Min Kyung Lee and Ken Fleischmann Collaborate on $3M NSF NRT Grant on Ethical AI Sept. 29, 2021 Ahmer Arif Researches Inclusive Digital Literacy for NSF Convergence Accelerator Program April 21, 2021 Amelia Acker Researches COVID Data Infrastructures Nov. 12, 2020 Texas iSchool Joins Social Justice Informatics Collaborative Effort in City of Austin More News Information & Culture information-culture-journal-logo.png The School of Information is home to Information & Culture, which publishes original, high-quality, peer reviewed articles examining the social and cultural influences and impact of information and its associated technologies, broadly construed, on all areas of human endeavor. Learn More UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022