Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Research Menu About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact The Impact of R1 Baylor's attainment of R1 recognition elevates the University and advances our mission. Voices across campus explain the meaning of R1. Learn More Baylor Among Elite Group of Private R1 Institutions The December 2021 announcement from Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education that Baylor achieved this designation came three years ahead of expectations and marks a remarkable achievement in Baylor's research endeavors. Learn More Global Flourishing Project Record-setting study to break new ground in study of human flourishing Learn More A Preeminent Christian Research University Baylor University’s vision affirms that the world needs a preeminent research university that is unambiguously Christian. In 2021, Baylor was recognized as an R1 research institution, a significant benchmark in the University's continued focus and investment in research at the highest levels. Through top-tier research and scholarship, R1 universities bring their voice to bear in addressing our world’s most meaningful challenges. As Baylor achieves preeminence as a Christian research university, it enables researchers from throughout the University to infuse the quest for solutions, at the highest levels, with Baylor’s distinct voice and mission. FAQ Baylor's R1 Priorities Research News Read More News May 16, 2022 Carter Appointed Dean of Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences Baylor University Provost Nancy Brickhouse, Ph.D., announces that Jason R. Carter, Ph.D., vice president for research, economic development and graduate education at Montana State University, has been selected as the Dean of Baylor’s Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences. Read More May 11, 2022 Inside Baylor's Mass Spectrometry Center Housed in the Baylor Sciences Building, the Mass Spectrometry Center brings state-of-art equipment and resources to Baylor faculty and students, advancing research in numerous departments. Read More Apr. 26, 2022 The Power of Power Distance Belief Success in the education industry partly hinges on successful marketing, and the global reach of the internet presents vast opportunities. Baylor researchers analyze strategic approaches to reaching different cultures. Read More Apr. 11, 2022 Baylor Researchers Contribute on the Most Precise Ever W Boson - Particle Physics Measurement Baylor’s Experimental High Energy Physics group among scientists with significant contributions to the successful maintenance and operation of the experiment measuring one of nature’s force-carrying particles Read More Apr. 6, 2022 The Meaning of R1 Baylor's R1 status is far more than an elite club or glossy résumé item. It positions Baylor to have a significant impact around the world. Baylor faculty explain what that means to them in Baylor Magazine. Read More Mar. 30, 2022 The Community Impact of R1 Nationally-recognized researcher Sara Dolan is an APA "Citizen Psychologist" who has seen firsthand the how research and scholarship can support community wellbeing. She says Baylor's R1 attainment will open new doors to serve the community. Read More Mar. 2, 2022 National Study Examines Link Between Accountability to God, Psychological Well-being Religious believers who embrace accountability to God (or another transcendent guide for life) experience higher levels of psychological well-being, study led by Baylor researcher Matt Bradshaw. Read More Feb. 24, 2022 Student-Engaged Partnership Accelerates Undergraduate Microbiome and Cancer Research Baylor students participate in top-tier research on state-of-the-art equipment, like an anaerobic chamber in Dr. Leigh Greathouse's lab. Learn how a unique partnership, focused on student research opportunities, brought this resource to Baylor. Read More Our Research Commitment 1.1 Campaign Give Light, the philanthropic campaign for Baylor's future, provides significant endowed funding that fueled Baylor's R1 achievement will facilitate continued research growth across campus. 50 Endowed Faculty Positions Through the creation of new endowed faculty positions, including 17 endowed chairs in areas that support growth in research initiatives, Baylor supports high-level teaching and discovery. 60,274 Campaign Donors The Baylor Family is united in support of Baylor's distinct role as the preeminent Christian research university. Baylor stands apart as a Christian research university — a position that empowers our aspiration to become America's preeminent Christian research university. Illuminate, Baylor University's Academic Strategic Plan, has one overarching goal: To bring light to the world as we accelerate our quest toward preeminence as a Christian research university, building on Baylor's historic strengths and strategically investing in new areas of research and service. Learn More About Illuminate HealthData SciencesMaterials ScienceHuman Flourishing, Leadership & EthicsBaylor in Latin AmericaOther Research Initiatives Find a Researcher Meet Baylor researchers whose expertise illuminates meaningful and timely subjects across a variety of platforms. Connections Hear in-depth conversations with Baylor researchers each week on the radio program and podcast Baylor Connections. Resources for Researchers Learn more about the ways Baylor University assists and partners with faculty throughout the research process. Behind the Research Discover what motivates Baylor researchers and explore how their research makes a difference in this video series. General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact