Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Human Resources Human Resources Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office for Institutional Diversity Menu Main Nav Office for Institutional Diversity Contact Back Back Close About Overview Message from the AVP Diversity and Inclusion Statement Allies of Diversity AHANA Faculty, Advisors, & Mentors History OID Newsletter Contact Related Links Notice of Nondiscrimination Programs New Employees Thrive @ BC Overview Affinity Groups Self-Identification Forms Programs Overview Cultural Competence Engagement Modules (CCEM) Diversity and Inclusion Summit Living Out the Jesuit Mission Table Talk Diversity Series University Affiliates Program Voices of Diversity and Inclusion Forum Policies & Compliance Overview Discriminatory Harassment EEO and Affirmative Action Employee Grievance Procedures Federal & State Laws Hate Crimes and Bias-Related Incidents Protocol Notice of Nondiscrimination Reasonable Accommodation for People with Disabilities Title IX Boston College Related Links Self Identification Forms BC Employee Handbook BC Policies Events Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Human Resources Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close University Affiliates Program Home Programs University Affiliates Program Programs Cultural Competence Engagement Modules (CCEM) Diversity and Inclusion Summit Living Out the Jesuit Mission Table Talk Diversity Series University Affiliates Program Voices of Diversity and Inclusion Forum Established in 1999, the Affiliates Program enables Black, Latinx, Asian, Middle Eastern, and Native American professional staff to enrich their professional skills and build connections with colleagues through professional development and mentorship opportunities. BC News Affiliates Program enters third decade Overview Purpose Apply Schedule Affiliates will receive a thorough orientation to various vice presidential areas, schools, and departments throughout the University. These experiences will be complemented by a mentor component. Affiliates will be matched with a member of senior leadership or an Affiliates Alumnus to study and observe leadership in action and gain heightened awareness of strategic issues affecting Boston College as a Jesuit, Catholic university. The Affiliates Program is designed to enable members of underrepresented groups to enrich their professional skills and build connections with colleagues throughout the University. This program was designed by Boston College’s Office of Affirmative Action (now the Office for Institutional Diversity), Office of AHANA Student Programs (now the BAIC), and the Irish Institute, and is administered by the Department of Human Resources/Office for Institutional Diversity (OID). Purpose The Boston College University Affiliates Program endeavors to better prepare AHANA staff to achieve their professional goals at the University. It is designed to: Offer employees, interested in careers in higher education, opportunities to broaden their professional experiences and deepen their knowledge about other areas of the University. Provide employees with the opportunity to strengthen their sense of community, increasing their institutional network through the program’s cohort model. Support the development of employees by facilitating mentoring relationships, offering a series of educational seminars and structuring networking opportunities. Monthly/bi-monthly seminars are offered and incorporate a range of active-learning techniques (case studies, presentations, and discussions) while addressing critical themes in higher education administration such as leadership and institutional change, strategic planning, institutional budgets, academic and student affairs, human resources, information technology, and communications strategies. Eligibility Eligibility criteria include, but are not limited to, a bachelor’s degree; a minimum of one year of professional (or equivalent) work experience at Boston College, and the support of the applicant’s University department. Application Process The deadline for applications for 2021-2022 is October 1, 2021. All applicants must submit electronically: A resume A one-page statement of interest (single-spaced, 500-word minimum) addressing the following: Why do you want to participate in the Affiliates Program? How will the program contribute to your professional development? What specifically are you hoping to learn or gain from participating in the Affiliates Program? One letter of recommendation from your direct supervisor (Director, Dean, or Vice President) acknowledging the program’s required time commitment. If your direct supervisor is not the dean, vice president, or director of your department, please ensure that they are copied on the letter. For more information contact: Jabril Robinson University Affiliates Program Office for Institutional Diversity 129 Lake Street Room 213 Brighton Campus 617-552-8730 jabril.robinson@bc.edu Schedule *All sessions, except the closing ceremony, will start at 8:30 a.m. and end at 2:30 p.m.* ** Schedule subject to change.** Item Date Orientation November 16, 2021 Session 1 December 07, 2021 Session 2 January 11, 2022 Session 3 February 08, 2022 Session 4 Feburary 22, 2022 Session 5 March 08, 2022 Session 6 March 22, 2022 Session 7 April 05, 2022 Session 8 May 03, 2022 Testimonials “I really appreciate 'the mentor/mentee' presentation. It really centered the importance of being thoughtful in your relationship with your mentor. It centered what it means to be a thoughtful mentee; it really means being intentional about how you connect.” Affiliates Program participant “I really appreciated hearing from senior leaders at our institution. I believe they had great insight on their career trajectory and were honest with us about the strengths and weaknesses of the institution. ” Affiliates Program participant “Excellent Affiliates session! I learned a wealth of information from each of the presenters and their distinctive roles. I also learned about their passion and dedication to their work.” Affiliates Program participant University Affiliates 2021-2022 academic year participants Lisa Brathwaite Director, Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs Law School Madeline Cortes Assistant Director, Undergraduate Career Advising Carroll School of Management (CSOM) Kenny Francis Learning Specialist/Academic Counselor Student Athlete-Academic Services Angela Kim Harkins Associate Professor School of Theology and Ministry (STM) Roatha Kong Associate Director, Student Organizations Office of Student Involvement Jian Lu Senior Animal Care Technician Animal Care Facility Diego Burbano Perez Student Services Associate Office of Student Services Gesnele Porcena Auxiliary Retail Systems Administrator Auxiliary Services Arun Sharma Systems and Reporting Manager Lynch School of Education and Human Development (LSEHD) Kirk Staine Administrative Assistant Office of Student Conduct Ileana Villalobos-Arcila Associate Director, Data Management University Advancement Back To Top Back To Top Office for Institutional Diversity 129 Lake Street, Room 211 Brighton Campus 617-552-2323 About Thrive @ BC Programs Policies & Compliance Events Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College