Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF LAW SCHOOL OF LAW LAW (HEALTH) Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 LAW H 501 Fundamentals of Health Law (4) Topics include: healthcare reform; obligations to provide care (including EMTALA); medical decision-making law; private health insurance and managed care (including ERISA, HIPAA, and COBRA); Medicare; Medicaid and SCHIP; regulation of healthcare providers; staff privileges and hospital-physician contracts; tax exemption; antitrust, and fraud and abuse laws. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 501 LAW H 502 Medical Malpractice (3-4) View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 502 LAW H 503 Medical Ethics and Jurisprudence (3-) Dudzinski, Kuszler Examines the relationship between bioethics and law. Reviews the basic concepts of both disciplines; their theoretical and practical connections. Analysis of principle legal cases and statutes illustrating such issues as informed consent to treatment, foregoing life support, research with human subjects, confidentiality, and allocation of health care resources. Offered: jointly with B H 535. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 503 LAW H 504 Legal, Ethical, and Social Issues in Public Health Genetics (3) Equips the student to anticipate and assess potential legal, ethical, and social barriers complicating the incursion of new genetic advances, information, and technologies into public and private healthcare delivery efforts. Prerequisite: GENOME 361, GENOME 371, or equivalent. Offered: jointly with B H 514/GCNSL 512/PHG 512; A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 504 LAW H 506 International Bioethics, Social Justice, and Health Seminar (1, max. 3) Rivin Explores case studies of ethical dilemmas in research and medical practice and violations of international human rights norms in the design, implementation, and evaluation of health programs and policies. Bioethics and human rights law are the foundational tools for critically evaluating global health impact. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with G H 517; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 506 LAW H 507 Law, Medicine, and Ethics in the Context of Pain Management (2) Reviews the problem of physicians failing to relieve pain of patients in the dying process and legal and ethical issues they face as well as cultural sources of the problem. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 507 LAW H 508 Beginning of Life: Rights and Choices (2) Addresses the controversial legal issues engendered by our increasing control over the beginning of life. Focuses on the law, regulation, and policy implications of contraception; new reproductive and genetic technologies, including surrogate parenthood, sperm and egg donation, in-vitro fertilization, and other methods of conquering infertility; and abortion. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 508 LAW H 509 End of Life: Rights and Choices (2) Address controversial legal issues engendered by our increasing control over the end of life. Focuses on patient autonomy issues at the end of life including withdrawal of life support, surrogate decision making, advance directives, and patient choice to hasten death with medical assistance (physician aid in dying). Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 509 LAW H 510 Topics in Law and Medicine ([1-4]-, max. 4) Seminar deals with controversial issues arising from interface and relationship between law and medicine. Focuses on role of government and oversight bodies in understanding and regulating access, use and misuse of medical treatments, and technology. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 510 LAW H 511 International Research Ethics, Law, and Policy (3) Kuszler, Rivin Exploration of legal requirements and ethical principles related to responsible conduct and research in a variety of different government structures, healthcare systems, and research environment. Compares and contrasts law and ethical standards applicable to research enterprises in developing countries, industrialized countries, and ethically distinct communities. Offered: jointly with B H 553; A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 511 LAW H 512 Public Health Law (2-4, max. 4) Focuses on the role of law in public health administration and in the increasingly regulated healthcare industry. Provides a foundation in the relevant law for public health officers and healthcare industry administrators. Offered: jointly with HSERV 551; A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 512 LAW H 513 Legal Issues in Emerging Healthcare Technologies (4) Covers legal issues related to the cutting edge ways to deliver healthcare, including telemedicine, healthcare robots, mobile medical apps, gene sequencing, nanotechnology and personalized medicine. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 513 LAW H 515 Global Health Law (3) Kuszler Provides an examination of the legal, economic, social, ethical, and political aspects of global health. Explores the emergence of global health law as a multilateral tool to address health disparities and improve the health of the vulnerable. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 515 LAW H 516 Study Abroad: Global Health, Human Rights, and the Rights of the Child in Cambodia (10) Study abroad exploring the theoretical underpinnings and practical aspects of the rights of the child in the context of Cambodia's health system, focusing on children with disabilities. Approaches the rights of the child from legal and health services perspectives, combining methodologies of research and analysis for practical application. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 516 LAW H 517 Legal Issues for Global Health Programs (2) J. Lane Examines the role of the law, legal strategy and legal research in supporting and advancing global health programs. Provides students an outline of the legal issues impacting global health programs and instruction on working with local counsel and research partners in foreign jurisdictions. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 517 LAW H 518 Legal and Policy Solutions to Improve Global Health of Women, Adolescents, and Children (1-2, max. 2) J. Lenga-Long, B. Shah, J. Sylker Explores specific examples of how legal and policy frameworks can impact health inequities for women, children, and adolescents. Teaches to formulate multi-disciplinary strategies to improve health outcomes. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 518 LAW H 520 Genetics and the Law (3) Explores legal issues arising from genetic and genomic research, practice and policy. Analyzes implications of constitutional, contract, tort, criminal, employment, insurance, intellectual property, and family law using multiple sources of law, including statutes, regulations, and cases. Offered: jointly with PHG 523; W. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 520 LAW H 521 Medicare and Medicaid Finance and Reimbursement (2-3) Gould, Williams Covers the history of Medicare and Medicaid, how they are administered, how eligibility is determined, payments are made, and financing is structured. Includes changes to both programs from the Affordable Care Act, how the federal government audits providers, and the available appeals. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 521 LAW H 522 Affordable Care Act Seminar: Legal and Policy Issues in Health Reform Implementation (2) K. Merrikin, S. Thieme Sanford Delves into the Affordable Care Act, including its historical context, key provisions, policy choices, legal challenges, implementation issues and future directions. As part of the seminar, which utilizes a multi-disciplinary approach, each student analyses an ACA provision of interest. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 522 LAW H 524 Forensic Evidence (3) Examines the application of the rules of evidence in cases that involve forensic evidence. Examines paradigmatic cases involving homicide and physical or sexual assault, although the principles examined are applicable generally in civil and criminal cases. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 524 LAW H 525 Business Transactions in Healthcare (3) Snyder Focuses on the complex business transactions involved in modern healthcare mergers. In addition to the transactional business aspects, the students also address government rules, regulations, and prohibitions that arise, Students in teams represent different sides of the transaction in this simulated experiential learning opportunity. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 525 LAW H 526 Healthcare Employment Law (3) Focuses on employment in health care settings, and will specifically cover "at will" employment and the development of implied and express individual employment contracts, recruiting and hiring, negotiated collective bargaining agreements, managing health care employees, and termination of employment. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 526 LAW H 528 Health Law Practicum (1-6, max. 6) Provides experience with an approved non-profit organization, judicial or legislative body, or governmental agency on issues related to health law or policy. Students work under the guidance of experienced practitioners. Both student and field supervisor provide the supervising law faculty member with a final written evaluation. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 528 LAW H 529 HIV and the Law: Legal and Political Developments of the AIDS Crisis (2-4, max. 4) Price Traces thirty years of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, beginning with the discovery of the disease through the present. Focuses on many of the socio-political-legal aspects of the HIV/IDS crisis, including discrimination, quarantine, immigration, criminal law, insurance, public heath, and family law issues. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 529 LAW H 530 Disability Law and Policy (3-4) Considers the definition of disability as defined by statute (ADA, FRA), case law, and social perception. Focuses on education law and entitlements, access to and discrimination in employment, housing, public transportation, and healthcare. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 530 LAW H 531 Health Law Advocacy (2-4, max. 4) Fox, Lenga-Long Explores select aspects of legal advocacy for vulnerable patients and surrogate decision-makers in healthcare settings. Focuses on practical, pragmatic solutions to complex health law advocacy issues, using both classroom participation and mock guardianship hearings. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 531 LAW H 534 Mental Health and the Law (3) Covers medical and legal definitional issues as well as major civil and criminal law issues, including standards and procedures for involuntary commitment; consent for, and informed refusal of, treatment; de-institutionalization/community-based treatment; the insanity defense; competency to stand trial; and punishment of the mentally ill convict. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 534 LAW H 536 Research Ethics and Regulation (3) Mastroianni Explores the ethical foundations, principles and concepts, and U.S. laws related to the conduct of research with human subjects. Required for graduate students in the Department of Bioethics and Humanities, School of Medicine. Offered: jointly with B H 536; W. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 536 LAW H 540 Health and Human Rights (3) Beth E. Rivin Examines the basic concepts in the fields of human rights law and public health, and uses those concepts to examine the interdependence and tensions between the two fields. Introduction to the fields of public health and human rights law, examining the impact of health policies and programs on human rights. Offered: jointly with G H 516; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 540 LAW H 545 FDA Law (3) Kuszler Surveys the scope of regulatory authority accorded to the FDA. Focuses on products used in medical care, notably pharmaceutical drugs, medical devices, and biologics. Considers food safety, regulation of cosmetics, and oversight of carcinogenic substances. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 545 LAW H 550 Medical Products Liability Law (3) Focuses on product liability claims arising from defective design/development, manufacture, marketing, and distribution of medical technologies. Considers the concepts of strict liability, negligence, breach of warrant, and informed consent as well as the relative roles of state and federal law. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 550 LAW H 579 Interactive Seminar (1, max. 30) Bruce S Weir Seminar series on topics related to public health genetics, including current bioethical, legal, medical, biotechnology, and public policy issues. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with PHG 580; AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 579 LAW H 580 Competition in Health Care (3) Examines the role competition and its opposite, regulation, play in the healthcare industry in the United States. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 580 LAW H 582 Healthcare Fraud and Abuse (2-3) Considers federal and state laws that impose criminal and civil penalties on healthcare providers for activities ranging from payment for referrals, submissions of false claims, misconduct in medical research, the illegal disclosure of patient information, and the abuse and neglect of patients in long term care settings. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 582 LAW H 590 Advanced Research and Writing Seminar in Health Law (2-, max. 4) Kuszler Dedicated research and writing seminar. Includes a substantial paper on a health law topic. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 590 LAW H 599 Health Law Tutorial (1-4, max. 4) Focuses on a specialized area of health law. Prerequisite: limited to students in the graduate program in health law; must be approved by the program director. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW H 599 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022