By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Services & Support In this Section Health and Wellness Counseling & Support Career Financial Literacy Technology Writing & Tutoring Safety & Security Services and Support Syracuse University staff and faculty strive to create safe, inclusive, and engaging environments that are responsive to the community's needs. From career counseling to safety practices, students and parents are encouraged to take advantage of the variety of programs and services we offer. We invite your questions and lend support in hopes that we may become a stronger university with every student who enters our campus. Career Services Link The professionals in Career Services are focused on helping you explore your options, build skills, make connections, and can assist you throughout your college career and well beyond. Health and Wellness Link The mission of the Barnes Center at The Arch health and wellness team is to provide quality integrated wellness services and programs, which support a holistic and inclusive student-centered experience promoting lifelong growth and development. Writing and Tutoring Link Take advantage of these academic resources, available to students, faculty, and staff, to make the most of your academic experience at Syracuse. Counseling and Support Services Our counseling team at the Barnes Center at The Arch offers you a strong support network of staff therapists who are dedicated to your well-being. Financial Literacy Let the Office of Financial Literacy be your guide. Access one-on-one coaching, learn essential skills, and attend an event to hone your money management strategy. Technology Syracuse University's Information Technology Services (ITS) professionals work with our schools, colleges, and administrative divisions to support students, faculty, and staff with technology resources. Fellowship and Scholarship Advising The Center for Fellowship & Scholarship Advising is here to identify scholarship and fellowship opportunities that are perfect for you, and assist you through every phase of the application process—whether you’re an undergraduate or graduate student, faculty member, or even an alum. Safety and Security The Department of Public Safety brings together a police force, Students for Community Safety, Fire and Life Services, and emergency management to ensure that the Syracuse Community is a safe place to live and learn. Transportation Syracuse University’s comprehensive and efficient shuttle service can take you to locations throughout campus, while safety escorts are available on-call for night-time activities (or any time you’d like added security). Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy