Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Membership » Terms & Conditions Set Navigation title in component Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Terms & Conditions Annual Memberships right arrow down arrow Memberships are non-transferrable and non-refundable unless cancelled within 3 days of purchase. Annual memberships paid via monthly draft will continue on a month-to-month basis after the first-year renewal date unless the membership is cancelled. To cancel a continuous membership, the member must complete the cancellation form by the 15th of the month prior to the desired cancellation date. Please refer to the cancellation policies for more details. Membership pricing is subject to change. Day Passes right arrow down arrow Day passes entitle non-members to access all facilities only on the day issued. Day passes are non-transferable and non-refundable. All day-pass guests must present their photo ID at the Member Services Desk and sign an Informed Consent Waiver before entering the facility. Membership Cards right arrow down arrow All Campus Recreation memberships allow access to both the Campus Recreation Center and the Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley. A valid member ID card must be presented at the Member Services Desk for admittance. Any ID that is presented by someone other than the rightful owner will be confiscated. UC student and employee members will use University of Cincinnati ID cards for entrance. All non-university ID holders will be issued Campus Recreation membership cards. Cards will be issued at the time of initial membership application. Staff reserves the right to request identification at any time. Campus Recreation is not responsible for lost, stolen, or damaged ID cards. There is a $10 fee for replacement cards. Account Renewal right arrow down arrow Annual memberships paid monthly by payroll deduction, credit card, or Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT) will continue unless the member notifies Member Services in writing by the 15th of the month prior to the cancellation month via the cancellation form Frozen Accounts right arrow down arrow Annual memberships may be maintained as inactive for a $5 monthly fee. Months paid at a $5 rate do not count toward the completion of an annual contract. Current membership rates will be applied to all reactivated memberships. Monthly deductions will continue unless Campus Recreation receives a freeze form by the 15th of the month prior to the desired frozen month (ex: submit form by Jan. 15 to not be charged for February). A Membership Freeze form must be completed. Transferring Accounts right arrow down arrow Memberships are non-transferable. Membership privileges are to be used only by the person to whom the membership was issued. Refunding right arrow down arrow A Campus Recreation membership is non-refundable unless cancelled within three (3) days of purchase. Cancellations right arrow down arrow The cancellation form is required for all annual memberships paid monthly. Cancellation during the initial one year contract will be permitted after payment of a $75 early cancellation fee. Cancellations after the initial one year contract will have no fee. A cancellation form must be completed. Monthly deductions will continue past the 12th month unless Campus Recreation is notified via the cancellation form by the 15th day of the month prior to the desired cancellation month. Suspensions and Terminations right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation (CR) has the right to suspend or terminate CR memberships for violations of CR policies or posted rules, failure to pay dues or student fees, or actions which violate any federal, state, or local laws. Additionally, all UC students must abide by the University of Cincinnati’s Student Code of Conduct. Consequences of violations may include suspension or termination of CR access privileges and referral to Judicial Affairs. Layoff Guarantee right arrow down arrow Annual monthly members who have been laid off may be eligible to waive two months of membership fees and still retain their membership. If after two months the member is still without a job and would like to cancel the membership, they can do so without penalty. Official documentation from Human Resources is required to take advantage of this opportunity, Campus Recreation must be notified before the next monthly payment is due; refunds will not be issued. As with all cancellations, Campus Recreation must be notified via the cancellation form or membership fees will be reinstated in the third month. Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top