Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home About Alumni Alumni Greetings from the Alumni Board President Hello Lamont Alumni and Friends! Welcome to the webpage of the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Alumni Association. It is currently under construction, so please forgive any untidiness as we enhance the content. On this page we plan to provide more in-depth information about Board activities and the ways in which alums can remain engaged with LDEO, as well as other information students and alums might find useful. The Alumni Board has been active this winter and spring. In January, we sponsored another career panel that was open to both Lamont graduate students and DEES undergrads. The panel included seven Lamont alumni representing industry and nonprofits and a variety of specialties. Over a lively hour of discussion, the panelists fielded questions from the students about useful career skills they gained in graduate school, how they went about hunting for jobs outside of academia, what a typical workday looks like, and when did they know they wished to leave academia, among others. The Alumni Board is planning on hosting another career panel in the fall, so stay tuned as we fix the next date and secure alumni panelists. The Alumni Board will continue to facilitate the Alumni Distinguished Lecture Series. We look to return to an in person Distinguished Lecture visit in the fall of 2022 to allow our alumni speaker to return to campus and interact with colleagues and students. Please contact me, or any other Board member, if you might be interested in participating in our next career panel, would like the opportunity to serve on the Alumni Board, or have any ideas for activities that would enhance the engagement of Lamont alums. Regards, Ellen S. Kappel (PhD 1985) Alumni Association Board of Directors Name Ellen Kappel, President Title President, Geosciences Professional Services Inc. Email [email protected] Name Rafael Almeida Title Assistant Professor, San Diego State University Email [email protected] Name Mike Coffin Title Member, MFCJr LLC, Australia Email [email protected] Name Kathleen Crane Title Arctic Environmental Consulting Email [email protected] Name E. Christa Farmer Title Geology, Environment, and Sustainability Professor at Hofstra University Email [email protected] Name Mia Leo Title Former Academic Department Administrator at LDEO Email [email protected] Name Greg Mountain Title Professor, Dept. of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Rutgers University Email [email protected] Name Philip Orton Title Assistant Research Professor at Stevens Institute of Technology Email [email protected] Name Neil Pederson Title The Harvard Forest, Harvard University Email [email protected] Name Michael Perfit Title Distinguished Professor at University of Florida Email [email protected] Name Kyla Simons Title Geologist at ExxonMobil Email [email protected] Expand all Collapse all Career Panels January 11, 2022 Panelist Rajib Mozumder Email [email protected] Panelist Chadwick Holmes Email [email protected] Panelist Yang Zha Email [email protected] Panelist Miriam Marlier Email [email protected] Panelist Emmi Yonekura Email [email protected] Panelist Zachary Tessler Email [email protected] April 8, 2021 Panelist Natalie Accardo Email [email protected] Panelist Claire Bendersky Email [email protected] Panelist Tianxia Jia Email [email protected] Panelist Alex Lloyd Email [email protected] Panelist Catherine Pomposi Email [email protected] Panelist Ivan Mihajlov Email [email protected] Panelist Yang Zha Email [email protected] Expand all Collapse all Annual Distinguished Alumni Program 2021, March 19: Susan E. Trumbore, PhD '89 Max Planck Institute for Biogeochemistry Colloquium talk title: "Radiocarbon constraints on the land carbon cycle". 2019, November 8: Lisa Tauxe, PhD '83 University of California, San Diego Colloquium talk title: "A re-assessment of the timing of the late Miocene C3-C4 vegetation transition across the Indian subcontinent and the globe.” 2018, September 28: Brenda Ekwurzel, PhD '98 Senior Climate Scientist and Director of Climate Science at the Union of Concerned Scientists Colloquium talk title: "Global surface temperature and sea level rise from emissions traced to major industrial carbon producers". 2017, March 30: Jeff Severinghaus, PhD '95 Professor, Geosciences Research Division at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California, San Diego. Colloquium talk title: “What have we learned about our future from ice core studies of the past?” 2016, March 31-April 1: Christina Ravelo, PhD '91 Professor of physical and biological sciences, University of California at Santa Cruz, Institute of Marine Sciences Research Interests: Stable isotope geochemistry, paleoceanography, paleoclimatology Colloquium talk title: "The Pliocene: Major features of a globally warm period". 2014, April 4: Peter Molnar, PhD '70 Professor of geological sciences at the University of Colorado Boulder Research interests: examines the processes in the Earth’s crust and mantle, and their influence on climate. Colloquium talk title: “Mantle dynamics, isostasy, and surface topography: What’s in a name? That which we call ‘dynamic topography’ by any other name (like isostasy) would stand as tall.” Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close