Menu Leadership Application Services Application Development Research Systems Web Hosting and Design Financial & Core Software Management Systems End User Services Collaboration Services Consulting Services Desktop Services Support Services Infrastructure Services Computing Databases Network Services Storage Services DART Newsletter Help & Reference Guides Overview LSP Tools Guide: How To Download Recordings from BlueJeans Need Help? Close mobile menu Close Menu DART (Formerly PMACS) Leadership Application Services Application Development Research Systems Web Hosting and Design Financial & Core Software Management Systems End User Services Collaboration Services Consulting Services Desktop Services Support Services Infrastructure Services Computing Databases Network Services Storage Services DART Newsletter Help & Reference Guides Overview LSP Tools Guide: How To Download Recordings from BlueJeans Need Help? Digital Academic Research Transformation (formerly PMACS) Major Projects Announcements The PennFlex Phone Migration project is underway! The University of Pennsylvania has selected Vonage as its next generation enterprise phone system. Vonage provides many advantages over Penn's previous VOIP provider, including the use of a mobile and software phone application that lets you take your number with you on the go. See the PSOM PennFlex Phone site for more information. Originally formed in 2012 as Penn Medicine Academic Computing Services (PMACS) to provide computing services for the Perelman School of Medicine’s departments, centers, and institutes, Digital Academic Research Transformation (DART) has grown and matured into a 140+ department of technology professionals providing a wide range of services including: Desktop Support Server Administration Storage Management Both High Performance Computing (HPC) and Limited Performance Computing (LPC) Software development Web design and development Database development Enterprise application development and support Consulting services that provide options to best support research initiatives DART is focused on delivering state of the art technology solutions in the most cost-conscious manner in support of the education, administrative and research needs of the Perelman School of Medicine. Latest News Tweets by pmacswebteam More News Contact Us DART Penn Medicine Philadelphia, PA 19104 Links of Interest Need DART assistance? Perelman School of Medicine University of Pennsylvania pennmedicine.org DART Web Team © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team. | Sitemap