COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Sociology, Minor MinorSociology All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Sociology A minor in sociology from Wichita State provides insight into society and social behavior through the study of social structures, relationships, groups, organizations and more. Sociological specialty areas at WSU include: social inequality and social problems, families and intimate relationships across the life course, medical sociology, urban life and globalization, and evidence-based practices. The minor is a good addition to many majors, including business and marketing, health sciences and pre-med, pre-law, criminal justice, political science, social work, psychology, communications, anthropology, history and others. Learn how sociology is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum To complete the minor, you'll take 15 credit hours of sociology courses, including the required introductory course, at least one course numbered 500 or above—and nine additional hours of electives based on your interests and career goals. View the curriculum Careers A sociology degree from Wichita State will connect you with opportunities for successful careers in a broad range of settings, from research, social services and business to education, policy and health care. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Sociology Health Science Women's Studies Criminal Justice Psychology Social Work 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©