Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Student Handbook Student Handbook: Tuition and Fees Tuition and Fees The following tuition charges are in effect for the 2022–2023 academic year (subject to change in future years). FULL-TIME STUDENTS: TUITION RATE Per Academic Year $54,768 Per Semester $27,384 PART-TIME STUDENTS: PER CREDIT TUITION RATE 1 credit $1,304 2 credits $2,608 4 credits $5,216 6 credits $7,824 8 credits $10,432 10 credits $13,040 12 credits $15,648 PART-TIME STUDENTS: FLAT TUITION RATE (4 Semester Plan) Per Semester $13,692 OTHER STUDENTS Advanced Doctoral Fee for doctoral students who have fulfilled the tuition requirements per semester $5,477 Active File Fee per semester $125 Facilities Fee per semester $250 Visiting Fellow per semester $500 OTHER FEES Harvard University Student Health Fee per year $1,304 Harvard University Student Health Insurance Plan $4,080 Document Fee per year $220* Student Activity Fee per year $75** *The document fee is a mandatory fee charged to students upon matriculation. The fee covers digital content created specifically for HGSE courses during the academic year, as well as the maintenance of the official HGSE transcripts and the production of enrollment verification letters issued to the student while active in the program. The document fee does not include processing fees paid to the official transcript vendor. ** The student activity fee funds officially recognized student organizations, student activities and community wide events available to all students. All Ed.M., C.A.S, Ed.L.D. Year 1, and Ed.L.D. Year 2 students will be automatically assessed the student activity fee. Students on leave of absence will not be assessed the fee. The fee may be waived by written request to the Director of Student Affairs Operations, by Friday, September 9, 2022; fee waiver requests are valid only for the academic year in which they are requested. Degree requirements stipulate that all Ed.M. and C.A.S. students are to be charged for at least 42 credits. Beginning in academic year 2022-23, both full-time and part-time students may take a maximum of 50 credits during their degree. There is no charge for audited courses. Full-time students are not assessed additional tuition for courses taken during June, July, August, or May. Part-time students paying by the credit will have any January or May courses added to their spring tuition bill; June and July courses would be added to the fall tuition bill. Part-time students on the flat tuition rate have January and May courses included in their spring tuition, and June and July courses are included in their fall tuition. After fulfilling the tuition requirements, Ed.M. and C.A.S. students who have not completed their required coursework will be charged the HGSE facilities fee for any semesters in which they are enrolled in courses needed to fulfill degree requirements. The tuition charged for any repeated courses may not be included in the budget for financial aid purposes. Any courses taken that are not being used to fulfill degree requirements will be assessed tuition at the current per-course rate. The Academic Calendar includes the schedule of tuition refunds for courses dropped or for cancellation of registration. This schedule also applies to students whose degree candidacy is terminated either by the student or by HGSE. The Harvard University Student Health Program (HUSHP) Student Health Fee is billed to all registered students. Students may waive the HUSHP Student Health Fee if they meet any of the following criteria: Enrolled half time or less (must also waive the Student Health Insurance Plan) Enrolled in Harvard University Group Health Plan (HUGHP) On active military duty and prohibited from receiving health care from any facility other than Hanscom Air Force Base (requires an attestation form) Massachusetts law requires that all full-time and part-time students enrolled in an institution of higher learning in Massachusetts participate in a qualifying student health insurance program or in a health plan with comparable coverage. Students enrolled in a comparable health insurance plan may be eligible to waive the Student Health Insurance Plan. Waivers must be completed by the appropriate deadline or the charges will remain on the student’s term bill. For more information on waiving, visit the Student Health Insurance website. Important: Online part-time Ed.M. students must have health insurance that covers urgent and emergency care when visiting Harvard University for in-person activity, e.g., 5-day pre-program residency. Online Ed.M. students are NOT eligible to enroll in Harvard University’s Health Programs. Tuition Requirements for Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Full-time tuition is assessed in Years 1 and 2, reduced tuition (50% of full rate) is assessed in Year 3, and an advanced doctoral fee (10% of full rate) is assessed each semester until completion of the degree. Ed.D. students paying the Advanced Doctoral Fee ($5,477) each semester are entitled to all the privileges of registered HGSE students. Additional courses may be taken at no additional cost. Tuition covers courses that enable a student to qualify for the Ed.D. degree. Tuition Requirements for Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D) All Ed.L.D. students (including those previously in the Ed.M. or C.A.S. programs) are subject to the following tuition requirements: First Two Years of Registration Full Tuition Third Year of Registration Half Tuition Registration Beyond Year Three Facilities fee Students enrolled in the Ed.L.D. Program beyond the stated program duration limit (three years/six semesters) will be assessed a Facilities Fee ($250) each semester. Tuition Requirements for Master of Education (Ed.M.) and Certificate of Advanced Study (C.A.S.) Master’s and Certificate of Advanced Study students must pay one year of full tuition. Courses taken at Harvard Summer School (the Division of Continuing Education) and accepted for academic credit do not reduce tuition requirements. Students enrolled half-time must pay tuition at the half-rate for two years (four semesters). After fulfilling the tuition requirement, Ed.M. and C.A.S. students who have not completed their required coursework will be charged the HGSE facilities fee for any semesters in which they are enrolled in courses needed to fulfill degree requirements. Any courses taken that are not being used to fulfill degree requirements will be assessed tuition at the current per-course tuition rate. For additional information, please contact the HGSE Office of the Registrar. Tuition Requirements for Ed.D. and Ed.L.D. Students Graduating in November and March Doctoral students who graduate in November 2022 or March 2023 are subject to the following deadlines affecting tuition and health insurance charges: November 2022 Doctoral Candidates Deadlines that Affect Fall 2022 Tuition and Health Insurance Charges Ed.D.: Date by which student submits dissertation PDF to Programs Office and Electronic Dissertation Submission site* Ed.L.D.: Date by which student completes third-year residency AND submits an approved Capstone Sept. 15 – Oct. 18, 2022* Must register for fall semester? Yes Charged fall tuition? Yes, but tuition charges will be reversed. Covered by fall Harvard University Student Health Insurance? Yes. Will be charged for the period Aug. 1, 2022 - Jan. 31, 2023 (unless waiver is approved). Last Date of Attendance Oct. 18, 2022 *In order to receive a November 2022 degree, the Ed.D. Program Office must receive all reader approvals no later than Friday, October 14, 2022, 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time. March 2023 Doctoral Candidates Deadlines that affect Spring 2023 Tuition and Health Insurance Charges Ed.D.: Date by which student submits dissertation PDF to Programs Office and Electronic Dissertation Submission site** Ed.L.D.: Date by which student completes third-year residency AND submits an approved Capstone Feb. 14, 2023 Must register for spring semester? Yes Charged spring tuition? Yes, but tuition charges will be reversed. Covered by spring Harvard University Student Health Insurance? No. If already charged for spring insurance, it will be retroactively canceled back to Jan. 31, 2023 and students will be charged for any medical costs incurred on or after Feb. 1, 2023. Last Date of Attendance Feb. 14, 2023 ** In order to receive a March 2023 degree, the Ed.D. Program Office must receive all reader approvals no later than Friday, February 10, 2023, 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time. Students must be registered in the spring semester and pay spring tuition in order to be eligible for a May 2023 degree. Schedule of Tuition Payments Current tuition is due in advance of each semester for which the student registers. Before being allowed to register, a student is expected to pay the semester’s tuition in full by the stated deadline, unless they are on the Monthly Payment Plan. The Monthly Payment Plan, which carries a service charge per semester, is available to all students through the University Student Billing Office. A student who is on the Monthly Payment Plan is expected to pay any outstanding previous balance in full and at least one-quarter of the current semester’s bill. Students who fail to make timely monthly payments may not be allowed this option in the future. No student will be permitted to register in any term until all money due from prior term bills is paid in full. Financial Aid in one academic year may not be used to cover a balance due from a prior year. In accordance with the Veterans Benefits and Transition Act of 2018, HGSE will not: impose a late fee, prevent a student from attending classes, or demand payment for funds expected to be covered by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) until 90 days after the beginning of the term. Students are responsible for all charges posted to their student accounts beyond the amount of tuition and fee payment from the VA. HGSE may require students to provide documentation to ensure that they are entitled to GI Bill benefits. Students at Harvard University are billed electronically. In lieu of a monthly paper bill, students are sent, via monthly emails, web links that will enable them to view their student bills online as well as to make payments electronically. Payments may be made either electronically or by check. Credit card payments are not accepted. Students who need a paper copy of their bill may print a PDF copy. If an e-payment or check is returned by the bank, the student’s account will be charged a $25 returned check fee. Multiple returned payments may result in the University requiring future payments to be made by certified or bank check. Please note that it can take a week or more before a bank notifies the University that a payment has been returned. Student accounts will not reflect a returned payment until information is received from the bank. Students should be aware that diplomas will be withheld until all indebtedness to the University is paid in full. In addition, the School may withhold some services to students or former students with outstanding debts to the University. In this section Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Student Handbook Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice