Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Welcome Our Faculty With over 160 academic physicians, we have one of the largest and most well-rounded academic departments in the country, representing a wide range of subspecialties. Read more... Where We Practice We care for over 250,000 patients annually at Rhode Island Hospital’s Anderson Emergency Center, Hasbro Children’s Hospital Emergency Department, and The Miriam Hospital Emergency Department. Read more... Education Since 1992, the Residency Program in Emergency Medicine has trained leaders in emergency medicine with unsurpassed clinical training and an innovative curriculum. Read more... Research We have a diverse research enterprise with two basic science laboratories, four research faculty PhDs, and a full infrastructure that supports a broad range of clinical research. Read more... Where We Live We are located in the historic city of Providence, Rhode Island-- home to a thriving arts community and ranked by Travel and Leisure magazine as the number one city in the country for dining. Read more... Home Welcome to the web home of the Department of Emergency Medicine at the Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Our mission is to provide exceptional emergency medical care, education, research, and service to the people of Rhode Island and beyond. Home About Us Emergency Medicine Faculty Members Diversity and Inclusion DARE EM - Discussing Anti-Racism & Equity in Emergency Medicine Clinical Sites Education Divisions Programs Research Pediatric Emergency Medicine Print this Page Share this Page Mailing Address: Brown University Dept. of Emergency Medicine 55 Claverick Street, Suite 100 Providence, RI 02903 Physical Address: Brown University Dept. of Emergency Medicine Administration 55 Claverick St., Suite 100 Providence, RI 02903 Phone (401) 444-5826 The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift Quick Links Brown Emergency Medicine (Brown EM) Lifespan