Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Fraternity & Sorority Life Greek Life right arrow down arrow About Us right arrow down arrow Staff Our Community right arrow down arrow Councils right arrow down arrow College Panhellenic Council (CPC) Interfraternity Council (IFC) Multicultural Greek Council (MGC) National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) Fraternities Sororities Greek Engagement Board Greek Honorary Organizations Parents Policies & Resources right arrow down arrow Academic Reports Alumni & Advisors Expansion Policy New Member Education Policy Office Policies Home » Campus Life » Fraternity & Sorority Life Fraternity & Sorority Life In 1840, the first fraternity at the University of Cincinnati was founded. Since then, the fraternity and sorority community at UC includes more than 3,200 students at our Uptown, Clermont, Blue Ash, and Medical campuses. Our community currently consists of 45 chapters: 10 College Panhellenic Council (CPC) chapters + 1 associate chapter, 25 Interfraternity Council (IFC) chapters, 4 Multicultural Greek Council (MGC) chapters, and 7 National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) chapters. Members from each of these four councils make up the programming body for our community, the Greek Engagement Board. How to Join Registration for College Panhellenic Council Sorority Recruitment is OPEN! This Fall, Recruitment will take place in August during Welcome Week. Please see a breakdown of required dates below: PNM Convocation: Monday, August 15 Open House: Tuesday, August 16 Philanthropy: Wednesday, August 17 Sisterhood: Thursday, August 18 Preference/Bid Day: Saturday, August 20 Registration ($55) for this process is required and will close on Friday, August 12. Worried about the fees? Apply for a Fee Waiver BEFORE registering for Recruitment! Be sure to contact our VP Recruitment, Abbie Heck, with any questions or concerns. Registration for Interfraternity Council Recruitment is OPEN! Registering for recruitment is the first step to getting to know our 25 IFC Chapters. Be sure to follow @cincyIFC on Instagram to stay up to date with our chapters and events. Mark your calendars for these events. FSL Festival: Saturday, August 20th IFC Showcase Week: Friday, September 2nd-Saturday, September 10th Please contact our VP Recruitment, Wesley Dosch, with any questions. Interested in MGC? Fill out this interest form to get connected to our chapters. Be sure to follow @cincyMGC on Instagram to stay up to date with our chapters and council events. MGC Meet the Greeks: Wednesday, August 24th Interested in NPHC? Fill out this interest form to get connected to our chapters. Be sure to follow @uc_nphc on Instagram to stay up to date with our chapters and council events. NPHC Declassified: Wednesday, August 24th Directions Directions to the Office of Fraternity & Sorority Life: The accessible entrance is on the south side of Stratford Pavilion (2634 Stratford Avenue Building 16 Cincinnati, OH 45221). Upon entering the Pavilion, take the staircase to the bottom floor and you will see a sign for the Office of Fraternity & Sorority Life on your left! Give us a call at 513-556-1155 if help is needed to find our space! Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. University of Cincinnati Stratford Heights Building 16, Suite 001 513-556-1155 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Stratford Heights Building 16, Suite 001 513-556-1155 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top