Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries English Language Teaching Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs English Language Teaching Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info English Language Teaching Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Our Faculty Undergraduate Certificate in English Language Teaching Develop a foundational understanding of the cultural, political and social complexities of language education, learning and use, and the skills to draw on this awareness in a broad range of international and professional teaching contexts with the English Language Teaching Undergraduate Certificate in Temple’s College of Education and Human Development. Through firsthand, practical experience, this 12-credit undergraduate certificate prepares students to knowledgeably and creatively assess, deliver and plan meaningful language learning experiences, beyond the K–12 classroom. Other core tenets of the program include ethical, political, socio-cultural factors impacting English language teaching in international and domestic contexts; language use in relation to individual and group identity; principles of curriculum design and teacher-based authentic assessments; structure and systems of language and intersection of culture, language and perception; and task-based and content-focused language lessons. The certificate provides the necessary minimum qualifications required by many of the world’s language schools and domestic community organizations. Earning the certificate also enhances students' applications for fellowships and builds practical, transferable skills that students can apply to a variety of professional and volunteer opportunities. The program is recommended for any current Temple student interested in working domestically or internationally with linguistically diverse communities. Students pursuing majors such as communication, community education, public health or social services may benefit from increased awareness of their own cultural practices and ways to draw on that awareness in their interactions with people in cross-cultural educational and social services contexts. Delivery Method All courses are offered in hybrid format, with classes both in-person at Temple University’s Main Campus and online. Classes & Curriculum You must complete 12 credit hours (four courses) to earn the certificate. Topics covered in the curriculum include discourse practices in diverse communities and language as a social form, including the connections between language, culture, perception and linguistic globalization. See a full list of English Language Teaching Certificate courses. Related Graduate Degrees Accomplished Teaching MSEd Advocacy and Organizational Development MEd Education PhD Educational Leadership and Policy MEd with a concentration in Urban Education Higher Education MEd Middle Grades Education MEd School Psychology EdS Secondary Education MEd Special Education MEd Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) MSEd Related Graduate Certificates College Access & Success Disability Studies Diversity Leadership English Language Teaching English as a Second Language (non-degree Certification) Instructional Learning Technology Teaching in Higher Education Urban Education Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors A faculty program coordinator provides academic support and helps students navigate the certificate program. Program Contact Elvis Wagner, associate professor of teaching and learning, is the faculty program coordinator for the English Language Teaching Certificate (Undergraduate). Phone: 215-204-5821 Email: elvis.wagner@temple.edu Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-ELTC-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in English Language Teaching Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Our Faculty Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info