Skip to main content Main navigation Mobile Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Main navigation Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Moldova President Maia Sandu, an HKS alumna, to deliver 2022 graduation address You are here Home News Moldova President Maia Sandu, an HKS alumna, to deliver 2022 graduation address March 29, 2022 Maia Sandu MC/MPA 2010, who waged a decade-long anti-corruption campaign that led to her becoming the president of Moldova, will deliver the 2022 graduation address at Harvard Kennedy School, Dean Douglas Elmendorf announced today. President Sandu is the first woman to lead her country. After earning her Mid-career Master in Public Administration degree at the Kennedy School in 2010, Sandu joined the World Bank in Washington as a senior adviser. But just two years later, she chose to go home to Moldova and use her skills to repair a corrupt political system that she said was destroying the small former Soviet republic sandwiched between Ukraine and Romania. She joined the Moldova cabinet as education minister from 2012 to 2015, established a pro-European political party, and became prime minister briefly in 2019. She described her top priority as “making people believe again in their country.” Sandu confronted billionaire oligarchs and socialist advocates who had vied for control of the government coffers; she was ousted after just five months in office. But she vowed to continue the fight to turn Moldova into a modern democracy – and won a landslide victory to become president in December 2020. “Maia Sandu has set an impressive example for Harvard Kennedy School students of what it means to be a principled and effective public leader and public servant,” said Elmendorf, the Don K. Price Professor of Public Policy. “Her decision to return home and enter the political fray, and her determination to challenge vested interests so she could reduce corruption and create new opportunities for Moldovans, offer important models for this year’s graduating class. We are so pleased that she accepted our invitation earlier this year to give our graduation address, and we look forward to her being able to come.” Sandu studied management at the Academy of Economic Studies of Moldova and earned a master’s degree in international relations at the Academy of Public Administration. She worked in the World Bank office in the capital, Chisinau, and in government and consulting roles before coming to study at the Kennedy School. She speaks Russian and English as well as her native Romanian. The graduation address will be part of this year’s in-person graduation ceremony on Wednesday, May 25 at the Kennedy School after two years of virtual ceremonies because of the pandemic. The events will be livestreamed on the School’s website at www.hks.harvard.edu/commencement. More from HKS A Reformer, Interrupted 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1100 Ask What You Can Do Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Admissions Events Give Now Alumni Jobs Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/harvardkennedyschool/ https://twitter.com/kennedy_school https://www.linkedin.com/school/harvard-kennedy-school-of-government/ https://www.youtube.com/user/HarvardKennedySchool http://instagram.com/harvardkennedyschool/