Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » Current UHP Students » Honors Experiences » Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program » Frequently Asked Questions Set Navigation title in component UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences Honors Seminars Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved UHP Ambassadors Meet the Team Madalyn O'Dea Somya Sharma Zakaria Bodiford Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP Welcome Experience Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Frequently Asked Questions General FAQs I have never researched before. Will this hurt my chances of matching with a mentor? right arrow down arrow No, it will not hurt your chances. RaMP is specifically geared toward first and second year students with little or no research experience. The majority of students applying will have no prior research experience. While you may not have research experience, it is likely that you have participated in activities or involvement that has helped you develop skills that will be useful in a lab setting, so be sure to think through those possible connections as you are crafting your resume and cover letter. How many projects can I apply to? right arrow down arrow You may apply to a maximum of five projects this year. The only circumstance in which you will be permitted to apply to greater than five projects is if you do not match with any of your choices. At this time, you would be permitted to apply to projects that are still accepting applications. I'm unable to attend the Mentor Meet and Greet. Can I still apply? Can I watch them online? right arrow down arrow Yes, you may still apply. The presentations allow mentors to describe their project in more detail, especially with regard to how the student researcher would be involved. Visit the RaMP Project Descriptions page in the navigation to gain an idea of each project's focus. The presentations are not recorded. Will it hurt my chances of matching if I wait until the end of the application window to apply? right arrow down arrow We recommend applying earlier in the application window rather than later. The application opens on October 22 at 6:15p EST and closes on Sunday, October 31 at 11:59p EST. You could be at a disadvantage if you wait until the last minute to apply, since many mentors will begin interviewing interested students soon after they receive applications. Can I receive academic credit for my research? right arrow down arrow UHP students accepted to RaMP complete RaMP as a pre-approved honors experience. This honors experience counts towards the 5 honors experiences required to graduate from the UHP. In this, students are completing an academic experience through RaMP. Students can sometimes register for course credit for research if offered by their academic department. The course a student registers for may be called “Undergraduate Research”, “Independent Study”, or something similar. The course will not be an “open enrollment” course, but rather a “permission only” course where the department’s Undergraduate Director and/or the student’s Research Supervisor clear the student to register the credits. Students should check their departmental website for information specific to their degree program. Cover Letter and Resume-Specific FAQs How long should my cover letter be? right arrow down arrow The cover letter should be no more than one page, single-spaced. How long should my resume be? right arrow down arrow Please do your best to keep your resume to one page (front only). How do I apply for research with no research experience? right arrow down arrow Focus on any science-related experiences you have had! Your science content could include: Shadowing or an Internship Related Classes Lab or Computer Skills Science Competitions in High School/College Science Related Clubs How should I format my resume? right arrow down arrow It can look like a normal business resume! Just make sure any science-related experiences are near the top and any other work experience/activities are near the bottom. Should I add my classes to my resume? right arrow down arrow You can absolutely add RELEVANT classes under “Relevant Course Work” in the Education section. If you have classes that specifically relate to the lab, add them here. We do NOT suggest including your classes as bullet points or individual experiences. We only suggest doing this if you cannot fill your resume or if you completed a specific project related to the lab’s research. Can I leave my work experience on my resume even though it isn’t science-related? right arrow down arrow Yes! You should definitely keep your work experience on here. Having science-related work is great, but not having it is perfectly fine as well. You can still showcase transferable skills that would make you an exceptional fit for the lab. Here are some ideas: Written/Oral Communication Collaboration/Teamwork Quick Thinking/Creativity Persistence/Diligence Interview FAQs What will I be asked in my interview? right arrow down arrow This ranges based on who is interviewing you. Here are some of the more common questions: Tell me about yourself. Why did you choose this lab? What times/days are you available for research? Are you familiar with the machines we use in lab? Do you have research experience? What would you like to accomplish by the end of this experience? How should I prepare for the interview? right arrow down arrow Engage in your research about the lab Reflect on what is important to you Dress in between business casual and business professional Leave extra time for travel so you can arrive early (whether in-person or virtual) Prepare some questions that you might ask What research should I do on the lab? right arrow down arrow Start by re-reading the RaMP project description. Remind yourself what the lab is researching and why you want to be there. Read publications from the lab, if possible, to get an idea what their work entails. Try to figure out what your role would be in the lab and what tasks are expected of you. As I prepare for an interview, on what should I reflect? right arrow down arrow Decide how long you would want to do research (One semester? Over the summer? Till you graduate?). Think about what interests you about this lab and why you want to be there. Is it a personal connection? Is it an interest in the topic or machines? How much time should I leave for travelling to the interview? right arrow down arrow No matter whether you plan on walking or driving to your interview, leave early (we suggest 15-20 minutes early). Children’s Hospital is tricky to navigate if you don’t do it often. Feel free to ask the front desks for directions to your specific interview setting. What questions should I prepare? right arrow down arrow Think about what is important to you and ask a question about that. You could ask questions around: Their research topic or machines/lab techniques they use. The time commitment they require. What the work environment is like: this is important to make sure the lab is a place where you would like to work. If they would allow you to stay in the lab over summer and/or fall, to research longer. When you will hear back from them about the position. University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top