Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Play video: Play Video: Water animation Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Water, drought and flooding Molly Sharlach, Office of Engineering Communications Aug. 6, 2020, 10 a.m. Satellite photo of the Lena Delta Reserve in Russia by USGS EROS Data Center Satellite Systems Branch, courtesy of NASA Animation by Matilda Luk, Office of Communications Princeton’s vital research across the spectrum of environmental issues is today and will continue to be pivotal to solving some of humanity’s toughest problems. Our impact is built on a long, deep, broad legacy of personal commitment, intellectual leadership, perseverance and innovation. This article is part of a series to present the sweep of Princeton’s environmental excellence over the past half-century. Water is the most elemental ingredient of life; its regular availability is essential to our economies and to civilization itself. Yet billions of people yearly confront water-related stress, including devastating droughts, destructive flooding and toxic contamination. Ignacio Rodriguez-Iturbe has dedicated his career to understanding this critical resource so humanity can better manage it, and in his view, there is a remarkably capable teacher in our midst: plants. Ignacio Rodriguez-Iturbe Photo by Laura Pedrick “They don’t know when the rain will arrive, and they don’t know how much rain will come,” he said. Yet plants are attuned to their environment and work within the ecosystem to make the most of what water there is. “That’s the life of plants, and they survive.” Rodriguez-Iturbe, the James S. McDonnell Distinguished University Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Emeritus, is among the founders of ecohydrology, a discipline that examines the roles of landscapes, plants and soil in the water cycle. A professor at Princeton for 17 years, in 2002 Rodriguez-Iturbe won the Stockholm Water Prize, known informally as the “Nobel Prize of water.” He is one of several Princeton faculty members who have tackled critical environmental problems involving water. Their tools and discoveries contribute to cleaning up watersheds and inform policies to plan for water scarcity and flooding around the globe. Conservation, agriculture and public health To understand how water moves through living systems, Rodriguez-Iturbe and his colleagues in engineering, geosciences and ecology and evolutionary biology developed mathematical approaches integrating rainfall data with information on geological features, soil moisture and vegetation. Simon Levin Photo by Brian Wilson, Office of Communications Rodriguez-Iturbe, now at Texas A&M University, continues to collaborate with Simon Levin, Princeton’s James S. McDonnell Distinguished University Professor in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. In 2019, they published an analysis of tree cluster patterns in African savannas, which have been challenging to explain in mathematical terms. The study explained the tree clusters’ dependence on local soil moisture and developed a model to help conservation efforts that accounts for impacts of fires and wildlife on trees. The work, combining water dynamics and ecology, is a good example of Princeton’s approach, which begins with a wide view and narrows to detailed solutions. “The beauty of the work that’s been done here in ecohydrology is that it takes the random nature of rainfall and integrates it into a model where you can actually find solutions in a way that is absolutely elegant in terms of its mathematics, and still is driven by really practical questions,” said Michael Celia, the Theodora Shelton Pitney Professor of Environmental Studies and director of the Princeton Environmental Institute who has also collaborated with Rodriguez-Iturbe. Amilcare Porporato Photo by Isometric Studio Another collaborator, Amilcare Porporato, worked with Rodriguez-Iturbe as a visiting scholar at Princeton from 1999 to 2001 and is now the Thomas J. Wu '94 Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering. In work supported by Princeton’s Carbon Mitigation Initiative, Porporato works with colleagues in engineering and geosciences to investigate how plants and soils sequester carbon. In addition to improving soil carbon information in climate models, their results could guide agricultural and conservation strategies to help curb climate change. He also develops predictive frameworks that integrate rainfall fluctuations with agricultural outputs and patterns of disease, including a collaborative study on dengue fever outbreaks supported by the Princeton Environmental Institute’s Climate Change and Infectious Disease initiative. Other Princeton leaders in the field include Peter Jaffé — the William L. Knapp ’47 Professor of Civil Engineering, who has developed methods for cleaning intractable pollutants from groundwater and wetlands — and professor emeritus Eric Wood. Wood pioneered computational models to track the impacts of climate change on drought and flood patterns, which earned him the 2017 Robert E. Horton Medal for outstanding contributions to hydrology from the American Geophysical Union. Mapping drought risks Peter Jaffé Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Enabling reliable, sustainable agriculture under water scarcity has long been a priority for Wood, who joined Princeton’s faculty in 1976 and is now the Susan Dod Brown Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Emeritus. He helped establish the use of satellite data in hydrology and improved the representation of the water cycle in climate models, including the energy implications of water interacting with different land types. “The work that Eric pioneered is called the assimilation approach, which is basically bringing many streams of useful but independent data together in a consistent fashion. Once you have that, then you can start to understand how the water cycle varies, you can do prediction of droughts and floods, you can look at future climate impacts,” said Justin Sheffield, who has worked closely with Wood for two decades, first as a research scholar at Princeton and now as a professor at the University of Southampton in the U.K. Eric Wood Photo by David Kelly Crow In 2008, Wood, Sheffield and colleagues launched the African Flood and Drought Monitor, developed with support from the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). Since much of sub-Saharan Africa’s farming depends on rain, drought forecasts can provide critical information for farmers and policymakers. The monitor complements ground-based information with satellite data and hydrological modeling, and uses state-of-the-art prediction tools to generate seasonal forecasts. Resilience to future floods Better data sets and predictive tools have also deepened understanding of extreme storms and flooding, a major focus for James Smith, the William and Edna Macaleer Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, and Ning Lin, associate professor of civil and environmental engineering. Smith, who joined Princeton in 1990, helped establish a radar network that has since become a principal tool for U.S. weather forecasting and measuring rainfall. Thanks to this groundwork, Smith was well-positioned for a watershed study on a catastrophic flood along the Rapidan River in Virginia’s Blue Ridge Mountains, following a storm that dumped more than 25 inches of rain in 6 hours on June 27, 1995. James Smith Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy Such extreme events, the study showed, reveal the limits of the theory that forests can prevent flooding. Smith’s group has since extended this research to examine how complex terrain can create hot spots of extreme rainfall — including the influences of urban infrastructure on local climate, rainfall and flooding. In collaboration with Smith and other colleagues, Ning Lin’s work aims to make coastal communities more resilient to storms and flooding. “Our research combines the state of the science — our current understanding of hurricanes, the climate system, infrastructure systems and the coastal environment — to project the impact of climate change on hurricanes and risks to coastal areas,” said Lin. “Then we link that to the development of mitigation strategies, both in engineering and in policy and economic perspectives.” In 2019, Lin and colleagues published detailed projections of hurricane flood hazards for counties along the U.S. Atlantic and Gulf coasts at the end of this century, showing that current 100-year floods will likely occur every 30 years. This type of high-resolution risk mapping is critical to making informed policies, said Lin. Ning Lin Photo by David Kelly Crow Lin is one of several Princeton researchers involved in Structures of Coastal Resilience, a project that combines flood predictions with infrastructure improvements such as storm surge barriers that double as parks. Along with Guy Nordenson, professor of architecture and affiliated member of the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, and Michael Oppenheimer, the Albert G. Milbank Professor of Geosciences and International Affairs and the Princeton Environmental Institute, Lin has also served on the New York City Panel on Climate Change. The panel is working to make New York a leader in advancing flexible solutions to coastal protection based on scientific projections of future hazards. In the field of ecohydrology, Rodriguez-Iturbe is also looking to coastal areas as a new frontier — he’s interested in the complex dynamics of waves, dunes and vegetation. “Coastal ecosystems are extremely important for humankind now and in the future, and we need to know more about the core science of how these ecosystems respond under different conditions,” he said. Princeton: A half-century at the environmental forefront View All News Net-Zero America: How state policymakers can use data from Princeton's pioneering study to meet climate goals Research: Read more Environmental research at Princeton is addressing the world's challenges Research: Read more The future of food in a changing climate Research: Read more Tough, timely and team-driven: 50 years of energy research Research: Read more From muddy boots to mathematics: Advancing the science of ecosystems and biodiversity Research: Read more Climate modeling at Princeton Research: Read more Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice