Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving The President’s Circle Give to the UW Menu Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Home Give to the UW The President's Circle What happens when like-minded people unite to make dreams come true for others? Inspiration blooms. Talents develop. Lives change. Nearly five decades ago, a small group of people with a common goal joined together in a commitment to support the University of Washington. Today, our circle has expanded to more than 13,000 strong and is known as The President’s Circle. This impactful community is made up of a diverse mix of faculty, alumni, retirees, friends and fans. No matter how you personally support the UW, we welcome you to The President’s Circle as an expression of our gratitude for giving a total of $2,000 or more annually. “The wonderful generosity of The President’s Circle actively strengthens our University of Washington. Thank you!” Ana Mari Cauce President Recognition levels Whether you are considering donating through the UW for the first time or are already giving at the Gold, Purple or Silver level, we are grateful for your partnership. As part of The President’s Circle, you share a special place of distinction in shaping the UW community through your boundless generosity. We invite you to explore our many giving opportunities: Young President’s Circle $500+ Age 35 and younger Invitations to Young President’s Circle events Invitation to the annual President’s Circle Reception in Sylvan Grove with President Cauce Recognition in the annual report to contributors Complimentary annual membership to the UW Alumni Association President’s Circle Silver: $2,000-$4,999 Invitation to the annual President’s Circle Reception in Sylvan Grove with President Cauce Recognition in the annual report to contributors Complimentary annual membership to the UW Alumni Association President’s Circle Purple: $5,000-$9,999 Special access to University leadership via special invitations and communications throughout the year Invitation to the annual President’s Circle Reception in Sylvan Grove with President Cauce Recognition in the annual report to contributors Complimentary annual membership to the UW Alumni Association President’s Circle Gold: $10,000 and above Invitation to the Annual Recognition Gala Concierge services from The President’s Circle office Special access to University leadership via special invitations and communications throughout the year Invitation to the annual President’s Circle Reception in Sylvan Grove with President Cauce Recognition in the annual report to contributors Complimentary annual membership to the UW Alumni Association All levels of The President’s Circle receive complimentary annual membership to the UW Alumni Association. UWAA membership keeps you connected to the UW campus and community with unique experiences and carefully selected benefits, including early registration for campus lectures, borrowing privileges at the UW Libraries and more. Details at UWalum.com/membership Get in touch Christine Lessard Director of The President’s Circle 206-221-5142 | prescirc@uw.edu Join us Give now University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA