Skip to main content ISU Index Menu ISU News Store Contact Us Offices Our Story Main menu Main Menu Home Annual Report More Stories Quick Facts You are here Home Quick Facts Iowa State University Extension and Outreach engages Iowans to build a #STRONGIOWA. ISU Extension and Outreach serves all Iowans. We are educators, researchers, volunteers, and partners in Ames and throughout the state. We are Iowa’s 99 county campus and we are here for you. We engage all Iowans in research, education, and extension experiences to address current and emerging real-life challenges. We are taking steps to build a strong Iowa. Initiatives for Iowans ISU Extension and Outreach has prioritized these six initiatives and is focusing additional effort and resources to help Iowans and their communities move forward in every county. Learn about efforts in your county. Reviving the Iowa economy, including the farm economy Supporting Iowans in improving financial security Engaging Iowans in improving food supply, safety, and access Expanding educational opportunities for youth Engaging Iowans in addressing mental health Supporting efforts to increase access to quality child care Learn more See our 2021 ISU Extension and Outreach Annual Report. Learn about our programs in Agriculture and Natural Resources, Community and Economic Development, Human Sciences, and 4-H Youth Development. Call our hotlines or visit our 100 ISU Extension and Outreach county offices across the state. Contact your county extension council; 900 locally elected council members serve Iowa. Join more than 7,600 volunteers who partner with us. February 2022 Additional Annual Reports 2020 Iowa State University Extension and Outreach Annual Report 2019 Iowa State University Extension and Outreach Annual Report 2018 Iowa State University Extension and Outreach Annual Report 2017 Iowa State University Extension and Outreach Annual Report 2016 Iowa State University Extension and Outreach Annual Report Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. 2150 Beardshear Hall, Ames, IA 50011-2031 (800) 262-3804 Iowa State University | Policies State & National Extension Partners Site Index | Site Map About Us Contact Us County Offices Give to Extension and Outreach Twitter Facebook Instagram Linked In YouTube Pinterest Blogs