Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Visas and Immigration » Faculty, Staff and Interns » Permanent Residency Set Navigation title in component Students F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Permanent Residency for International Workers UC International will meet with all full-time faculty and professional staff to discuss options for permanent residence, and assist whenever possible. UC International Services will not provide immigration assistance for applications based upon the Outstanding Researchers or Professors category, National Interest Waivers (NIW’s), marriage to a US citizen or other family based sponsorships, or the visa diversity lottery. International employees who desire to apply for these categories should use outside legal counsel to help process the petition. Qualifications In order to qualify for permanent residence as a professor, researcher, or professional, the position must be full-time and defined as permanent by UC. A permanent position is one that does not have a definite termination point defined either by a date or the completion of a project or assignment, is not seasonal or intermittent, and is not presently intended or contemplated by the department to have some specified end date in the future. Postdoctoral fellowships and "visiting" positions of any kind are not considered permanent by the university. Application Process Before beginning this process, both the employee and his/her supervisor should make an appointment with UC International to discuss the procedure and specific requirements. If it is determined that the job and employee meet the criteria for one of the permanent resident categories, UC International will work with the department to ensure that the job requirements and salary are in compliance with Department of Labor standards and formulate appropriate advertising. All permanent resident requests should be submitted through UC International's iBearcatsGlobal database. The permanent residency process for faculty and professional positions generally entails three phases. UC International assists with all three steps, which are: Labor Certification, UC’s filing of an I-140 petition requesting an immigrant visa for the foreign national once the Labor Certification Application is approved, and The foreign national’s filing of an I-485 application to adjust status to permanent residence. Start with UC International All permanent residency petitions begin with a consultation with UC International. Contact our office to set up a meeting. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top