Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > Global Health > International Visitors Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact International Visitors Join our Efforts to Improve Global Health and Health Care In the spirit of our global mission to facilitate education, clinical care, and research by fostering strategic partnerships that advance the practice of nursing at home and abroad, Columbia University School of Nursing welcomes visiting faculty and graduate student scholars. Both short (e.g., 1 day, 3 to 6 weeks) and long-term (up to 12 months) guests are invited to help realize the school’s goal of helping to improve the world’s health through education, service, practice, and research. Applying to be a visiting scholar Please allow six to twelve months for the application process and other requirements. International visitors need to allow time to apply for a visa or the visa waiver program. Excellent English language skills are essential for a productive visit and for visiting scholars to fully participate in the intellectual and social life at Columbia. Due to space and faculty limitations, we cannot accept all applications. To initiate the application process, please complete the Columbia University School of Nursing International Visitor Request Form. To ensure a timely response, please be sure to complete all fields in the form. A staff member will contact you to provide additional information or answer your questions. Requirements Your application requires that you provide: Curriculum vitae Cover letter that states your purpose and goals Documentation of English proficiency such as The TOEFL-IBT (Test of English as a Foreign Language) with a minimum score of 92; International English Language Testing System (IELTS) with a minimum score of 7.0. If you have completed a year or more of your post-secondary education in a program taught in English, we may wave this requirement. We will review your application based on: The goals, objectives, and areas of scholarly interest for the visit; Your English language proficiency; The planned dates and length of your stay; Availability of a suitable faculty mentor; and, Availability of workspace and other resources. We will contact you within 2 to 3 weeks to: Obtain more information if necessary; Connect you with potential faculty mentor(s); Arrange a video conference call with the Director of Global Health Research and a faculty mentor to discuss details of a possible visit; Inform you of the visiting scholar fee; or Decline your request and explain why. If your application is approved, then we will inform you and your faculty mentor, as well as the school’s Offices of Research and Scholarship, Human Resources, and Operations and Finance. An Office of Global Health Research staff member will coordinate your visit and inform you of the program fees. Please note that we cannot arrange clinical or hospital rotations. To apply or learn more about our visiting scholar program, please contact songlobal@cumc.columbia.edu Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top