Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Incoming Students – Summer 2022 Current Students Employers Alumni Veterans Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Mission & History STM Values Facts & Figures STM Global Diversity at STM Contact Us and Staff Directory Accreditation and Educational Effectiveness Related Links Strategic Plan STM News About BC Admission Overview Why Choose STM? How To Apply Funding Your Studies Scholarships & Assistantships Federal Financial Aid Webinars and Campus Visits Request Information Meet the Admissions Team Partnerships Related Links Living in Boston Facts & Figures FAQ New Student Information Academics Overview Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Theology and Ministry (M.A.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Hybrid M.A. in Theology and Ministry Master of Theology (Th.M.) Ph.D. in Theology and Education Doctorate in Sacred Theology (S.T.D.) Licentiate in Sacred Theology (S.T.L.) Bachelor of Sacred Theology (S.T.B.) Certificate in Theology and Ministry Certificate in Hispanic Ministry Certificate in Religious Education Post-Master's Certificate Certificate in Christian Spirituality Certificate in Ignatian Spirituality Certificate in Spiritual and Pastoral Care Hispanic Ministry Programs Dual Program with M.S.W. Dual Program with M.B.A. Dual Program in Counseling Nondegree Coursework Summer at STM Intensive on the 19th Annotation for Spiritual Directors Courses Summer at STM Summer at Linz Summer at STM Supervised Ministry Spirituality Studies Programs in Hispanic Theology and Ministry STM From a Distance Related Links Current Student Resources Dual Degrees Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium Arts at STM Certificates & Nondegree Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Jeffrey Von Arx, S.J. John F. Baldovin, S.J. André Brouillette, S.J. Francine Cardman Vicente Chong, S.J. Richard J. Clifford, S.J. Andrew R. Davis Daniel J. Daly Dominic F. Doyle Brian Dunkle, S.J. Angela Kim Harkins Colleen M. Griffith Margaret Eletta Guider, O.S.F. Barton T. Geger, S.J. Franklin T. Harkins Thomas H. Groome Mary Jo Iozzio David W. Jorgensen Maria Kakavas L. Callid Keefe-Perry Melissa Kelley Richard Lennan Rafael Luciani Christopher R. Matthews Catherine Mooney Matthew S. Monnig, S.J. Hosffman Ospino Theresa A. O'Keefe Félix Palazzi Andrea Ponzone, J.C.D., LL.B. William D. Roozeboom Jane E. Regan Walter J. Smith, S.J., Ph.D. Thomas D. Stegman, S.J. Judith A. Talvacchia O. Ernesto Valiente Benjamin Valentin Andrea Vicini, S.J. Joseph E. Weiss, S.J. Faculty Expertise New Testament Abstracts Student Research International Fellows Theology and Ministry Library Related Links BC Theology Department Lumen et Vita (STM Student Journal) Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies Ricci Institute for Chinese-Western Cultural History Center for Teaching Excellence Community Overview Liturgy & Worship Diversity & Dialogue Formation Living in Boston Our Spaces Career Development Student Forum Related Links Current Student Resources BC Campus Ministry BC Graduate Student Life STM Alumni Resources Continuing Ed Overview Crossroads Formación Continua Campus Events / Webinars Registration Instructions STM Webinar Zoom Help Encore The Journey Continues Calling Out From the Depths Close Directory A to Z Listing Search STM site Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Incoming Students – Summer 2022 Current Students Employers Alumni Veterans BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Admission Admission Why Choose STM? How To Apply Funding Your Studies Webinars and Campus Visits Request Information Meet the Admissions Team Partnerships Admission Connecting Spirit, Support, and Scholarship The School of Theology and Ministry stands as an intellectual and spiritual centerpiece of an esteemed research university grounded in a storied tradition of faith leadership training. We prepare students to transform communities, the Church, and the world through service. Here, renowned scholars and students actively engage with the most pressing issues at the intersection of faith and culture, promoting passionate dialogue and academic rigor. Our multicultural community maintains an environment of collaboration and mutual support. And we manifest our dedication to holistic formation through a range of personal, spiritual, and social experiences that challenge students to inhabit new modes of being while acquiring pastoral skills. At the center of it all: a deep, abiding commitment to our faith and finding God in everyday experiences—in the classroom and beyond. STM Impact: Dan Corrou, SJ Regional Director for Jesuit Refugee Service in the Middle East and North Africa apply Request Info Webinars and Campus Visits Financial Aid Contact Discern Your Program In the spirit of the Jesuit, Catholic intellectual tradition’s persistent pursuit of truth, we emphasize the process of discernment in decision making, prayer, and conversations with advisors. Discernment is about gathering as much information as possible to inform intense personal reflection. Use our Discernment Guide to browse information about our programs and potential careers. Discern Your Program Student and Alumni Voices Lay and religious men and women from around the world form our diverse community—one that represents a range of ages, interests, and experiences. Explore some of their stories. Campus Visits Visit us on campus to see for yourself what makes STM a great place to study theology and ministry. Set Up a Visit Boston: Where Faith Flourishes The Boston area’s vast variety of direct ministry opportunities empowers people of faith to flourish. STM students prepare for future careers, develop spiritually, and hone their ministry skills by serving community members at parishes, nonprofits, hospitals, prisons, and other settings. living in boston Boston College's Notice of Nondiscrimination may be accessed here. Back To Top Back To Top School of Theology and Ministry Simboli Hall 9 Lake Street Brighton, MA 02135-3841 617-552-6501 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Continuing Ed/Formación Continua Community Apply Visit Give Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College