Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Student Affairs VPSA Office Strategic Direction Departments Departments Campus Recreation Chaplain and Religious Life Dean of Students Dr Bob Smith Health Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Hegi Family Career Development Center Office of the Student Experience Residence Life and Student Housing Social Change and Intercultural Engagement Student Affairs Administration Student Center and Activities Women and LGBT Center Stakeholders Stakeholders Employers Parents and Families Partners Resources Resources Student Event Guidelines Student Boulevard Guidelines Alcohol Approval Request Form Giving Newsstand Get Help ☰ Student Affairs Get Help Bias Incidents Bias Education and Response Team (BERT) SMU values intellectual curiosity, vigorous debate, and meaningful dialogue in the advancement of mutual understanding and new discovery. In that vein, bias incidents can hinder our capacity to work with, teach, and learn from one another. What is the BERT? Report an Incident of Bias Bias Incident Reporting Form Reporting a Bias Incident If you observe or experience an incident of bias, we encourage you to file a report online through the Bias Incident Reporting Form to SMU's Bias Education and Response Team (BERT). The BERT will provide information and referrals to resources, while also tracking incidents to examine trends and opportunities for education. Alternatively, you may choose to file a report to BERT in person in any of the following locations: Office of Social Change and Intercultural Engagement Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Women and LGBT Center Office of Institutional Access and Equity FAQ's About BERT What is a bias incident? A bias incident is an action, behavior, or expression against an individual’s or group’s actual or perceived identity. Individuals or groups may experience bias based on, but not limited to: age, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, religion, disability, gender identity and expression, national origin, genetic information, or veteran status. Such bias incidents may be intentional or unintentional and affect the individual or SMU community. What is the purpose of the Bias Education and Response Team? Not all incidents of bias violate the law or SMU policy. However, at times they are out of congruence with our community values of cultural intelligence, mutual respect, and inclusion. The BERT enables SMU to provide support to community members who file a report, keep records of bias incidents, and analyze trends in efforts to continually improve our campus community with regard to our values. The BERT does not investigate, arbitrate, or replace other SMU procedures or services. Its purpose is to supplement and work with campus units to connect those who have been a target of an act of bias or those who have witnessed such an act with appropriate support and resources. The new protocol complements but does not substitute for University procedures regarding the reporting of discrimination, including sexual misconduct, to the Office of Institutional Access and Equity (smu.edu/iae or 214-768-3601). What happens when I file a report? After a report submission, the BERT will designate one of its members to respond to the reporting party within one business day. Upon communication with the reporting party, the BERT will assess the needs of the complainant and determine next steps. If the action violates the law or any SMU policy, further action may be taken by the following individuals or offices: SMU Police Office of Institutional Access and Equity Human Resources Office of the Provost Appropriate campus administrators (vice presidents, deans, or supervisors) Can I report anonymously? Yes, the BERT members will receive and review your report. However, anonymous reports limit the BERT’s capacity to take action. What is the BERT's composition? The core Bias Education and Response Team is composed of representatives from the Office of Social Change and Intercultural Engagement; Women and LGBT Center; Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards; and the Office of Institutional Access and Equity. As the team receives incident reports, the group will determine when or if other departments or individuals are included in the response process, depending on the nature of the incident. These responders may include but are not limited to Residence Life & Student Housing, International Student and Scholar Services, Violence Prevention & Support Services, and Caring Community Connections. Additional Resources SMU Police, 214-768-3333 SMU Counseling Services (confidential counseling), 214-768-2277 SMU Chaplain's Office (confidential counseling), 214-768-4502 Report Sexual Misconduct Complaint procedures for students with disabilities SMU Caring Community Connections Contact the Bias Education Response Team Contact Us Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share