Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content × Close Menu Close Academics Academics Academic Programs Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Medicine Nursing Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Admissions Visiting Seton Hall Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Athletics SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now About About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet SUPPORT SHU University Site Search Academics Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Nursing Theology Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Visit Campus Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Visiting Seton Hall Admissions Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Seton Hall Pirates SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now The Career Center Career Center Upcoming Events In the News Intern Spotlights Outcomes Highlights and Facts Career Planning and Advising: Meet the Staff Students Internship and Job Search Alumni Employers Posting Opportunities and On-Campus Interviewing Parents Menu Career Center Upcoming Events In the News Intern Spotlights Outcomes Highlights and Facts Career Planning and Advising: Meet the Staff Students Internship and Job Search Alumni Employers Posting Opportunities and On-Campus Interviewing Parents Seton Hall University The Career Center The Career Center's mission is to facilitate career development and experiential education opportunities that empower students to engage in lifelong career management. We provide a learning environment to ensure that our students are prepared for professional success and service to the common good. Programs and Services Internship and Job Search on Handshake Career Fairs and Recruiting Events Career Exploration, Assessments and Networking Resume and Cover Letter Preparation Interview Preparation Resources for Students International Students 95% Employment Rate in a Career-Related Job, Six Months after Graduation. More Career Outcomes » Hire Pirates! Services for Employers Learn More » Contact Us General Inquiries Call: (973) 761-9355 careers@shu.edu Location and Hours Bayley Hall, Room 209 Monday - Friday, 8:45 a.m. - 4:45 p.m. Appointments: Use Compass (via PirateNet) or call (973) 761-9355 to schedule an appointment. Appointments can be held in-person or via phone/video chat. Latest News MSM Networking Expo Returns to Campus Alumni Spotlight: Brian Sumereau Fall Career Fair Sees Record Turn Out VIEW ALL NEWS Upcoming Events Jun 23 Passaic County Law Enforcement Career Fair Jun 25 2022 LE Recruitment & Outreach Picnic VIEW ALL EVENTS What Great Minds Can Do Stephanie's Story Stephanie worked with Seton Hall's Career Center, and by her sophomore year she had begun the first of five internships. She interned with Time, Inc. twice, as well as with ABC News, CBS News and Z100, the No. 1 radio station in New York City. CHAMP Program About CHAMP The CommArts Honor Alumni Mentor Partners (CHAMP) pairs students together with alumni mentors at the top of their professions in some of the world's leading companies — an experience exclusive to the College of Communication and the Arts. Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9000 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top