Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Spanish MA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Spanish MA Apply Request More Info Spanish MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Arts in Spanish Develop your linguistic skills and delve into a robust literary experience with the Master of Arts in Spanish in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. This interdisciplinary master’s program integrates language studies with literature while providing students opportunities to refine their research and teaching skills in preparation for doctoral programs or careers in many professional fields. The Spanish MA has a 30-credit curriculum that includes a diverse menu of core and elective courses in advanced linguistics and literature. Linguistics courses cover areas such as dialectology, phonology, sociolinguistics and syntax, while literature courses explore works from medieval times through the 21st century. You can choose to focus your Spanish studies, and specialize in one of the following areas. Hispanic linguistics Spanish American literature Peninsular Spanish literature This opportunity is particularly valuable to students interested in furthering their research at the doctoral level. The Spanish MA program is designed to provide the skills and experience necessary to pursue your PhD in Spanish, or professional opportunities in business, education, government, social and medical services, and more. Several dedicated courses are available for those interested in learning Spanish for a career in the healthcare industry. Through these courses, you’ll explore health trends in Hispanic populations and refine your medical Spanish. If this is an area of interest to you, Temple also offers an online graduate certificate in Spanish for Health Professions, which prepares professionals to engage with Latino and Spanish-speaking communities in healthcare settings. Program Format & Curriculum Students have three years to satisfy their requirements for the Spanish MA program, which can be completed on a full- or part-time basis. Classes take place on Temple’s Main Campus. The 30-credit Spanish MA curriculum comprises one core course, elective courses, a Graduate Language Examination (GLE) and a comprehensive examination. The GLE is administered four times per year⁠⁠—twice during the fall semester and twice during the spring semester. Catalan exams are administered by the department upon request. Register for the GLE. Learn more about Spanish MA program requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Anthropology PhD Education/Applied Linguistics PhD* History MA History PhD Secondary Education MEd (World-Foreign Languages Education)* Spanish PhD Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages MSEd* Travel and Tourism MS** Related Graduate Certificates Destination Management** English as a Second Language* English Language Teaching* Global Tourism** Spanish for Health Professions *College of Education and Human Development **School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact With questions regarding the Spanish MA, contact the following staff member. Víctor Pueyo Zoco is the graduate chair. Phone: 215-204-5129 Email: vpueyozo@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Montserrat Piera is the chair. Phone: 215-204-8285 Email: mpiera01@temple.edu Michelle Xu is an administrator in the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: xu.michelle@temple.edu Annette Vega is the program coordinator. Phone: 215-204-2877 Email: avega1@temple.edu Graduate Student Resources Academic Support Services The Student Success Center provides support for Spanish language learners. Conversation Partners Meet one-on-one with a fluent speaker of Spanish to practice speaking and listening, build vocabulary, develop grammar skills, improve reading-comprehension in Spanish texts, and prepare for examinations. Writing Tutoring The writing tutoring service provides one-on-one support for students who are working on papers for classes, as well as cover letters, creative writing, résumés, scholarship essays, and any other texts students are working on in Spanish. Contact For graduate support, contact Liz Ursell, director and vice provost in the Student Success Center. Email: eursell@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Spanish MA coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The following clubs and organizations are available to Spanish MA students. Club de Español is a student organization, and its principal goal is to promote the practice of speaking Spanish. This is achieved through weekly conversation tables, which allow students to practice their conversation skills in a relaxed environment. Hispanic culture is celebrated all year through different student activities. The Graduate Students of Language at Temple connects students who study or have an interest in language, and it helps them form interdisciplinary networks for discussion and research. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-SPAN-MA Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Spanish MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info