Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Sociology Department Menu Main Nav Sociology Department Sociology Department Contact Back Back Close About Overview Contact News and Notes Giving People Overview Faculty Clusters Open Positions Undergraduate Overview Degree Programs Major & Minor Requirements Resources for Current Students Honors Program Careers Departmental Awards Graduate Overview Degree Programs Courses Resources for Current Students International Students Funding Tuition, Health Care and Housing Graduate Consortium Recent Ph.D. Graduates Ph.D. Alumni Events Courses Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Sociology Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Sociology Home Undergraduate Undergraduate Degree Programs Major & Minor Requirements Resources for Current Students Honors Program Careers Departmental Awards Undergraduate Sociology examines the organization, structure, and change of societal groups. It combines rigorous methods of inquiry and analysis with a remarkable freedom of choice in research topics: mass media, the environment, racism, gender issues, class, war and peace, and deviance and social control, to name just a few possible topics. At Boston College, sociologists also take a transformative approach in their research and teaching, making the sociological experience here not only rigorous and creative but socially relevant and engaged. Training in this field is useful in a broad range of occupations, and also prepares students for graduate study in a number of disciplines. The diverse possibilities in sociology are reflected by our faculty, which includes scholars like Stephen Pfohl, who studies postmodernism and psychoanalysis, among other topics, and who creates art that experiments with new mediums of sociological exchange; Zine Magubane, an influential scholar and prolific writer (with article titles like "Globalization and Gangster Rap: Hip Hop in the post Apartheid City”); Juliet Schor, who's been interviewed on the Today show, NPR, and elsewhere for her research and books on the impact of consumerism on daily life; and many others. We invite you to look over our website and see whether the study of sociology at Boston College seems right for you. If you have any questions about our program, feel free to email us at sociology@bc.edu, call 617-552-4130, or drop by our office at McGuinn 426. Learning Outcomes Critical skills and thinking. Students will be able to apply a sociological lens to scholarly research and other sources of information (e.g., newspapers). Career training. Students will be well-prepared for graduate training and/or entry-level positions in various fields: Students will be able to reason logically, write cogently, and work with others. Students will be able to discuss, in depth, sociological theories, ideas, and literature. Research skills. Students will be able to transform a problem of interest into a researchable question. Students will be able to justify various methodological decisions on ethical as well as logical grounds. Students will be able to collect, analyze, and interpret qualitative and quantitative data. Life skills. Students will develop a deeper understanding of themselves and their role in society. Students will be able to explain how societal and structural factors influence life experiences and social problems across historical and cultural contexts. Back To Top Back To Top Sociology Department McGuinn Hall 426 617-552-4130 sociology@bc.edu Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Give to Sociology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College