Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Membership Set Navigation title in component Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Membership Campus Recreation is so much more than a gym. It is a community. A membership offers full access to our award-winning spaces, pools, a climbing wall, track and basketball courts. Campus Recreation offers the opportunity to develop habits that will last a lifetime. It is a place to find balance in your life and a sense of well-being. At Campus Recreation, you can socialize, laugh, have fun, reduce your stress and find a sense of belonging. membership application my member services portal Eligibility Membership is included in the Campus Life fee for all full-time, Uptown-Campus students. Semester memberships are available for purchase by Blue Ash and Clermont students, graduate students, and part-time students. UC faculty and staff (current and retired), alumni and community members are also eligible to purchase memberships for themselves and their families. Special membership rates are also available to our campus affiliates such as employees with UC Foundation, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, UC Health, UC Medical Center, UC Physicians, UC Foundation, Aramark, Central Clinic Behavioral Health, EPA, Follett, Kingsgate Marriott, PNC Bank, and Cincinnati Zoo. Current or retired Police, Fire, EMT and Paramedics will also have a special rate, as well as, active, reserve, guard and retired military personnel. How do I purchase? Campus Recreation memberships may be purchased at the Member Services desk at both the Campus Recreation Center and CARE/Crawley Fitness Center. New memberships must be purchased in person. Questions? Contact us at 513-556-0604 or email us at campusrec@uc.edu. The Campus Recreation Center accepts cash, check, credit card and Bearcat dollars as form of payment upon signing up for a membership or day pass. Membership Benefits Campus Recreation memberships are not facility specific, and provide dual access to the Campus Recreation Center and the Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley. FREE Fitness Floor Orientation All memberships include FREE group fitness! Premium classes are also available at member rates. Members receive an average of 30% off services such as personal training! FREE access to the Aquatic Complex with 3 pools including an Olympic-sized lap pool. FREE access to climbing wall, indoor track, gym and racquetball and squash courts, weight and cardio equipment and so much more! Quick Links Online Portal for Members Rates Terms & Conditions Membership Application Lockers Informed Consent Waiver Membership Cancellation Membership Freeze Joining is as easy as 1, 2, 3! Download/complete the membership application and bring it to either Campus Recreation location. The Member Services Staff will get you started! Membership Rates are below. Schedule a FREE Fitness Floor Orientation with our fitness staff to get acquainted and on the right track with your goals! Membership Rates & Payment Options Faculty, Staff & Retirees Affiliates Students Short-Term Dependents Parking Lockers & Towels Payment Options Annual Membership Annual contract required. Annual membership fees paid monthly will continue on a per-month basis after the first-year expiration date unless the membership is cancelled via the online membership cancellation form. Membership add-ons are available, including family members and parking. Please review Terms & Conditions for Annual Memberships. Online Portal for Members: My Member Services Ready to begin tracking your fitness and wellness journey? The Campus Recreation’s online portal allows you to view your account information, including visits and payment history, reserve racquetball courts and register for programs. How to Access Your Account Check out the online portal, and follow the directions below for creating your account and logging in for the first time: First Time Sign Up Go to the online portal. Click on “Do not have a login?” Enter your 9-digit Member Number (UC Staff/Students M Number – include the “M” when inserting your number) Don’t know your Member Number? Find it on your UC or CRC ID or email us at campusrec@uc.edu Create a username and password (ensure your email address is correct; this should be a UC email address as used by all UC faculty/staff/students). Click the Home button to begin using the Campus Recreation Online Portal. Forgotten Username or Password Click on "Forgot your username/password" Enter your email address. Please note if you're UC faculty/staff, this will be your @ucmail.uc.edu email address. If you're a UC student, this will be your @mail.uc.edu email address. Otherwise, it will be the email you gave us at sign up. If you're not sure of this, call the Member Services Desk at 513-556-0604 or email us at campusrec@uc.edu. You will receive an email from campusrec@uc.edu with your new username and password. Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top