Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Biomedical Sciences (MS) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Medicine Department(s) Biomedical Sciences In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Master of Science in Biomedical Sciences program is a nonthesis program for students who wish to further their knowledge in the field and prepare for professional careers in medical fields, higher education, and research. Students interested in research and thesis work should apply to the Master of Science in Biotechnology program. This degree has 5 tracks: Cancer Biology Track, Infectious Disease Track, Integrated Medical Sciences Track, Metabolic and Cardiovascular Sciences Track, and Neuroscience Track. Please scroll to the bottom of this page for further details on these Tracks. While many students discover that they have interests in varied disciplines at the University of Central Florida, they are not permitted to pursue two majors within the College of Medicine. College of Medicine students may declare a major and a minor within the college, or pursue a second major or minor in another academic college at UCF. Students are encouraged to meet with an academic advisor to discuss these opportunities. Request Information View Full Description Program Tracks/Options Neuroscience Integrated Medical Sciences Track Metabolic & Cardiovascular Science Cancer Biology Infectious Disease Application Deadlines Domestic International Fall January 1 Fall January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Anatomy Professor Bacteriology Technician Biology Laboratory Assistant Botany Professor Clinical Pharmacologist Clinical Research Scientist Embryology Professor Gerontologist Histologist Histopathologist Immunochemist Industrial Pharmacist Medical Health Researcher Microbiology Professor Microbiology Technician Neuroscientist Pharmacologist Serologist Toxicologist Zoology Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Medicine programs Masters Biomedical Sciences (MS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Biomedical Sciences (MS) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Science in Biomedical Sciences program is a nonthesis program for students who wish to further their knowledge in the field and prepare for professional careers in medical fields, higher education, and research. Students interested in research and thesis work should apply to the Master of Science in Biotechnology program. This degree has 5 tracks: Cancer Biology Track, Infectious Disease Track, Integrated Medical Sciences Track, Metabolic and Cardiovascular Sciences Track, and Neuroscience Track. Please scroll to the bottom of this page for further details on these Tracks. While many students discover that they have interests in varied disciplines at the University of Central Florida, they are not permitted to pursue two majors within the College of Medicine. College of Medicine students may declare a major and a minor within the college, or pursue a second major or minor in another academic college at UCF. Students are encouraged to meet with an academic advisor to discuss these opportunities. Program Prerequisites A bachelor's degree in Biological Sciences or related area. Applicants who hold a BS degree in unrelated fields are expected to have the equivalent of 16 semester hours in biological sciences including a course in general microbiology, biochemistry or molecular biology or cell biology, plus one year of organic chemistry, one year of physics, basic university mathematics and statistics, and laboratory skills equivalent to the minimum required of our own undergraduates. Minor deficiencies may be remedied after acceptance by enrollment at the first opportunity in an appropriate course. Degree Requirements Required Courses 18 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: ZOO6737 - Clinically Oriented Human Anatomy (4) MCB6226 - Molecular Diagnostics (3) PCB6595 - Regulation of Gene Expression (3) PHI5634 - Medical Ethics (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: BSC6407C - Laboratory Methods in Molecular Biology (3) BSC5418 - Tissue Engineering (3) Complete 1 of the following Earn at least 2 credits from the following types of courses: MCB 6938 - Seminar 1 Credit Hour (to be repeated) Earn at least 2 credits from the following types of courses: MCB 6938 - Seminar 1 Credit Hour MCB 6314 - Industrial Perspectives Seminar 1 Credit Hours Elective Courses 12 Total Credits Complete all of the following Biomedical Specialization Complete all of the following Earn at least 6 credits from the following: BSC5418 - Tissue Engineering (3) BSC5418 - Tissue Engineering (3) MCB6226 - Molecular Diagnostics (3) PCB5238 - Immunobiology (3) PCB5236 - Cancer Biology (3) PCB5275 - Signal Transduction Mechanics (3) PCB5527 - Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (3) PCB5709C - Laboratory Virtual Simulations in Physiology (3) PCB5815 - Molecular Aspects of Obesity, Diabetes and Metabolism (3) PCB5834C - Advanced Human Physiology (4) IDS5127 - Foundation of Bio-Imaging Science (3) PCB5265 - Stem Cell Biology (3) GEB5516 - Technological Entrepreneurship (3) Others: If approved by Graduate Committee Microbiology Specialization Complete all of the following Earn at least 6 credits from the following: MCB5205 - Infectious Processes (3) MCB5505 - Molecular Virology (3) MCB5208 - Cellular Microbiology: Host-Pathogen Interactions (3) MCB6417C - Microbial Metabolism (3) MCB5932 - Current Topics in Molecular Biology (1 - 99) MCB5415 - Cellular Metabolism (3) MCB5209 - Microbial Stress Response (3) PCB6595 - Regulation of Gene Expression (3) PCB5235 - Molecular Immunology (3) Others: If approved by Graduate Committee Capstone 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: MCB6026 - Molecular Biology and Microbiology Capstone (3) An in-depth current literature research report on a relevant subject will be required for each student. The student will select a faculty adviser to chair a faculty committee of two members for the evaluation of the report. An oral presentation on the written capstone report will be used as a final examination. Capstone Process Students are encouraged to contact faculty as early as possible to identify a faculty whose research focus complements the student's interest. The student and the mentor should select one additional faculty members to serve on the capstone evaluation committee. Students must submit a signed Capstone Committee and Capstone Topic form to the Program Coordinator for approval as soon as the registration for the course is complete. These forms must be submitted to the Program Office. When the student is ready to defend the Capstone project, the student must register for the capstone course (MCB 6026) for three credit hours. It is important that the student register for the capstone course with the intention of completing the project at the end of the semester. Capstone Report Evaluation of the capstone project requires a written report (in the format of a mini-review manuscript) and a presentation (project defense) in front of the capstone committee. Students may ask for advice and guidance from the project mentor/chair. The average capstone report ranges from 10 to 15 single-spaced pages in a manuscript format with proper citations. The student's Committee Chair will be responsible for checking the report for plagiarism using iThenticate before the report is shared with the committee. The committee must receive the report at least one week before the time of presentation. Capstone Defense Note: The defense (presentation) must be held no later than one week before the final exam week. The capstone defense and comprehensive exam evaluation is designed to assess the student's knowledge and understanding of the project and other relevant subjects in the field. Questions asked by the capstone committee to evaluate the student as competent in the field will satisfy the requirement of the comprehensive exam. The oral presentation will take place in the form of a 30-40 minute seminar and will be followed by questions and discussion. The student will be evaluated on performance in all three sections (written report, oral presentation, and ability to answer questions). Should the student fail, a second opportunity will be provided within two weeks of the first attempt. A second failure will result in an Unsatisfactory (U) grade in the course and dismissal from the program. Comprehensive Exam 0 Total Credits Students must pass an oral comprehensive exam to qualify for the Master of Science. The oral comprehensive exam tests the student's understanding of the basic concepts in the field and relevant applications. The comprehensive exam will be conducted during the capstone defense and will be administered by the capstone committee. Should the student fail this exam, a second opportunity will be provided within two weeks of the first attempt. A second failure will result in dismissal from the program. Teaching Requirement 0 Total Credits Students without significant prior teaching experience, such as but not limited to, a minimum of a year in secondary schools or colleges, are required to serve as Classroom Laboratory Teaching Assistants for a minimum of one semester (one semester in at least one lab section). Research Shadowing (Optional) 0 Total Credits Students are encouraged to discuss with their capstone mentor the possibility of joining the lab for research shadowing of other graduate students. Acquired lab skills should assist students with the capstone project and with future endeavors. Independent Learning 0 Total Credits In the final semester of study, nonthesis students will complete a capstone course that requires an in-depth current literature research report on a relevant subject, which will serve as the independent learning experience. The student will select a faculty adviser to chair a faculty committee of two members for evaluation of the report. Grand Total Credits: 33 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. A bachelor's degree in Biological Sciences or related area. Official, competitive GRE score (taken within the last five years) or MCAT score (taken within the last three years). Three letters of recommendation. A written statement of research experience, area of interest, and immediate and long-range goals. Resume or CV. Personal interviews are helpful but not required. Applicants who do not have a competitive GPA or GRE/MCAT may occasionally be accepted if there is other convincing evidence of potential for high achievement and success. Applicants who hold a BS degree in unrelated fields are expected to have the equivalent of 16 semester hours in biological sciences including a course in general microbiology, biochemistry or molecular biology or cell biology, plus one year of organic chemistry, one year of physics, basic university mathematics and statistics, and laboratory skills equivalent to the minimum required of our own undergraduates. Minor deficiencies may be remedied after acceptance by enrollment at the first opportunity in an appropriate course. Application Deadlines Biomedical Sciences MS *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 1 Jan 1 International Applicants Jan 1 Jan 1 The Fall 2022 application deadline has been extended to: January 15, 2022 - International Applicants February 1, 2022 - Domestic Applicants *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Nonthesis students are not considered for departmental graduate assistantships or tuition assistance. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida