COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Academics Section Menu Majors and Programs Applied Learning Advising Graduate School Online Learning Adult Learning Workforce, Professional and Community Education Student Success University Libraries Transcripts Schedule of Courses Course Catalogs Centers and Institutes Academic Affairs Summer School at WSU Shock Your Career Spring 2021 Course Design Plans Emeritus Faculty Stop Video Find out more about becoming a Shocker.Request info Wichita State is where the classroom and real-world experience collide. Our unmatched industry connections give Shockers in every major the opportunity to gain practical experience with employers in their areas of interest—preparing them for future success before graduation. Our Innovative Approach Academic programs Whether you want to start, switch or upgrade your career, it all starts with one of our quality academic programs. All Programs A-Z Majors & Minors Graduate Programs Online Programs Certificates Badges Go beyond the books Internships & Co-ops Try out a career and get the professional experience you need — before you graduate. WSU's internships and co-ops connect students with employers in their areas of interest, where they can build a resume, earn academic credit and a paycheck. Study Abroad Thanks to WSU's extensive study-abroad connections, you can take your WSU education on the road and swap campuses, countries and culture — for a summer, semester or full academic year — while earning credit toward your degree and paying WSU tuition. Student Outcomes Where can a Wichita State education take you? Just ask our current students and recent grads who’ve taken advantage of our unmatched opportunities to discover their dream careers, conduct groundbreaking research and, ultimately, make a positive impact on their futures—and the world. Invested in your success The transition to college life can be challenging. WSU's Office of Student Success is proactive in helping all students maximize their potential and reach their personal goals. Student Success offers personal success coaches, tutoring services and financial advisors to support students straight through from orientation to graduation. Learn More about Student Success Colleges & Schools Dorothy and Bill Cohen Honors College College of Health Professions College of Applied Studies Fairmount college of Liberal Arts & Sciences College of Engineering W. Frank Barton School of Business College of Fine Arts Graduate School College of Innovation and Design Centers and Institutes WSU Libraries 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©