Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Honors College Menu About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give Baylor>Honors College>About>FAQs FAQs Academics 1. Will someone work with Honors College students to help them plan their academic schedule? 2. What benefits do National Merit Finalists receive? 3. Does the Honors College offer research and internship opportunities for Pre-Health and Science students? 4. What is required for the Honors Program Senior Thesis? AP, IB, and Dual Credits 1. How do my AP, IB, and dual credit courses count in the Honors College? 2. Which Summer of Discovery courses should I take for the Honors College? 3. Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) and AP/IB/Dual Credits 4. Great Texts (GTX) and AP/IB/Dual Credits 5. Honors Program (HP) and AP/IB/Dual Credits 6. University Scholars (UNSC) and AP/IB/Dual Credits Applications/Application Deadlines 1. Should a student apply to the Honors College or to one of the programs within the Honors College? 2. If a student received a letter informing him/her that he/she qualifies for certain programs within the Honors College, will he/she be automatically admitted to those programs? 3. Is the Honors College application separate from the Baylor application? 4. What is the application deadline for the Honors College? 5. What are the enrollment deadlines for the Honors College programs/majors? 6. What test scores are required for admission to the Honors College? Are minimum test scores required? 7. How does the Honors College process home school applicants? Do home school students have any special requirements? 8. I just applied to Baylor through the Common App/Apply Texas and want to apply to the Honors College, but I do not have a goBAYLOR account. What should I do? 9. I received an error message on my Honors College application saying that I shouldn't start a new application if I have already started a CommonApp. What do I do? Benefits of Being in the Honors College 1. What are the benefits of being in the Honors College? Getterman Scholars Program 1. How are Getterman Scholars selected? 2. Do I need to apply to the Honors College before I apply to Getterman? 3. Do I need to be accepted to the Honors College first before I apply to Getterman? 4. Who chooses Getterman Scholars? 5. What is the most important factor in a student's application? 6. Will a technologically impressive video essay be better? 7. How should I prepare for the Getterman application process? 8. Will I be eligible for I2E and Getterman scholarships? 9. How will Baylor hold the 2022 Getterman Scholars Day? 10. Can Getterman winners defer acceptance? 11. What other HC sessions do I need to attend in order to be eligible for Getterman Scholars? 12. Are international students eligible to participate in the Getterman Scholars program? Graduation 1. If a student is enrolled in an Honors College program, does that mean he/she will "graduate with honors"? Honors College Programs 1. Is the Honors College the same thing as the Honors Program? 2. Can a student be enrolled in more than one Honors College program? 3. How do the Honors Program and the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core work together? 4. Is there a one-page overview of the four different Honors College programs? 5. Whom should I contact to learn more about the Honors College and its programs? Housing 1. What is the deadline to apply to reside in the HRC? 2. Do all Honors College students live in the Honors Residential College (HRC)? 3. Why should I consider living in the HRC? 4. How many students reside in the HRC? 5. How many incoming students are accepted to reside in the HRC each year? 6. What makes the HRC unique to other residence halls or on-campus communities? Orientation 1. What is Orientation, and is it mandatory to attend? 2. What is Honors Line Camp and is it mandatory to attend? Scholarships 1. How much does Baylor cost? 2. Does the Honors College offer scholarships for incoming/current students? 3. Does the Honors College provide scholarships for study abroad? 4. If students do not receive a scholarship in their freshman year, can they re-apply in latter semesters? 5. Where do students apply for Honors College scholarships? Academics 1. Will someone work with Honors College students to help them plan their academic schedule? Faculty and/or staff in each Honors College program assist all Honors College students in academic advisement during Orientation and each semester thereafter. 2. What benefits do National Merit Finalists receive? The University automatically considers high-achieving students, such as National Merit Finalists, for academic scholarships in addition to various other scholarship opportunities. For more information on the affordability of a Baylor education, CLICK HERE. For more information about Honors College scholarships, CLICK HERE. 3. Does the Honors College offer research and internship opportunities for Pre-Health and Science students? Yes! There are a variety of Prehealth opportunities for students to apply to through the Honors College. The Honors Program offers a series of workshops and a course (BIO 1125 Biological Research Preparedness) to assist students with becoming familiar with research in the freshman year. The The Summer Undergraduate Research Program with Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research. It is a nine-week internship designed to provide research experience and mentorship for students interested in biomedical research. The Heal the City Summer Internship allows students to work with a free medical clinic that provides healthcare to the uninsured in Amarillo, Texas, and the Panhandle. The MD Anderson Undergraduate Cancer Research Internship is a 10-week program for outstanding undergraduates interested in learning more about cancer research and treatment. Additionally, we encourage you to seek out professors within your specific field of interest who are working on their own research. Often, though not always, professors are eager to accept undergraduate students as research assistants and give them the opportunity to do so while on-campus. 4. What is required for the Honors Program Senior Thesis? o The Honors Program curriculum culminates in a Senior Thesis. For this project you choose and work with a mentor who guides you in choosing and pursuing a research question. A required course in research methods during your sophomore or junior year is meant to guide you as you formulate your project. A thesis might consist of bench research in the sciences, archeological field research in Italy, creating original artwork, writing a business plan -- the possibilities are practically endless! By the end of your senior year, you will have produced and defended this substantial piece of original research or creative expression. Many students tell us that this is the most challenging and rewarding part of their college experience. Examples of Outstanding Honors Theses can be found through the Honors Program website here. BACK TO TOP AP, IB, and Dual Credits 1. How do my AP, IB, and dual credit courses count in the Honors College? Baylor University accepts credits earned through exams, dual-credit, and transfer courses. If Baylor accepts your specific AP, IB, or dual credit, then you receive those hours and they will be noted on your transcript. Please read below for details on how these will be considered in each program in the Honors College, and speak with an advisor before selecting your courses. For a list of AP and IB credits accepted by Baylor, please visit the Institutional Research and Testing site and click on "Testing" in the left column. 2. Which Summer of Discovery courses should I take for the Honors College? Click here to learn more about Summer of Discovery courses and the Honors College. 3. Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) and AP/IB/Dual Credits AP, IB, and dual credit courses do not replace BIC courses. Since our courses are interdisciplinary, we cannot pull the history out of World Cultures or the literature out of World of Rhetoric. You would miss a valuable part of the BIC program. If the course for which you receive AP IB, or dual credit is required by your major, then your credit meets the major requirement. For example, if you receive credit for PSC 1305-American National Government, and are a political science major, then the credit meets a major requirement, but does not affect your BIC requirements. 4. Great Texts (GTX) and AP/IB/Dual Credits For students who are considering a Great Texts major and are wondering about the applicability of transfer credits (dual Credit, AP) there are generally no equivalents for GTX courses. We recommend consulting with your advisor regarding substitutions for your general education core requirements. 5. Honors Program (HP) and AP/IB/Dual Credits The Honors Program is an enhancement to your major, so you can take any class required for your degree, major, or preprofessional program (like premed or prelaw) this summer! Please talk to your academic advisor about best options for you. 6. University Scholars (UNSC) and AP/IB/Dual Credits All courses accepted for Baylor University credit will count toward graduation hours in the University Scholars program. Scores required to receive AP and similar exam-based credit are available HERE. Information about transfer and dual-credit courses can be found HERE. BACK TO TOP Applications/Application Deadlines 1. Should a student apply to the Honors College or to one of the programs within the Honors College? To be a member of the Honors College, a student must submit the Honors College Common Application. Upon successful submission, he/she will be directed to submit one or more program-specific applications. The student MUST submit at least one program-specific application to be considered for entrance into that program and into the Honors College. Entrance into the Honors College is by way of the program. 2. If a student received a letter informing him/her that he/she qualifies for certain programs within the Honors College, will he/she be automatically admitted to those programs? No, to be admitted, he/she still has to submit the Honors College Common Application and subsequently apply to the particular program or programs for which he/she qualifies and which interests him/her. 3. Is the Honors College application separate from the Baylor application? All Baylor applicants are welcome to apply to the Honors College programs through our one joint application on goBAYLOR. You do not need to wait to be accepted to Baylor in order to apply for the Honors College and our scholarships (learn more here). However, we will not be able to view and process your application until you are accepted to the University. University Scholars, BIC, and/or the Honors Program. Great Texts does not require a separate application – simply designate your major as Great Texts in your goBAYLOR account. For more information about the Honors College application process, click here. 4. What is the application deadline for the Honors College? The Honors College is comprised of four programs, and entrance into the Honors College is by way of a program. For each program that requires an application, its deadline is as follows: BIC Application Deadline: Applicants are admitted on a rolling basis throughout the year, and acceptance e-mails are sent on a weekly basis following phone interviews. Interested students are encouraged to apply as early as possible for advising and housing purposes. (NOTE: You may only enter the BIC as an incoming freshman.) Contact BIC here for more information. Great Texts is offered as a major/minor and does not have an application deadline. If you desire to major/minor in Great Texts, submit the Honors College application and simply select “Great Texts” when asked to indicate the program(s) in the Honors College to which you would like to apply. After submitting the Honors College application, you will be asked to select whether you would like to add Great Texts as a major or minor. Contact Great Texts here for more information. Honors Program Application Deadline: Applicants are admitted on a rolling basis throughout the year, and acceptance letters will be sent on a monthly basis. Interested students are encouraged to apply as early as possible for advising and housing purposes. Contact the Honors Program here for more information. University Scholars Application Deadline: Applicants are admitted on a rolling basis throughout the year, and acceptance letters will be sent on a monthly basis. Interested students are encouraged to apply as early as possible for advising and housing purposes. Contact University Scholars here for more information. Honors Residential College Application Deadline: Admission is by special application only and is competitive; rooms in the HRC are in high demand. Therefore, we encourage you to apply, or to reapply, for admission early. To begin the application process, click here. For more information on the Honors College application process, click here. More Information: https://www.baylor.edu/honorscollege/index.php?id=960143 5. What are the enrollment deadlines for the Honors College programs/majors? Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC): Because each entering BIC class of students progresses through the curriculum together, you must enroll in the BIC your first semester as a freshman. Great Texts: This is offered as a major/minor. You may declare it as such at any time. You may switch to or add Great Texts as a major/minor in the academic advisement office located on the first floor of the Paul L. Foster Success Center (Sid Richardson Building). Honors Program: If you have at least a 3.5 GPA at the start of your first spring semester, you will be invited to join the Honors Program. The latest you can join this program is the first semester of your junior year. University Scholars: This is offered as a major; however, in order that students derive the full benefit from the program, University Scholars will not accept students who have less than three years (e.g., juniors/seniors) or less than 90 hours remaining to complete their undergraduate degree at Baylor. All Scholars must therefore complete at least 90 hours as students within the program. Students who enter late are responsible for changing their majors to University Scholars. Students with less than 30 credit hours can change their major in the academic advisement office located on the first floor of the Paul L. Foster Success Center (Sid Richardson Building). 6. What test scores are required for admission to the Honors College? Are minimum test scores required? The Honors College does not have required test scores for admission. Applications are reviewed holistically, with test scores contributing as one part of a student’s application. For more information about the Honors College application process, click here. Baylor is test-optional for this application cycle, meaning that test scores are optional but not required. For more information on the test-optional process, click here. 7. How does the Honors College process home school applicants? Do home school students have any special requirements? The admission process for home school students is the same as it is for students who went to public high school. However, home school students are required to submit standardized test scores with their application; they cannot apply as test-optional. For more information about Baylor’s requirements for home school students, click here. 8. I just applied to Baylor through the Common App/Apply Texas and want to apply to the Honors College, but I do not have a goBAYLOR account. What should I do? Students will receive an email with steps on how to activate their goBAYLOR account about 48 hours after submitting their application via the Common App or ApplyTX. Students do not need to be admitted before having access to goBAYLOR and are able to access the Honors College Application once their application has been received. We recommend students wait until they receive this email to activate their goBAYLOR account as to not cause a duplicate which can delay the processing of their application. 9. I received an error message on my Honors College application saying that I shouldn't start a new application if I have already started a CommonApp. What do I do? Students that see this message have not yet submitted their Baylor University Application for admission (Common Application, Apply Texas, or Baylor Web Application). Once you submit your university application, you will be able to access the Honors College application in goBAYLOR. BACK TO TOP Benefits of Being in the Honors College 1. What are the benefits of being in the Honors College? Excellent Preparation for Further Academic Pursuits: Undertake rigorous, significant academic pursuits such as an undergraduate thesis or research with faculty that will pave the way for higher, post-graduate exploration Living-Learning Residence Life: Take advantage of on-campus housing opportunities designed for Honors College students to strike a balance between social life and serious intellectual pursuits. Click here for more details. Interdisciplinary Learning Take courses that bridge multiple departments and integrate the sciences and the humanities Primary Texts Wrestle with the greatest books from the greatest minds rather than from textbooks or commentaries Team Teaching Enter into, and learn from, conversations between faculty Seminar Classes Rather than passive note-taking, participate actively in the exposition, analysis, and criticism of texts, arguments, and experiments Research Participate in research with the best faculty at Baylor in various fields and disciplines. Click here for more details. Pre-Health Opportunities Take advantage of priority registration, reserved places in labs and science classes, and summer internships. Click here for more details. Extracurricular Intellectual Pursuits Attend lectures and join book or film discussion groups specifically designed for Honors College students Scholarship/Fellowship Opportunities Pursue, with the aid of academic advisors, a range of scholarship and fellowship opportunities for post-undergraduate study. Click here for more details. BACK TO TOP Getterman Scholars Program 1. How are Getterman Scholars selected? Getterman recipients are selected based on academic merit and leadership potential within their chosen fields. A selection committee assesses each student's application and identifies around thirty finalists who are invited for personal interviews during the Getterman Scholars Day in spring. 2. Do I need to apply to the Honors College before I apply to Getterman? Yes, your Honors College application must be submitted in order for your Getterman application to be reviewed. This gives application reviewers a better understanding of your collegiate goals and career pursuits. Click HERE to see the Honors College and Getterman application deadlines. 3. Do I need to be accepted to the Honors College first before I apply to Getterman? No. You can apply to Getterman before being accepted to the Honors College. Click HERE to see the Honors College and Getterman application deadlines. 4. Who chooses Getterman Scholars? Getterman applications are holistically reviewed by a faculty committee in the Honors College. 5. What is the most important factor in a student's application? Applications are reviewed holistically. A student's academic record, extracurriculars, Honors College essay responses, video essay response, and interview will all be taken into consideration. 6. Will a technologically impressive video essay be better? No. We want to see your creativity and personality, and that can be expressed in a variety of ways. We recognize that not all students have access to special equipment or video platforms; content is important, not the production Click HERE to read our Getterman application tips. 7. How should I prepare for the Getterman application process? Click HERE to read our Getterman application tips. 8. Will I be eligible for I2E and Getterman scholarships? Yes, you are eligible for both, but you will not be able to receive both scholarships. 9. How will Baylor hold the 2022 Getterman Scholars Day? The 2022 Getterman Scholars Day will be an in-person event. 10. Can Getterman winners defer acceptance? No. If you defer your acceptance to Baylor, you will have to re-apply for the Getterman Scholars Program again next year. 11. What other HC sessions do I need to attend in order to be eligible for Getterman Scholars? If selected as a Getterman finalist, you will be required to attend the January Invitation to Excellence program with the Honors College. 12. Are international students eligible to participate in the Getterman Scholars program? International students are welcome to participate in the Getterman Scholars selection process. All students who are named finalists are expected to attend the in-person final selection event, Getterman Scholars Day, in Waco, Texas. BACK TO TOP Graduation 1. If a student is enrolled in an Honors College program, does that mean he/she will "graduate with honors"? "Graduating with Honors" may mean different things. One form of this, called Latin honors, reflects academic success as evidenced by a high Baylor GPA at graduation. Latin Honors can be earned by all Baylor undergraduates regardless of their participation in the Honors College. The breakdown for Latin honors is as follows: Cum Laude: 3.75 Magna Cum Laude: 3.85 Summa Cum Laude: 3.95 Students who successfully complete the Honors Program sometimes also speak of graduating with Honors. More precisely, those students will be recognized as "Honors Program graduates" on their diploma and transcript after having completed all the requirements of the Honors Program. BACK TO TOP Honors College Programs 1. Is the Honors College the same thing as the Honors Program? No, the Honors Program is one of four programs within the Honors College. The others are the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC), the Great Texts Program (GTX), and the University Scholars Program (UNSC). 2. Can a student be enrolled in more than one Honors College program? Yes, depending on the program or major, is possible to integrate multiple programs into one degree plan. As a variation of the university’s core program, BIC can be combined with all other Honors College Programs. The Honors Program is a supplementary plan open to all majors, including Great Texts. University Scholars are already part of the Honors Program, but can choose to opt into BIC or Great Texts. University Scholars students are part of the Honors Program but can opt to include BIC or Great Texts into their degree plan. 3. How do the Honors Program and the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core work together? The Honors Program and the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) are complementary, allowing students to enroll in both (which many of our students do). View “How the Honors Program & BIC Work Together.” 4. Is there a one-page overview of the four different Honors College programs? Yes: “Academic Programs of the Honors College.” 5. Whom should I contact to learn more about the Honors College and its programs? Baylor Interdisciplinary Core - BIC FAQ - BIC@baylor.edu - (254)-710-3981 University Scholars - University_Scholars@baylor.edu - (254)-710-3744 Great Texts - GTX FAQ - GTX@baylor.edu - (254)-710-7251 Honors Program - HP@baylor.edu - (254)-710-1119 Honors Residential College - HRC FAQ - HRC@baylor.edu - (254)-710-7826 BACK TO TOP Housing 1. What is the deadline to apply to reside in the HRC? The priority deadline for students wishing to live in the HRC is May 1. To begin the application process, click here. 2. Do all Honors College students live in the Honors Residential College (HRC)? No, but it is a highly desirable place to live for Honors College students. Given the close interaction with distinguished faculty, the distinct privilege to live among peers who cherish learning and growing, on-site lectures by world-renowned speakers, and the never-ending opportunities to fellowship and create close bonds with mentors and students alike. 3. Why should I consider living in the HRC? Hear first-hand from our Faculty Steward and current HRC students. 4. How many students reside in the HRC? The HRC is comprised of Memorial and Alexander Halls. The HRC houses 300+ honors students. 5. How many incoming students are accepted to reside in the HRC each year? The number of acceptances varies depending on the number of current residents who re-apply. 6. What makes the HRC unique to other residence halls or on-campus communities? The HRC is one of three residential colleges on campus; it is the only community specifically designed with honors students in mind. Modeled after the college systems of Oxford and Cambridge in England, the HRC emphasizes student and staff faculty involvement within the community, special programs and lectures offered to its residents, as well as greater attention to the holistic formation of students. BACK TO TOP Orientation 1. What is Orientation, and is it mandatory to attend? Orientation is a two-day program that is essential for all incoming and transfer students. During orientation, students meet with an advisor to discuss degree plans and register for classes, but there is so much more. It is an opportunity to explore academics, campus life, and begin developing important relationships with faculty, staff, and students. There are also opportunities to hear important information and have all of your questions answered. Baylor Orientation Orientation Dates 2. What is Honors Line Camp and is it mandatory to attend? Incoming honors students are invited to attend Honors Line Camp, a four-day summer camp in which they will meet other honors students, partake in well-loved Baylor traditions, and engage in community and friendship-building experiences. Line Camp is not mandatory but recommended. Line Camp can also be combined with Orientation. For more information, click here. More Information: https://www.baylor.edu/nsp/index.php?id=956477 BACK TO TOP Scholarships 1. How much does Baylor cost? Baylor’s Cost of Attendance is approximately $64,000 (Fall 2020). However, there are a lot of opportunities to bring the cost down, including scholarships that are exclusive to the Honors College. For more information about Honors College scholarships, click here. 2. Does the Honors College offer scholarships for incoming/current students? The Honors College offers scholarships for both incoming and current students. For more information about our scholarships, click here. More Information: https://www.baylor.edu/honorscollege/scholarships 3. Does the Honors College provide scholarships for study abroad? Many Honors College students achieve great success in various study abroad programs. For more information about study abroad programs that Honors College students have enjoyed, click here. The Honors College offers scholarships to help defray the cost of studying abroad. Applications are reviewed on the basis of need and merit. For more information about Honors College study abroad scholarships and additional study abroad scholarship resources, click here. 4. If students do not receive a scholarship in their freshman year, can they re-apply in latter semesters? Yes, students who are not recipients of Honors College scholarships in their freshman year are eligible to re-apply in latter application cycles as current students. Students can re-apply for Honors College scholarships for as many years as they attend Baylor as an undergraduate using our current student application. 5. Where do students apply for Honors College scholarships? The Honors College scholarship page describes the scholarship application process and information for applicants. CLICK HERE to learn more about incoming student scholarships. BACK TO TOP About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Honors College Contact Us ApplyVisitMake a GiftBaylor Interdisciplinary CoreGreat TextsHonors Residential CollegeHonors ProgramUniversity Scholars General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give