Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Documentary Arts and Visual Research PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Documentary Arts and Visual Research PhD Apply Request More Info Documentary Arts and Visual Research PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Documentary Arts and Visual Research PhD The Documentary Arts and Visual Research PhD in Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts offers students with an MFA in Film and Media Arts the opportunity to pursue a defined research agenda for doctoral work. Part of the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts’ dual degree program, this doctoral program helps you form practical and theoretical expertise to critically examine perspectives and topics relevant to alternative and traditional forms of cinematic arts. You’ll apply the technological artistry skills developed in the MFA program to create visual research projects and posit research questions related to documentary arts. The integrative curriculum is designed to give you the experience necessary to lead research in academia, cultural institutions and foundations, documentary production, emerging media technologies, and research institutions. Through coursework that facilitates applied and creative research approaches, students work with experienced, interdisciplinary faculty to investigate and answer questions of the technological age. You’ll develop an understanding of how media technologies have shaped paradigms of cultural and political organization, as well as cognitive, personal and physical self-understanding. The Documentary Arts and Visual Research PhD is part of the Film and Media Arts Department’s dual degree program. Students who have earned an MFA in Film and Media Arts are eligible for the Documentary Arts and Visual Research PhD. As part of the three-year, full-time doctoral program, you’ll select an interdisciplinary elective in diverse fields such as as anthropology, geography, media studies, humanities and visual ethnography, for a comprehensive, in-depth research experience in the evolving world of visual media. Upon completion of the required courses and electives, students work with advisors to complete a final dissertation. Classes & Curriculum The 37-credit program is designed to be completed in three years on a full-time basis. Coursework is tailored to give you opportunities to critically examine research questions based in analysis, field-based research and history of nonfictional forms in emerging technologies, film and media arts. Required courses include Art-Culture-Technology Seminar, Documentary Arts and Visual Research, and Film History and Theory. Available electives include Approaches in the Anthropology of Visual Communication; Media Arts Theory and Practice; Seminar: Problems, Period, Style; and Time-Image Arts. All doctoral candidates research and create a final dissertation project, which must employ the latest visualization technologies. Learn more about requirements for the Documentary Arts and Visual Research PhD program. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Students in the Film and Media Arts Department’s graduate program are advised by their area head. All students are reviewed each semester by their mentors to discuss progress and registrations. The department administrators register all graduate students for their courses. Contact Roderick Coover, professor in the Film and Media Arts Department, is the advisor and director of the Documentary Arts and Visual Research PhD. Phone: 215-204-3859 Email: roderick.coover@temple.edu Program Contact Roderick Coover, professor in the Film and Media Arts Department, is the program contact for the Documentary Arts and Visual Research PhD. Phone: 215-204-3859 Email: rcoover@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations give you the opportunity to gain stage performance or production experience, express yourself without classroom restrictions, and network with other film and theater professionals. In addition, you can make friends and enhance your social life. Consider joining one or more of the following clubs. Delta Kappa Alpha is a selective national organization whose mission is to foster lifelong character, collaborative and creative storytelling, ethical and productive business practices, philanthropic action, and fraternal bonds by and between students of the cinematic arts. Film in Color is an organization geared toward creating a welcoming space for students of color within Temple’s Film Department, affording the opportunity to come together to create, discuss, learn from and network with one another. The Greater Philadelphia Film Office Next connects Philadelphia-area students, recent graduates and rising content creators with industry leaders. Mise-en-Femme is a production organization aimed at encouraging women to work together to gain knowledge and hands-on experience in the art of filmmaking. They also run Temple Women’s Fest, which is a showcase of the efforts of some of the most influential female filmmakers. The Queer Film Collective’s mission is to empower queer filmmakers and explore queer film both in theory and practice. Both queer and straight students are welcome to join. Temple Film Collective is a group of Temple student independent filmmakers who produce their own films and host an online film festival. The University Media Screening Society meets once a week to screen a film from Temple's Media Library. Sometimes, screenings are substituted with special events. Wandering Studios is a student film organization focused on helping students create short films throughout the semester. Learn more about Film and Media Arts student clubs and organizations. Study Away Graduate students, who can find the time within their programs to participate, are welcome to study abroad. Temple offers opportunities to study in Japan, London, Rome and Venice. Students can also opt to spend a semester or summer in Los Angeles. Learn more about Temple’s study away programs. Accreditation The Film and Media Arts program is associated with the University Film and Video Association, an international organization of university and industry professionals working in the field of media production. CA-DAVR-PHD Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Documentary Arts and Visual Research PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info