Jump to navigation Penn Home Residential Services Penn Dining Search About House Life Policies Resources Join Us Contact Us CHAS Utilities Search Penn Home Residential Services Penn Dining About House Life Policies Resources Join Us Contact Us CHAS Utilities Search Penn Home Residential Services Penn Dining CHAS Utilities Join Us Contact Us Policies Resources House Life About About House Life Policies Resources Join Us Contact Us CHAS Utilities Search Penn Home Residential Services Penn Dining About House Life Policies Resources Join Us Contact Us CHAS Utilities Search Penn Home Residential Services Penn Dining CHAS Utilities Join Us Contact Us Policies Resources House Life About The Raices de Borinquen folkloric music and dance group shared the arts and culture of Puerto Rico with Du Bois residents and guests at the House's exhibition of Dr. Sandra Andino's audio-visual documentary The Afro-Latinx Experience: Philadelphia Stories. Photo: Rhina Duquela. Inset: Residents visit the apartment of a House Fellow and enjoy hot espresso. Photo: Adam Weaver. Previous Next The Raices de Borinquen folkloric music and dance group shared the arts and culture of Puerto Rico with Du Bois residents and guests at the House's exhibition of Dr. Sandra Andino's audio-visual documentary The Afro-Latinx Experience: Philadelphia Stories. Photo: Rhina Duquela. Inset: Residents visit the apartment of a House Fellow and enjoy hot espresso. Photo: Adam Weaver. Previous Next College House residents experience the spectrum of musical life in Philly as they take a walking tour of music venues, murals, and city life on Broad Street in Philadelphia with Dr. Molly McGlone, the College of Arts & Science's Assistant Dean for Advising during New Student Orientation. (Photo: Adam Weaver.) Inset: Residents visit treasures at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. (Photo: Mark Stehle.) Previous Next College House residents experience the spectrum of musical life in Philly as they take a walking tour of music venues, murals, and city life on Broad Street in Philadelphia with Dr. Molly McGlone, the College of Arts & Science's Assistant Dean for Advising during New Student Orientation. (Photo: Adam Weaver.) Inset: Residents visit treasures at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. (Photo: Mark Stehle.) Previous Next Eight College Houses sent teams to the College House Cup "Cake Wars" competition held at Kings Court English College House in February 2018, and the results were good enough to eat. Kings Court English's team took "Best in Show" with their House crest-inspired design. Inset: Du Bois College House offers a fun way for residents to get acquainted and stay healthy with their FIT program. A graduate RA serves as director and plans fun events such as skating at Penn's Class of '23 Ice Rink. (Photo: Conrad Erb) Previous Next Eight College Houses sent teams to the College House Cup "Cake Wars" competition held at Kings Court English College House in February 2018, and the results were good enough to eat. Kings Court English's team took "Best in Show" with their House crest-inspired design. Inset: Du Bois College House offers a fun way for residents to get acquainted and stay healthy with their FIT program. A graduate RA serves as director and plans fun events such as skating at Penn's Class of '23 Ice Rink. (Photo: Conrad Erb) Previous Next W.E.B. Du Bois College House celebrated its fiftieth anniversary in 2022 with "Our Family Reunion", featuring speakers and performances. Du Bois College House was established in 1972 as a locus for African American and African scholarship, identity, and activism, and has been home to thousands of Penn students from all races and walks of life since its founding. Inset: Interim President Dr. Wendell Pritchett addresses the crowd at the 50th Anniversary reunion event. Photos: Snap Party Booths, Harleysville, PA. Previous Next W.E.B. Du Bois College House celebrated its fiftieth anniversary in 2022 with "Our Family Reunion", featuring speakers and performances. Du Bois College House was established in 1972 as a locus for African American and African scholarship, identity, and activism, and has been home to thousands of Penn students from all races and walks of life since its founding. Inset: Interim President Dr. Wendell Pritchett addresses the crowd at the 50th Anniversary reunion event. Photos: Snap Party Booths, Harleysville, PA. Previous Next South Asia Studies' Dr. Allyn Miner introduces residents to a new instrument as part of the Blutt College House Music Program, where residents can sign up for music lessons right at home. (Photo: Mark Stehle) Inset: House Director Dr. Krimo Bokreta welcomes 6th graders to Kings Court English College House and teaches them about the green roof, helping root ideas about their educational futures. (Photo: Jill Santos) Previous Next South Asia Studies' Dr. Allyn Miner introduces residents to a new instrument as part of the Blutt College House Music Program, where residents can sign up for music lessons right at home. (Photo: Mark Stehle) Inset: House Director Dr. Krimo Bokreta welcomes 6th graders to Kings Court English College House and teaches them about the green roof, helping root ideas about their educational futures. (Photo: Jill Santos) Previous Next The 2021 staff, faculty and RA teams of College Houses & Academic Services completed training in mid-August 2021 in eager preparation for the fall semester. Inset: Penn President Amy Gutman and the Penn Quaker visit Prof. Mark Liberman, Ware College House Faculty Director, Prof. Helen Davies, Ware College House Fellow, and the RA team at Ware during 2021's move-in. Previous Next The 2021 staff, faculty and RA teams of College Houses & Academic Services completed training in mid-August 2021 in eager preparation for the fall semester. Inset: Penn President Amy Gutman and the Penn Quaker visit Prof. Mark Liberman, Ware College House Faculty Director, Prof. Helen Davies, Ware College House Fellow, and the RA team at Ware during 2021's move-in. Previous Next Students participate in a New Student Orientation event organized by the Black Engineers Society, as they suit up and face off with their new classmates in a game of late-night Laser Tag; in the inset, non-combatants roast marshmallows on the green. This adventure took full advantage of the beautiful wide-open spaces in Hamilton Village, part of the outdoor space managed by the College Houses. Photos: Bryan Karl Lathrop. Previous Next Students participate in a New Student Orientation event organized by the Black Engineers Society, as they suit up and face off with their new classmates in a game of late-night Laser Tag; in the inset, non-combatants roast marshmallows on the green. This adventure took full advantage of the beautiful wide-open spaces in Hamilton Village, part of the outdoor space managed by the College Houses. Photos: Bryan Karl Lathrop. Previous Next THE COLLEGE HOUSES Four-Year Communities Du Bois Gregory Lauder Stouffer First-Year Communities Fisher Hassenfeld Hill Kings Court English Riepe Ware Upperclass Communities Harnwell Harrison Rodin New College House Honorable Mention: 2022 Models of Excellence Penn's 2022 Models of Excellence honorees have been announced, and College Houses & Academic Services was awarded an Honorable Mention for its efforts in "Supporting Penn through COVID-19 and Return to Campus Work". Penn's commemorative video is below, and you can access a keepsake book about all this year's honorees here. Models of Excellence 2022 from Penn Human Resources on Vimeo. Sleep Well at Harnwell Junior Allison Chou was named a 2022 Goldwater Scholar by the Barry Goldwater Scholarship & Excellence in Education Foundation for her work in neuroscience. Along with Harnwell Fellow Prof. Adriana Perez, Allison has organized a series of "Sleep Well" workshops at Harnwell College House, helping Harnwellians learn how to prioritize healthy sleep to improve their wellness and their academic capabilities. You can read more at Penn News and the Daily Pennsylvanian. Harrison RA receives Political Science award Harrison RA Ashley Fuchs was awarded the Philo Bennett Prize for her Political Science honors thesis, "Prison Museums on Trial: The Politics of Remembrance and Reform at Eastern State Penitentiary, Sing Sing Prison Museum, and Angola Museum". The Philo Bennett Prize was established in 1905 by a bequest from Philo Sherman Bennett, and is awarded in recognition of the best thesis on a topic related to American politics and political theory. Congratulations Ashley! Du Bois College House celebrates 50 years of excellence W.E.B. Du Bois College House was founded in 1972 to provide a locus for African American and African identities and academic study, and this year CHAS celebrates its fiftieth anniversary. On Friday, April 1, Du Bois celebrated with a Family Reunion event, and the Daily Pennsylvanian and Penn News were there to cover it. Click to read more from the DP, and click here to read more from Penn News. Download College House Resource Guide CHAS Technology Support About Indoor Space Reservations View On Map Telephone: (215) 898-5551 College Houses on Flickr Visit the College House Websites- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -W.E.B. Du BoisFisher HassenfeldGregoryHarnwellHarrisonHillKings Court EnglishLauderNew College HouseRiepeRodinStoufferWare The College House Websites W.E.B. Du Bois Fisher Hassenfeld Gregory Harnwell Harrison Hill Kings Court English Lauder New College House Riepe Rodin Stouffer Ware Copyright ©2022 Office of College Houses & Academic Services | Privacy | Disclaimer | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help