Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECE Welcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board Academics Courses and Majors Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Outreach Why Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources Research Technical Interest Groups Bioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & Calendar News and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT Home Home Research Technical Interest Groups Computer Systems and Software Computer Systems and Software creates novel computing environments for edge, cloud, and high-performance computing. Designs span low-power, reconfigurable microarchitectures to integrated hardware/software systems to large-scale distributed software and internetworked devices that communicate, learn, and intelligently adapt to the environment. Activities focus on optimizing cross-cutting characteristics, such as power/energy consumption, resiliency, and security. Modern systems of all types rely heavily on software for their operation. Thus, it is becoming essential for all engineering students to be familiar with modern software design and development techniques. In many application areas, hardware is now a commodity and software provides the "value-added" proposition. The computer systems and software faculty in the School of ECE is widely recognized for its expertise and leadership in critical software systems areas such as networks, embedded systems, and computer and network security. Further, the optimization of energy and power has emerged as a driving design constraint in future systems. CSS faculty are engaged in projects that address several key aspects of energy/power management including new memory technologies, novel microarchitectures, and system techniques for use in real-time embedded applications through the data center and scientific computing at the Exascale. Industry and government support for the computer systems and software group's academic and research programs enable students and faculty to remain on the leading edge of technological advances in this dynamic field. Students emerge from the program with an integrated base of knowledge in a broad cross section of computing disciplines, and are highly recruited by the nation's top high tech corporations. Virtually all computer systems and software PhD students receive funding support, either through teaching assistantships or research assistantships. View Faculty members for Computer Systems and Software Research The computer systems and software faculty and graduate students are involved in a broad range of basic and applied research programs, which are supported by government and industry sponsors. Major government sponsors include the National Science Foundation, DARPA, and the Department of Energy. Industrial sponsors include Intel, IBM, HP Labs, NVIDIA, and the Semiconductor Research Corporation. Computer Systems and Software research falls within the following major areas: Computer Architecture Embedded Systems Computer Networks and Internetworking Distributed and Dependable Systems FPGAs and Reconfigurable Computing Computer System and Network Security Hardware/Software Co-design Cloud and Edge Computing Academics At the undergraduate level, the computer systems and software faculty are actively involved in teaching within the Computer Engineering curriculum, and is reflected in the technical interest group's curriculum. Both at the undergraduate and graduate levels, students interested in computer systems and software can pursue coursework spanning a diverse set of topics, ranging from design of integrated hardware/software systems to computer architecture to computer networks and distributed systems. Instructional opportunities also exist for students from other technical areas to gain a basic knowledge of software systems. Last revised October 4, 2021 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook Twitter YouTube © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology