Skip navigation For Alumni For Employers In the Know About Contact LionSHARE Jobs & Internships Jobs Internships Employers We Work With CCE Internship Programs Funding Programs Career Counseling Drop-in Hours Career Counseling Appointments Practice Interviews Programs & Services Career Resources Design Your Next Steps Resumes & CVs Cover Letters Networking Negotiating Interviews Workplace Career Advancement Graduate School Free Premium Resources Career Exploration Majors Industries Arts Business Communications & Media Consulting Education Engineering & Technology Environment & Sustainability Financial Services Government Healthcare International Affairs Law Non-Profits & Social Justice Psychology, Counseling & Social Work Science Sports Startups Student Experiences Career Assessments Connect With Alumni Info For... First-Generation/Low-Income Students International Students Students with Disabilities Veteran Students LGBTQ Students Visiting Students Families Students of Color Women Events Jobs & Internships Jobs Internships Employers We Work With CCE Internship Programs Funding Programs Career Counseling Drop-in Hours Career Counseling Appointments Practice Interviews Programs & Services Career Resources Design Your Next Steps Resumes & CVs Cover Letters Networking Negotiating Interviews Workplace Career Advancement Graduate School Free Premium Resources Career Exploration Majors Industries Student Experiences Career Assessments Connect With Alumni Info For... First-Generation/Low-Income Students International Students Students with Disabilities Veteran Students LGBTQ Students Visiting Students Families Students of Color Women Events Search You are here Home Career Resources Getting a Job On-Campus How to Get a Job On-Campus Webinar Video of How to Get a Job on Campus Webinar There are two types of on campus jobs: federal work-study jobs and casual jobs. Federal Work-Study jobs are only available to U.S. citizens and Permanent Residents who have a financial aid work-study allocation. If you are unsure about your eligibility for work-study, contact the Financial Aid Office for your school. Find and apply for Federal Work-Study positions on The Federal Work-Study (FWS) website. Casual On-Campus jobs are open to any Columbia student, regardless of financial aid package or citizenship. On-Campus Offices That Hire Several offices which may hire students are listed below: Columbia College Information Technology (CCIT) (work-study and casual) - Email resume and cover letter to ccit-jobs@columbia.edu CC/SEAS Tutoring Service (work-study and casual) — Apply online. GS Academic Resource Center - (work-study and casual) - Apply online. Columbia University Department of Public Safety (work-study and casual) - Email resume and cover letter to ps-studentemployment@columbia.edu Columbia University Libraries (work-study and casual) — Apply online. Columbia University Visitors Center (work-study) — The Visitors Center hires students through the work-study program. Apply online Dodge Fitness Center (work-study and casual) — Apply online University Events Management (work-study and casual) - UEM hires students to work events and provide administrative or A/V support. Apply online There is no centralized resource for finding on-campus employment. Contact these and other on-campus offices for job opportunities. Sign up for department emails, check bulletin boards, read websites, ask around, or try walking in. Finding Casual On-Campus Jobs on LionSHARE Search the Center for Career Education LionSHARE Database for Casual On-Campus jobs. In the “job type” filter, choose “On-Campus Student Employment” (you may need to select “View All” in the filter menu to select this option). You may also search for off-campus “part-time” or paid Internship positions through LionSHARE. Please note that all On-Campus Student Employment positions should be posted by a Columbia University or affiliated office. If you find a job posted by a non-Columbia affiliate using this job type search, please notify CCE. Follow-Up After formally applying for opportunities, follow up with the employer to confirm the receipt of your application and reiterate your interest. If you don’t see advertised positions at the office where you want to work, introduce yourself and express interest in future openings. If you want help with application materials, stop by the Center for Career Education walk-in hours (Mon.-Fri. 2pm-4pm) or schedule a meeting with a career counselor. InterviewsJobsNetworkingWorkplace Share This Facebook Twitter Print HTML Design Your Next Steps Design Your Next Steps, CCE’s Career Planner Our “Design Your Next Steps” career planning guide contains everything you need to jump-start your career beyond Columbia. Read it now! Top VISIT US East Campus Building Lower Level 116th & Amsterdam (enter through Wien Courtyard) CALL US (212) 854-5609 Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn OFFICE HOURS Monday-Friday, 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM QUICK QUESTION? Virtual Drop-in Hours offered Monday — Friday from 2 p.m. — 4 p.m. ET during the academic year. ACCESSIBILITY INFORMATION Disability access is available at the southern door of 70-74 Morningside Drive. Ramps provide entrance to the front desk. A sign indicating disability access and Center telephone numbers is posted below the University call box. To ensure the ease of access, it is strongly encouraged that clients call either the front desk at 212-854-5609, Employer and Alumni Relations at 212-854-9167, or visit our Contact Us form prior to arrival. SEARCH JOBS AND INTERNSHIPS To make an appointment, visit LionSHARE. For all inquiries CONTACT US Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York Privacy Policy Notice of Non-Discrimination Terms of Use