HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation ABOUT CSL&E ACCEPTED STUDENTS Welcome Week Orientation Orientation Ambassadors CURRENT STUDENTS Leadership and Service Student Organizations Student Involvement FAMILY PROGRAMS FACULTY & STAFF COMMUNITY MEMBERS Stay Connected Clemson Parent & Family Experience Events Family Orientations Clemson Parent & Family Experience The Center for Student Leadership and Engagement is excited to provide Clemson Parent and Family Experience, a communications portal that is designed to enhance your experience as a family member or supporter of a Clemson student. The Clemson Parent and Family Experience exists to provide you with access to news and information of interest to you as you support your student in their Clemson experience. The Clemson Parent and Family Experience is your hub for: Access to relevant Clemson University news, updates and deadlines Customized newsletters based on your interests and desired frequency Timely announcements from University staff direct to your email Insight into what's happening around campus and with our students Parent and family member emails are automatically imported as their undergraduate student registers for New Student Orientation with Clemson University. After orientation registration is completed, a welcome email with specific instructions on how to complete the registration process for the Clemson Parent and Family Experience will be forwarded to you. For our new parents and families, we have created a community called "2022 Spring Family Orientation". We will post information, articles, and updates about campus activities to support you as you help guide your student in their transition to Clemson campus this spring. If the excitement is mounting and you can't wait for the welcome email, you can create an account and set up your profile today. CLEMSON PARENT and FAMILY EXPERIENCE Once you create an account, you have the ability to personalize newsletters, from content to frequency. You can choose to receive the newsletter digest weekly, bi-weekly, monthly or quarterly.* The online portal also generates news and information specific to you and your student, all based on the personal interests (or communities) you select, such as health, safety and wellness, campus life, info for families of second year students, etc. You can also update your email address or contact information changes via your Clemson Parent and Family Experience profile. * Special announcements will be pushed out on the platform in a timely manner regardless of the frequency you select for the newsletter. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster