Appeals - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services Forms Appeals Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Appeals Late Cancellation and No-Show Policy CAPS charges $25 per person for failing to provide advanced notice when unable to attend an individual counseling session, Single Session Therapy appointment, or couples’ counseling session. If a client provides less than 24-hours notice of his/her scheduled appointment, a $25 fee will be charged to their student account. The fee will appear on the account bill as “Health and Wellness Service Fee” in order to protect your identity as a counseling center client. If the client is not affiliated with UH, they will be asked to pay at their next scheduled appointment. Clients may leave a message on the CAPS voicemail, 713-743-5454, to cancel an appointment; however, this message must be left at least 24 hours before the scheduled appointment. A late cancellation/no show fee will be charged if you: Miss an appointment without notice Cancel or reschedule an appointment less than 24 hours in advance You may appeal the Late cancellation/No show fee by completing a secure online appeal form. Appeal forms must be submitted within 14 days of the missed appointment. A committee will review your appeal request and a response will be sent to your e-mail address within 30 days of the appeal submission. The appeal process is not a guarantee of the reversal of the late cancellation/no-show fee. To cancel or reschedule an appointment, please contact the CAPS front desk at 713-743-5454. If it is after business hours, leave a message on the CAPS voicemail. Please make sure that the request is at least 24 hours in advance of your scheduled appointment to avoid incurring the $25 late cancellation/no-show fee. For questions or concerns please contact the CAPS main office. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies