SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Master of Science in Health Promotion Management Master of Science in Health Promotion Management Jump To A Section Program Meet the Faculty Curriculum Experiential Learning Admissions FAQs Program The SMU Master of Science in Health Promotion Management is a part-time, two-year program of evening classes that will prepare you to build your career. You'll take health promotion courses taught by the Simmons School of Education & Human Development's industry experts along with rigorous management courses at the Cox School of Business so you gain the skills needed to craft large-scale interventions capable of promoting healthy habits that reduce the risks of chronic disease from diabetes to high blood pressure. As health care spending continues to rise, you'll be poised to drive profits as well as change lives. And you'll learn how to do it in Dallas, home to Fortune 500 companies and businesses invested in community and corporate wellness. Meet the Faculty Drawn from SMU’s Cox and Simmons School of Education & Human Development, the Health Promotion Management faculty will help you master the biological, behavioral and epidemiological factors determining health, along with the irrefutable analytics you'll need to make the case for improving corporate wellness. Professors include nationally recognized authorities on organizational behavior, veteran corporate executives and industry consultants. Curriculum The two-year master's program blends courses like financial accounting, managerial finance and organizational leadership from the Cox School of Business with SMU Simmons School of Education & Human Development classes in epidemiology, biostatistics and health promotion programming. The bold mix of topics is designed to give you a competitive edge. Experiential Learning Your internship will set you up with companies, government agencies and nonprofits, and you'll personally plan and evaluate a health promotion program. The result: You’ll graduate with confidence and some priceless connections to launch your career in this burgeoning field. Admissions Applications for the SMU MS in Health Promotion Management are handled by the admissions team at the Simmons School of Education & Human Development. For more information, visit the Simmons School of Education & Human Development web site for Master of Science in Health Promotion Management (MSHPM). FAQs Click here to find answers to frequently asked questions Next Steps Questions? Not sure which program fits your needs? Reach out to our team. Contact Us Get the Brochure SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter