Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Emotional Appeal: How Art Can Inspire Action on Climate Change Climate Emotional Appeal: How Art Can Inspire Action on Climate Change Climate science tells us how the world is changing. Climate art shapes how we choose to respond. By Elise Gout April 20, 2021 In honor of Earth Day on April 22, the Earth Institute has a variety of great stories and events lined up for you throughout the entire month of April. Learn more. Whale Bay, Antarctica No. 4, 2016. Zaria Forman uses soft pastels to recreate undeveloped landscapes that are increasingly at risk due to climate change. “I was looking for something more meaningful to imbue in my work, something that was more than just a pretty picture for somebody’s wall,” she said. Image courtesy of Zaria Forman It was on a trip to Greenland that artist Zaria Forman first grasped the urgency of the climate crisis. She was traveling with her family and, having never been to a polar region before, planned to use the landscape as inspiration for her work. The hotel they were staying at was bustling, not with tourists, but with government officials, newscasters, and scientists — all there to study the Greenland ice sheet. In 2007, most media outlets in the United States weren’t covering climate change. But in the Arctic, a then-record 552 billion tons of ice was melting — the equivalent of eight Olympic swimming pools draining into the ocean every second. Forman remembers speaking with the scientists over dinner about what they were seeing. “It really clicked for me,” she said. “Climate change is one of the largest crises we face as a global society, and there wasn’t a question in my mind that it was what I needed to focus on.” Forman is part of a growing movement of artists using their work to address and convey the magnitude of the climate crisis. Earlier this month, she and several others participated in two panel events hosted by the Earth Institute and Mana Contemporary on how art and science can work together as a vehicle for climate action. Artists as Witnesses The work of these artists, not unlike science itself, takes root in the careful observation of the natural world. “When you draw something, you are forced to examine and re-examine it very closely,” said James Prosek, whose documentation of fish species has taken him from the base of California’s Mount Whitney to the headwaters of the Euphrates River in Turkey. Much of Prosek’s work explores the artificial boundaries that people have constructed to define nature — not only by drawing geographic borders, but also by relying on conventions like taxonomy. Yellowstone, 2021. Prosek’s mural of Yellowstone National Park invokes the styling of an ecological field guide. Traditionally, field guides include numbers beside their visuals so that a user can match species with their names. By silhouetting the habitat without the provision of a key, Prosek denies his viewers that opportunity. Image courtesy of James Prosek “Nature is this interconnected, constantly changing system,” said Prosek, “but in order to communicate it, we have to reduce it. We draw lines between things and label them as pieces.” He explained that while the reduction of nature is a critical part of building knowledge — calling a Gila trout a Gila trout helps differentiate it from an Apache trout — it also creates a tendency for people to lose sight of the larger whole, especially in the face of universal threats like climate change. Art offers a way to challenge that tendency, in part by sharing other representations of the natural world. “My work has always been about giving viewers a chance to experience a place they might not have the chance to visit,” said Forman. Her pastel drawings — so detailed that they are often mistaken for photographs — are like windows cut into the gallery walls, opening out to Earth’s most remote and threatened environments. It is by relaying the beauty of these places that Forman hopes to instill in others the same deep love of landscapes that she has known since childhood. “When you love something, you want to protect it,” she said. Sermeq Kajalleq, Greenland, 2017. In 2016, Forman received an invitation from NASA to fly over Antarctica with the team of Operation IceBridge. Looking out the cockpit window, Forman was able to see the ice in a way she never had before. Image courtesy of Zaria Forman Bridging Fact and Emotion The psychology behind public engagement suggests that the visual narratives provided through art help people process, internalize, and respond to information more effectively than facts alone. By molding their experiences into an opportunity for emotional connection, artists form a keystone between the viewer and the changing climate. Forman first sought to do this through capturing the ice. For artist Jeff Frost, it began with wildfire — or, more accurately, 70 different wildfires over the span of five years. His compilation of this footage, a 25-minute film entitled “California on Fire,” is structured around the five stages of grief: denial, anger, bargaining, sadness, and acceptance. With each one, the intangibility of the climate crisis becomes something familiar — its vastness, personal. To better understand fire weather while shooting, Frost enrolled in firefighter training courses. That’s him on the film poster. “I was standing back to check my camera, and I actually got a pretty good selfie,” he said. Image courtesy of Jeff Frost “My feeling is that if you make art that is trying to be didactic first, it probably won’t be very good art,” said Frost. “I primarily try to connect with people’s hearts and curiosity.” It is a distinction that Caroline Juang knows well, both as an artist herself and a Ph.D. student with Columbia University’s Department of Earth and Environmental Science and the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. Her research involves analyzing the steady increase of burned forest area in the western United States. “Science is there to give the information, to support this idea of climate change,” said Juang. “With Jeff’s film, it’s almost as if your house is burning down, or if your house is not burning down, that you’re the firefighter.” Juang’s digital artwork often imagines inspirational futures made possible through the continued advancement of science. In Pale Blue Dot (2020), a group of civilian astronauts admire the Earth rise over the moon. Image courtesy of Caroline Juang Turning Emotion into Action Frost will be the first to acknowledge that equitably and comprehensively addressing the climate crisis requires structural change. Behind any structural change, however, is the relentless and ongoing effort to demand a better future. “Artists can’t directly make policy,” he said, “but we can help influence other people, including the politicians themselves.” As for what to do upon being inspired by a piece of art, Forman and Frost agree there is no one way to approach climate action. “It’s about figuring out what your sharpest tool is,” said Forman. “When what you do is really coming from the heart — coming from you — then that is where you can move people the most.” Art by Zaria Forman, James Prosek, and Jeff Frost is on display at Mana Contemporary from April 22 to July 22 as part of the exhibition, “Implied Scale: Confronting the Enormity of Climate Change.” To help advance the work of climate scientists and experts working on our most pressing issues, please consider supporting the Earth Institute and Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory today. You can also learn more on our Earth Day website. Tags art climate art climate change climate communication Earth Day Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Sustainable Society News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close