Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Policies and Procedures Home Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Policies and Procedures FERPA Notice of Nondiscrimination Academic Calendar University Policies and Procedures Academic Integrity Policies Undergraduate Academic Regulations Graduate Academic Regulations Distance Education Policies and Procedures Special Programs University Policies and Procedures Print Open All Close All Accreditation of the University Accreditation of the University Since 1935, Boston College has been accredited by the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE). NECHE is recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education as a reliable authority on the quality of education and adheres to the standards of the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. As part of NECHE guidelines, member institutions undergo a peer review process every ten years which involves the preparation of a comprehensive self-study. Boston College’s most recent full review for accreditation occurred in March 2017. Inquiries regarding Boston College’s accreditation status should be directed to the Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties, Boston College, 270 Hammond Street, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 (617-552-3260); individuals may also contact the New England Commission of Higher Education, 3 Burlington Woods Drive, Suite 100, Burlington, MA 01803 (781-425-7785). In addition to NECHE, a variety of schools and programs at Boston College are affiliated with discipline-based accrediting agencies such as: Connell School of Nursing: American Association of Colleges of Nursing, Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education; Carroll School of Management: Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business; Law School: American Bar Association; Boston College School of Social Work: Council on Social Work Education; School of Theology and Ministry: The Association of Theological Schools; Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, Chemistry Department: American Chemical Society; Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Teacher Education, Special Education, and Curriculum and Instruction programs: Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation; Counseling Psychology Programs: American Psychological Association, Masters in Psychology and Counseling Accreditation Council. For distance education, Boston College is an approved member of the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (NC-SARA), and Boston College’s public safety and police department is an accredited program of the Massachusetts Police Accreditation Commission. Annual Notification of Rights Annual Notification of Rights The University Registrar and the Vice President for Student Affairs are responsible for notifying students annually of their rights under FERPA. The annual notice is to appear in the Boston College Bulletin and in the Boston College Student Guide. All non-directory information is considered confidential and will not be released to outside inquiries without the express written consent of the student. Student Rights Under FERPA Boston College maintains a large number of records regarding its students in the administration of its educational programs, as well as its housing, athletics, and extracurricular programs. The University also maintains employment and financial records for its own use and to comply with state and federal regulations. Boston College is committed to protecting the privacy interests of its students and to maintaining the confidentiality of student records in accordance with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA). These rights are as follows: The right to inspect and review the student's education record within 45 days of the day the University receives a request for access. Any student who wishes to inspect and review information contained in an education record maintained by any office of the University may, with proper identification, request access to the record from the office responsible for maintaining that record. Unless the circumstances require the existence of a formal request, an oral request may be honored. Whenever an office responsible for maintaining education records is unable to respond, the student may submit to the Office of Student Services, dean, academic department head, or other appropriate official a written request that identifies the record he or she wishes to inspect. The University official shall provide access within 45 days after the University receives the request, and shall notify the student of the time and place the record may be inspected. If the record is not maintained by the University official to whom the request is submitted, that official is to advise the student of the correct official to whom the request is to be addressed. The right to request the amendment of the student's education record if the student believes that information contained in his or her record is inaccurate, misleading or in violation of his or her rights of privacy. Any student who believes that information contained in his or her education record is inaccurate, misleading, or in violation of his or her rights of privacy is to write to the University official responsible for the record, clearly identifying the part of the record he or she wants changed, and specifying why the record should be amended. If the University concludes that the record should not be amended as requested, the University will notify the student, advise the student of his or her right to a hearing and provide information about the hearing process. The right to consent to the disclosure of personally identifiable information contained in the student's education record, except to the extent permitted under FERPA. One exception that permits disclosure without consent is disclosure to University officials with legitimate educational interests, which may include employees in administrative, supervisory, academic or research, or support staff position (including law enforcement unit personnel and health staff); members of the Board of Trustees; and students serving on an official committees, such as a disciplinary or grievance committees, or assisting another University officials in performing their tasks. University officials may also be contractors, consultants, volunteers or other outside parties to whom the University has outsourced institutional services or functions that would ordinarily be performed by University employees. The University may disclose education records without consent to officials of other educational institutions that have requested the records and in which a student seeks or intends to enroll or is already enrolled so long as the disclosure is for purposes related to the student's enrollment or transfer. The right to file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education concerning alleged failures by the University to comply with the requirements of FERPA. Written complaints may be directed to the Family Policy Compliance Office, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW, Washington, D.C., 20202-4605. Confidentiality of Student Records Certain personally identifiable information from a student's education record, designated by Boston College as directory information, may be released without the student's prior consent. This information includes name; term, home, local, and electronic mail addresses; telephone listing; date and place of birth; photograph; major field of study; enrollment status; grade level; participation in officially recognized activities and sports; weight and height of members of athletic teams; dates of attendance; school/college of enrollment; anticipated date of graduation; degrees and awards received; the most recent previous educational agency or institution attended; and other similar information. Electronic access to selected directory information is available to both the Boston College community and the general public. A student who so wishes has the right to prevent the release of all directory information including verification of enrollment, or to suppress selected directory information at bc.edu/myservices (“Privacy Preferences Confirm/Review).” This must be done by the end of the first week of enrollment. Disclosures to Parents of Students When a student reaches the age of 18, or attends a postsecondary institution regardless of age, FERPA rights transfer to the student. Guidelines for the disclosure of information to parents are as follows: Parents may obtain directory information at the discretion of the institution. Parents may obtain nondirectory information (e.g., grades, GPA) at the discretion of the institution and after it is determined that the student is legally dependent on either parent. Parents may also obtain nondirectory information if they have a signed consent from the student. Certificate of Enrollment Certificate of Enrollment Visit the Certificate of Enrollment page for more information. Certifying enrollment can be done for the following audiences: For current students and employees with access to the Agora Portal For alumni and external audiences, including employers Disability Services Office Disability Services Office The Disability Services Office (DSO) serves undergraduate and graduate students with physical, medical, psychological, and temporary disabilities. The Associate Director works with each student individually to determine the appropriate accommodations necessary for the student’s full participation in college programs and activities. The Associate Director of Student Disability Services also works with university administrators to develop policies and procedures pertinent to students with disabilities while acting as a general referral service on disability issues. All accommodation requests must be submitted by June 1, 2022 to the DSO. This deadline does not apply to the Connors Family Learning Center and students registering for accommodations based on a learning disability or Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). For more information, contact: Office of Student Outreach and Support Services Maloney Hall—Suite 448 140 Commonwealth Ave Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Phone: 617-552-3434 E-mail: disabsrv@bc.edu Services for students with learning disabilities and ADHD, as well as all testing accommodations, are coordinated through the Connors Family Learning Center (CFLC). The CFLC, located in O’Neill Library, provides academic support services and accommodations to undergraduate and graduate students. The CFLC’s services are extensive and vary depending upon the unique needs of the individual student. For more information, contact: Kathleen M. Duggan, Ph.D. Director, Connors Family Learning Center The Connors Family Learning Center (CFLC) Thomas P. O’Neill Jr. Library, Room 200 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Phone: 617.552.8093 E-mail: dugganka@bc.edu Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) Visit the Notices and Disclosures page for information regarding the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). The page enumerates student rights under FERPA. It also contains other notices and disclosures of interest to students and parents. Financial Aid Financial Aid Visit the Financial Aid page for more information about financial aid at Boston College. Immunization Immunization The state of Massachusetts requires that all full-time, part-time Health Sciences, and part-time visa carrying students entering college must submit proof of the following: Tetanus, Diphtheria, Pertussis (Tdap) vaccine one time booster after 6/2005 required for all incoming students. If Booster date is greater or equal to 10 years, a Td vaccine date must also be included. 2 MMR (measles, mumps, rubella) vaccines (these doses must be given at least four weeks apart beginning at or after 12 months of age). Hepatitis B vaccine series (a total of 3 doses at varying intervals). 1 dose of Meningococcal Conjugate Quadrivalent vaccine (MCV 4- A,C,Y,W-135) (Menactra, Menveo or Nimenrix only) for all full time students 21 years of age and younger. The vaccine must be on or after the sixteenth birthday or a signed waiver is acceptable. A reliable history of varicella disease documented by a health care provider or 2 doses of Varicella vaccine. Completion of the Tuberculosis Screening/Testing Form and accompanying testing if needed. If proof of immunization for measles, mumps, rubella, hepatitis B, and/or varicella is not available, a blood titer showing immunity will be accepted. Failure to show proof of immunizations within 30 days from the start of classes will result in a block on your registration and an administrative fee of $85 will be charged to your student account. Important Notices and Disclosures under the HEOA Important Notices and Disclosures under the HEOA Boston College maintains a web page that provides all notices, disclosures, and other information required to be disclosed under the Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA). This web page is available at bc.edu/content/bc-web/offices/executive-vice-president/notices-disclosures.html. This page includes links to disclosures with the following information: Institutional and Student Information, including information regarding the University’s academic programs, facilities, faculty, academic improvement plans, accreditation, student rights with respect to the privacy of student records, transfer of credit policies, resources for students with disabilities, the diversity of the student body, voter registration, copyright and file-sharing, and how to reach the Office of Student Services, which maintains additional resources and information for students and prospective students; Financial Information, including the cost of attendance, withdrawal and refund policies, information regarding financial aid programs (including information about eligibility requirements and criteria, forms, policies, procedures, standards for maintaining aid, disbursements and repayment), student employment information and exit counseling information, and how to reach the Office of Financial Aid; Student Outcomes, including information regarding retention rates, graduation rates, and placement and education of graduates; Health and Safety Information, including the Annual Campus Security and Fire Safety Report which describes the University’s campus safety program policies and includes statistics for the previous three years concerning reported crimes and fires that occurred on campus; the Drug-Free Campus and Workplace Program; and the University’s policies with respect to immunizations required under Massachusetts law; and Athletic Program Information, describing how to request a report about the University’s athletic programs that includes participation rates, financial support, and other information on men’s and women’s intercollegiate athletic programs. Each disclosure explains how you may request a paper copy of the information. Alternatively, you may request paper copies of these disclosures by calling the Office of the Executive Vice President (617) 552-3255 or sending a written request to: Boston College, Office of the Executive Vice President, Botolph House, 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467. Majors and Minors Majors and Minors Visit the Majors and Minors page for more information about the following: Majors Minors Other Degree Programs Massachusetts Medical Insurance Massachusetts Medical Insurance Visit the Medical Insurance page for more information regarding medical insurance at Boston College, including the following: Enrollment Waivers Forms Contacts and Questions Notice of Nondiscrimination Notice of Nondiscrimination Founded by the Society of Jesus in 1863, Boston College is dedicated to intellectual excellence and to its Jesuit, Catholic heritage. Boston College recognizes the essential contribution a diverse community of students, faculty, and staff makes to the advancement of its goals and ideals in an atmosphere of respect for one another and for the University’s mission and heritage. Accordingly, Boston College commits itself to maintaining a welcoming environment for all people and extends its welcome in particular to those who may be vulnerable to discrimination on the basis of their race, color, national origin, sex, religion, disability, age, marital or parental status, sexual orientation, military status, or other legally protected status. Boston College rejects and condemns all forms of harassment, wrongful discrimination, and disrespect. It has developed procedures to respond to incidents of harassment whatever the basis or circumstance. Moreover, it is the policy of Boston College, while reserving its lawful rights where appropriate to take actions designed to promote the Jesuit, Catholic principles that sustain its mission and heritage, to comply with all state and federal laws prohibiting discrimination in employment and in its educational programs and activities on the basis of a person’s race, color, national origin, sex, religion, disability, age, marital or parental status, genetic information or family medical history, or military status, and to comply with state law prohibiting discrimination on the basis of a person's sexual orientation. To this end, Boston College has designated its Associate Vice President for Institutional Diversity to coordinate its efforts to prevent discrimination in accordance with this notice and applicable laws. Individuals are welcome to raise any questions regarding this notice and the requirements of state and federal nondiscrimination laws with the Associate Vice President for Institutional Diversity: Boston College Office for Institutional Diversity (OID) 140 Commonwealth Avenue (Office location: 129 Lake Street) Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Patricia Lowe, Associate Vice President for Institutional Diversity/Title IX Coordinator patricia.lowe@bc.edu Phone: 617-552-3334 Email: TitleIXCoordinator@bc.edu The Associate Vice President for Institutional Diversity oversees the efforts of the following additional Title IX coordinators: (i) Melinda Stoops, Associate Vice President for Student Affairs and Student Affairs Title IX Coordinator (for student sexual harassment complaints), Maloney Hall, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 (617-552-3482); (ii) Linda Riley, University Harassment Counselor, 129 Lake Street, Brighton, MA (617-552-0486); and (iii) Reshauna Cobb, Senior Associate Director Athletics, Internal Operations, 310 Conte Forum, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 (617-552-8303). The following federal laws and regulations require the University not to discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, sex, or age in treatment, employment, admission or access to Boston College and its educational programs and activities: Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Title VI), Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Section 504), Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (Title IX), the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (Age Act), and their respective implementing regulations at 34 C.F.R. Parts 100, 104, 106, and 110. Inquiries concerning the application to Boston College of each of the statutes and implementing regulations outlined above may be referred to the U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights, 5 Post Office Square, 8th Floor, Boston, MA 02109-3921 (617-289-0111). Tuition and Fees Tuition and Fees Visit the Tuition and Fees page for more information on the following: Tuition and fees Laboratory/course fees Tuition refund schedule Veterans Benefits and Transition Act of 2018 Veterans Benefits and Transition Act of 2018 The university will adhere to the requirements of Section 3679 of Title 38 of the Veterans Benefits and Transition Act of 2018 (referred to below as the "Veterans Benefits and Transition Act"). Boston College shall permit any student who is a covered individual ( as defined in Section 3679 of the Veterans Benefits and Transition Act) to attend or participate in the course of education during the period beginning on the date on which such student provides to Boston College a certificate of eligibility for entitlement to educational assistance under chapter 31 or 33 of Title 38 of the Veterans Benefits and Transition Act and ending on the earlier of (i) the date on which the U.S. Secretary of Veterans Affairs provides payment for such course of education to Boston College, or (ii) the date that is 90 days after the date on which Boston College certifies for tuition and fees following receipt from the student such certificate of eligibility. Boston College shall ensure that it will not impose any penalty (including the assessment of late fees, the denial of access to classes, libraries, or other institutional facilities, or the requirement that a covered individual (as defined in Section 3679 of the Veterans Benefits and Transition Act) borrow additional funds) on any student who is a covered individual because of such student's inability to meet his or her financial obligations to Boston College due to the delayed disbursement of a payment to be provided by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under chapter 31 or 33 of Title 38 of the Veterans Benefits and Transition Act. The University reserves the right to deny access to services or impose additional fees in accordance with University policy on the difference between the amount of the student's financial obligation and the amount of the VA education benefit disbursement if not paid by the student by the required due dates. Academic Integrity Policies Print Open All Close All Academic Integrity (Undergraduate) Academic Integrity (Undergraduate) Policy and Procedures The pursuit of knowledge can proceed only when scholars take responsibility and receive credit for their own work. Recognition of individual contributions to knowledge and of the intellectual property of others builds trust within the University and encourages the sharing of ideas that is essential to scholarship. Similarly, the educational process requires that individuals present their own ideas and insights for evaluation, critique, and eventual reformulation. Presentation of others' work as one's own is not only intellectual dishonesty, but it also undermines the educational process. Standards Academic integrity is violated by any dishonest act which is committed in an academic context including, but not restricted to, the following: Cheating is the fraudulent or dishonest presentation of work. Cheating includes but is not limited to: the use or attempted use of unauthorized aids in examinations or other academic exercises submitted for evaluation; fabrication, falsification, or misrepresentation of data, results, sources for papers or reports, or in clinical practice, as in reporting experiments, measurements, statistical analyses, tests, or other studies never performed; manipulating or altering data or other manifestations of research to achieve a desired result; selective reporting, including the deliberate suppression of conflicting or unwanted data; falsification of papers, official records, or reports; copying from another student's work; actions that destroy or alter the work of another student; unauthorized cooperation in completing assignments or during an examination; the use of purchased essays or term papers, or of purchased preparatory research for such papers; submission of the same written work in more than one course without prior written approval from the instructors involved; dishonesty in requests for make-up exams, for extensions of deadlines for submitting papers, and in any other matter relating to a course. Plagiarism is the act of taking the words, ideas, data, illustrations, or statements of another person or source, and presenting them as one's own. Each student is responsible for learning and using proper methods of paraphrasing and footnoting, quotation, and other forms of citation, to ensure that the original author, speaker, illustrator, or source of the material used is clearly acknowledged. Other breaches of academic integrity include: the misrepresentation of one's own or another's identity for academic purposes; the misrepresentation of material facts or circumstances in relation to examinations, papers, or other evaluative activities; the sale of papers, essays, or research for fraudulent use; the alteration or falsification of official University records; the unauthorized use of University academic facilities or equipment, including computer accounts and files; the unauthorized recording, sale, purchase, or use of academic lectures, academic computer software, or other instructional materials; the expropriation or abuse of ideas and preliminary data obtained during the process of editorial or peer review of work submitted to journals, or in proposals for funding by agency panels or by internal University committees; the expropriation and/or inappropriate dissemination of personally-identifying human subject data; the unauthorized removal, mutilation, or deliberate concealment of materials in University libraries, media, or academic resource centers. Collusion is defined as assistance or an attempt to assist another student in an act of academic dishonesty. Collusion is distinct from collaborative learning, which may be a valuable component of students' scholarly development. Acceptable levels of collaboration vary in different courses, and students are expected to consult with their instructor if they are uncertain whether their cooperative activities are acceptable. Promoting Academic Integrity: Roles of Community Members Student Roles in Maintaining Academic Integrity Students have a responsibility to maintain high standards of academic integrity in their own work and thereby to maintain the integrity of their degree. It is their responsibility to be familiar with, and understand, the University policy on academic integrity. Students who become aware of a violation of academic integrity by a fellow student should respond in one of the following ways: Students may discuss their concerns with the student whom they suspect of a violation. Direct contact by another student may be the best means of resolving the problem. Repeated demonstration of student concern for academic integrity will, in the long run, build a peer-regulated community. If the incident is a major violation or part of a repeated pattern of violations, students should bring their concerns to the attention of the instructor or to the appropriate department chairperson or associate dean. Suspected violations by students reported to members of the faculty or to an associate dean will be handled according to the procedures set forth below. Students who have serious concern that a faculty member is not living up to his or her responsibility to safeguard and promote academic integrity should speak with the faculty member directly, or should bring their concern to the attention of the department chairperson or associate dean. Faculty Roles in Fostering Academic Integrity Faculty members should provide students with a positive environment for learning and intellectual growth and, by their words and actions, promote conditions that foster academic integrity. Faculty should be concerned about the impact of their behavior on students. Students are sensitive to messages communicated in informal discussions and in casual faculty remarks about personal decisions and value judgments. Students are perhaps most sensitive to how responsibly faculty members fulfill their obligations to them in the careful preparation of classes, in the serious evaluation of student achievement, and in their genuine interest in and availability to students. Faculty should promote academic integrity in the following specific ways: At the beginning of each course, instructors should discuss academic integrity in order to promote an ongoing dialogue about academic integrity and to set the tone and establish guidelines for academic integrity within the context of the course, e.g., the extent to which collaborative work is appropriate. Where relevant, instructors should discuss why, when, and how students must cite sources in their written work. Instructors should provide students with a written syllabus that states course requirements and, when available, examination dates and times. Instructors are encouraged to prepare new examinations and assignments where appropriate each semester in order to ensure that no student obtains an unfair advantage over his or her classmates by reviewing exams or assignments from prior semesters. If previous examinations are available to some students, faculty members should insure that all students in the course have similar access. Course examinations should be designed to minimize the possibility of cheating, and course paper assignments should be designed to minimize the possibility of plagiarism. Proctors should be present at all examinations, including the final examination, and should provide students with an environment that encourages honesty and prevents dishonesty. Faculty should be careful to respect students' intellectual property and the confidentiality of student academic information. Assignment of grades, which is the sole responsibility of the instructor, should be awarded in a manner fair to all students. Academic Deans Academic deans have overall responsibility for academic integrity within their schools. In particular, deans' responsibilities include the following: promoting an environment where academic integrity is a priority for both students and faculty, ensuring that students who are honest are not placed at an unfair disadvantage, and establishing procedures to adjudicate charges of academic dishonesty and to protect the rights of all parties. Procedures In each school a Committee on Academic Integrity with both faculty and student members is to be constituted annually. When a faculty member determines that a student's work violates the standards of academic integrity, the faculty member is encouraged to discuss the matter with the student, but in any case the faculty member should notify the student of the substance of the violation and the action that the faculty member proposes to take. If the faculty member decides to impose a grading penalty, a letter of notification describing the incident and the proposed grading penalty is to be sent to the associate dean of the school or college in which the course is taught. On receipt of such a notification, the associate dean will notify the student of the allegation and the evidence. The student’s class dean will also be notified, if the course is outside of the student’s home school or college. The student will be given an opportunity to respond to the allegation in writing. While a case is pending, the student may not withdraw from or change status in the course. Each reported violation of the standards of academic integrity will be reviewed by the Committee on Academic Integrity of the school or college of the course. This will ensure that in cases involving students from more than one school, or students in joint or dual degree programs, the process and penalty will be consistent. A board chosen by the chairperson of the Committee on Academic Integrity from the full Committee will be assigned to each case, with one of the faculty members as chairperson of the review board. The associate dean to whom the case has been reported will serve as a non-voting administrative resource. For cases that are reported in summer courses, the associate dean of the school in which the course is taught will decide the case. The associate dean will convey to the faculty member and the student the board's findings as to responsibility and recommended sanctions. The associate dean will compile a complete file of each case. After notifying the student’s class dean of the final resolution of the case, the file will be kept confidential in the Dean's office. Files on students found not responsible will be destroyed. Penalties for students found responsible for violations will depend upon the seriousness and circumstances of the violation, the degree of premeditation involved, and the student's previous record of violations. The committee may simply affirm the faculty member's penalty and issue the student a "warning," which will be kept in a confidential file in the student’s Dean's Office until the student graduates and will not be reportable to professional schools or outside agencies; or it may recommend a different grading penalty and/or impose additional administrative penalties. Such penalties may include university probation, suspension, or expulsion, all of which become part of a student's academic record and are reportable to graduate/professional schools and outside agencies. Appeal of the board's decision may be made by written request to the Dean of the school or college of the course not later than ten days following notice of the board's decision. The decision of the Dean will be final. Academic Integrity (Graduate) Academic Integrity (Graduate) GSAS Academic Integrity Procedures Students in the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences are expected to have high standards of integrity and abide by the University's Academic Integrity Policy. Any student who cheats or plagiarizes on examinations or assignments may be subject to dismissal from GSAS. A Committee on Academic Integrity with both faculty and student members is to be constituted annually. When a faculty member determines that a student's work violates the standards of academic integrity, the faculty member is encouraged to discuss the matter with the student, but in any case, the faculty member should notify the student of the substance of the violation and the action that the faculty member proposes to take. If the faculty member decides to impose a grading penalty, a letter of notification describing the incident and the proposed grading penalty is to be sent to the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs. On receipt of such a notification, the associate dean will notify the student of the allegation and the grading penalty proposed by the faculty member. The student will be given an opportunity to respond to the faculty member's notification in writing. While a case is pending, the student may not withdraw from or change status in the course. Each reported violation of the standards of academic integrity will be reviewed by the Committee on Academic Integrity of the student's school. In cases involving students from more than one school, or students in joint or dual degree programs, the Committees on Academic Integrity of the pertinent schools will cooperate in their review. The faculty member bringing the accusation and the student will be notified that the case is under review by the Academic Integrity Committee. The student will be given an opportunity to respond to the faculty member's notification letter in writing. The committee at its discretion may interview any individual with knowledge pertinent to the case. The associate dean will serve as a non-voting administrative resource and will maintain the committee's record of notifications and relevant materials. The committee will decide a case by simple majority vote, and the associate dean will convey to the faculty member and the student the committee's findings as to responsibility and recommended sanctions. The associate dean will compile a complete file of each case, to be kept confidential in the dean's office. Files on students found not responsible will be destroyed. Penalties for students found responsible for violations will depend upon the seriousness and circumstances of the violation, the degree of premeditation involved, and the student's previous record of violations. The committee may simply affirm the faculty member's penalty and issue the student a "warning," which will be kept in a confidential file in the dean's office until the student graduates and will not be reportable to professional schools or outside agencies; or it may recommend a different grading penalty and/or impose additional administrative penalties. Such penalties may include university probation, suspension or expulsion, all of which become part of a student's academic record and are reportable to graduate/professional schools and outside agencies. Appeal of the committee's decision may be made by written request to the dean of the school no later than 10 days following notice of the committee's decision, and the dean's decision will be final. Cases of falsification, fabrication, and plagiarism that occur in the course of research are also subject to Boston College's research misconduct policy, which can be found at bc.edu/bc-web/research/sites/vice-provost-for-research/integrity-and-compliance/research-misconduct.html. Undergraduate Academic Regulations Print Open All Close All Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Admission Admission Information Founded by the Society of Jesus in 1863, Boston College is dedicated to intellectual excellence and to its Jesuit, Catholic heritage. Boston College recognizes the essential contribution a diverse community of students, faculty, and staff makes to the advancement of its goals and ideals in an atmosphere of respect for one another and for the University’s mission and heritage. Accordingly, Boston College commits itself to maintaining a welcoming environment for all people and extends its welcome in particular to those who may be vulnerable to discrimination on the basis of their race, ethnic or national origin, religion, color, age, gender, marital or parental status, veteran status, disabilities, or sexual orientation. Boston College seeks to maintain an undergraduate student body that represents a broad variety of abilities, backgrounds, and interests. Therefore, in selecting students, the Committee on Admission looks for demonstrated evidence of academic ability, intellectual curiosity, strength of character, motivation, energy, and promise for personal growth and development. Requests for financial aid do not affect decisions on admission. The Undergraduate Admission website provides further details on the application requirements and deadlines. Admission from Secondary School While specific courses are not required, the Office of Undergraduate Admission recommends that students pursue a strong college preparatory program that includes four units of English, mathematics, social studies, and foreign language, as well as four units of a natural science. Such a program provides a solid foundation for high quality college work, as well as a stronger application in a highly selective admission process. Standardized Testing The SAT or The American College Test (ACT) *For applicants to BC’s classes of 2026 and 2027, submission of SAT or ACT standardized test scores is optional. International students who speak English as a second language must still prove English language proficiency. All submitted standardized test results are used in the admission process. Applicants are required to take all standardized tests no later than the October administration date of their senior year for Early Decision and by December of their senior year for Regular Decision. The Committee on Admission will select the best combination of individual section scores when evaluating an application. International students for whom English is not their primary native language are required to submit scores from the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), the International English Language Testing System (IELTS), or the DuoLingo English Test (DET). Students who score 650 or above in the SAT EBRW or 29 or better on the ACT English section may have this requirement waived. Application Procedures Regular Freshman Admission Students applying to Boston College should submit the Common Application, the Boston College Writing Supplement and an $80 application fee no later than January 1. Both the Common Application and Boston College Writing Supplement are available on the Common Application website. Candidates are notified of action taken on their applications no later than April 1. Early Decision Early Decision I and II are binding programs for candidates who view Boston College as their unequivocal top choice institution. If admitted to Boston College through Early Decision, candidates must immediately withdraw applications to other institutions and enroll at Boston College. Students are required to submit an Enrollment Confirmation Fee to Boston College within ten days of receiving their admission offer. Competitive Early Decision candidates present academic credentials, extracurricular engagement, and personal qualities that fit the profile of currently enrolled Boston College students. Because Early Decision attracts a small, but competitive pool of candidates, the acceptance rate will be higher at Early Decision. Completed Early Decision I applications and the Common Application Early Decision Agreement form must be submitted no later than November 1 for consideration. Candidates will learn of the Admission Committee's decision by December 15. Early Decision II applications are due by January 1 and candidates will learn of the Admission Committee's decision by February 15. Applying to an Undergraduate Division All applicants must designate to which of the four undergraduate divisions they are making their application: Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, Carroll School of Management, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, or Connell School of Nursing. Students are only considered for admission to the division to which they applied. Students may not change divisions following admission, but may be eligible to apply for an internal transfer to a new division after: one semester for those seeking a transfer to Morrissey or Lynch and two semesters to Connell or Carroll. Transferring internally is not guaranteed and selectivity varies by division; interested students should complete the Internal Transfer Form found on the Academic Forms page. International Student Admission International students are expected to submit the same credentials (transcripts, recommendations, standardized tests, etc.) as domestic applicants. All documents should be submitted in English. If the credentials must be translated, the original must be submitted along with the translation. All international students whose native language is not English are required to take the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) exam, the International English Language Testing System (IELTS), or the DuoLingo English Test (DET). Minimum scores of 100 on the TOEFL iBT, 7.5 on the IELTS, or 125 on the DET are recommended. Students applying from British systems must be enrolled in an A Level program to be considered. Transfer Admission Transfer admission applications are available to students who have successfully completed three or more transferable courses (9 credits minimally) at a regionally accredited college or university. Transfer students must have a minimum cumulative grade point average of 3.0 to be considered for admission. Competitive applicants typically have above a 3.5 cumulative grade point average. Students are encouraged to finish one full year of studies before seeking admission-in-transfer. Because a record of college achievement would not be available at the time of consideration, first semester freshmen may not apply for admission to the term beginning in January. All candidates for transfer admission should submit the Transfer Common Application and all other required forms along with the $80 application fee. All portions of the Transfer Application can be found on the transfer website at bc.edu/transfer. NOTE: An Academic and Disciplinary Report must be submitted for every undergraduate institution attended full-time by the applicant. Additional copies of this form may be obtained from the Common Application website. All supporting documents must be sent directly to the Boston College Office of Undergraduate Admission by the sending institution. Transcripts issued to students and photocopies will not be accepted. The deadline for submitting applications is March 15 for the fall and November 1 for the spring. Fall candidates will be notified of action taken on their applications no later than May 20. Spring candidates will be notified no later than December 15. Please consult the transfer admission website for additional information about transfer policies. Transfer of Credit Boston College transfer credit policies are established by the Deans and Faculty of each undergraduate division. Course evaluations are completed by the Office of Transfer Admission. Any questions regarding the evaluation of courses, either before or after enrollment, should be directed to the Office of Transfer Admission. At Boston College, transfer credit is established on a course-by-course basis. Transferable courses must have been completed at regionally accredited colleges or universities and must be similar in content, depth, and breadth to courses taught at Boston College. In addition, a minimum grade of C- must have been earned. Boston College students must complete the following number of credit hours for graduation: Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences—120, Carroll School of Management—120, Lynch School of Education and Human Development—120, and Connell School of Nursing—117. A maximum of 60 credit hours will be allowed in transfer. The unit of credit at Boston College is the semester hour. Most courses earn 3 semester hours of credit. Lab sciences usually earn 4 semester hours of credit. No credit will be granted for internships, field experiences, practica, or independent study. Applicants seeking to have online courses accepted in transfer by Boston College should submit a syllabus for each course, including information about contact hours and exam requirements. Grade point averages do not transfer with students. A new grade point average begins with the commencement of a student's career at the University and reflects only work completed as a full-time undergraduate at Boston College. For transfer students, courses taken during the summer prior to enrollment at Boston College should be approved in advance by the Office of Transfer Admission to avoid difficulty in the transfer of credits. For all incoming freshmen and currently enrolled students, all summer courses must be approved in advance by the appropriate deans. College credit courses taken in high school with high school teachers and other high school students cannot be used for credit. These courses may be assigned advanced placement units only if a corresponding College Board AP exam is taken and a qualifying score is earned. Date of Graduation All undergraduate students are expected to spend four years enrolled as full-time students in order to earn a bachelor's degree. Students generally may not accelerate the date of graduation stated in the acceptance letter, with the following exception: students who enter Boston College after three or four semesters at a school where the normal credit requirements are less than those at Boston College and who experience a loss of one semester in their status as a result. If students have attended only one school prior to Boston College and the loss of status is due solely to differences between academic systems, students will be allowed to make up their status and graduate with their class. A transfer student's date of graduation is determined by the number of credits accepted in transfer and the number of Boston College semesters these satisfy. The normal academic load for undergraduates is five 3- or 4-credit courses per semester. Thus, students are expected to have completed 30 credits at the end of one year, 45 at the end of a year and a half, and 60 credits at the end of two years. In determining a transfer student's date of graduation, leeway of 6 credits is allowed without loss of status. For example, students completing 24–30 credits are accepted as first-semester sophomores. Residency Requirement The requirements for the bachelor's degree generally include a minimum of eight semesters of full‑time enrollment, at least four semesters of which must be at Boston College. Transfer students may need more than eight semesters in total in order to complete all the university’s degree requirements. As long as transfer students abide by all relevant University academic regulations, including at least four semesters at Boston College, they may seek to regain their original graduation-year status through course overloads and summer courses. In such cases, transfer students will not incur additional tuition charges for course overloads. Transfer students who seek to regain their original graduation date should consult with their associate dean to confirm that they are eligible to do so. Special Students Only those persons who wish to be enrolled as full-time day students are admitted by the Office of Undergraduate Admission. All other students wishing to attend Boston College on a part-time basis, for either day or evening classes, should contact the Dean of the James A. Woods, S.J., College of Advancing Studies, St. Mary’s Hall South, Ground Floor, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467. Advanced Placement Units There are a number of ways to earn advanced placement units at Boston College including qualifying scores on College Board Advanced Placement (AP) exams, International Baccalaureate exams, British A Level exams, French Baccalaureate exams, as well as results from the German Abitur, and the Swiss Maturité and Italian Maturità. Official results from all testing should be sent to the Office of Transfer Admission for evaluation. Qualifying scores will be assigned advanced placement units as detailed at bc.edu/advancedplacement. College Courses Taken During High School Advanced placement units can be earned for college courses taken during high school. For more information, visit bc.edu/advancedplacement. Language Proficiency Requirements Refer to the Language Proficiency Requirements section below. Introductory Note on Academic Regulations Introductory Note on Academic Regulations Academic Regulations are effective from September of the current academic year (2022–2023) except where a different date is explicitly stated. If there have been changes in the Academic Regulations and degree requirements since a student readmitted after sustained leave was last enrolled, the Academic Regulations in effect at the time of the student's readmission to full-time study will apply, unless the Academic Dean specifies otherwise in writing at the time of readmission. Academic Grievances Academic Grievances Any student who believes he or she has been treated unfairly in academic matters should consult with the chairperson of the undergraduate or graduate department or his or her Academic Dean to discuss the situation and to obtain information about relevant grievance procedures. Academic Record Academic Record A record of each student's academic work is prepared and maintained permanently by the Office of Student Services. While cumulative averages for academic majors are made available to undergraduate students who are currently enrolled, these averages are not maintained as part of a student's academic record. The student's semester averages and final overall cumulative average appear on the academic record. Student academic records are sealed at the time the degree is conferred. After this date changes may not be made, with the exception of errors or omissions. Attendance Attendance Students are expected to attend classes regularly, take tests, and submit papers and other work at the times specified by the professor on the course syllabus. Students who are absent repeatedly from class or practica will be evaluated by faculty responsible for the course to ascertain their ability to achieve the course objectives and to continue in the course. Professors may include, as part of the semester's grades, marks for the quality and quantity of the student's participation in class. Professors will announce, reasonably well in advance, tests and examinations based on material covered in class lectures and discussions, as well as other assigned material. A student who is absent from class on the day of a previously announced examination, including the final examination, is not entitled, as a matter of right, to make up what was missed. The professor involved is free to decide whether a make-up will be allowed. A student who is absent from class is responsible for obtaining knowledge of what happened in class, especially information about announced tests, papers, or other assignments. In cases of prolonged absence, the student or a family member should communicate with the student's Academic Dean as soon as the prospect of extended absence becomes clear. The academic arrangements for the student's return to classes should be made with the Academic Dean's Office as soon as the student's health and other circumstances permit. Absences for Religious Reasons Any student who is unable, because of his or her religious beliefs, to attend classes or to participate in any examination, study, or work requirement on a particular day shall be excused from any such examination, or study or work requirement, and shall be provided with an opportunity to make up such examination, or study or work requirement, that may have been missed because of such absence on any particular day. However, students should notify professors at the end of the first class meeting or at least two weeks in advance of any such planned observances, and such makeup examination or work shall not create an unreasonable burden upon the University. No fees will be charged and no adverse or prejudicial effects shall result to any student who is absent for religious reasons. Audits Audits Undergraduate students may not audit a course with the exception of undergraduates in the Woods College of Advancing Studies. Core Curriculum—Undergraduate University Core Requirements Core Curriculum—Undergraduate University Core Requirements The following course requirements comprise the Core Curriculum and are required for all students at Boston College in order to graduate. All Core courses must be 3 credits or more and cannot be taken pass/fail. 1 course in the Arts—Art, Art History, Film, Music, Theatre 1 course in Cultural Diversity—Unlike other Core requirements, Cultural Diversity may be fulfilled by a course above the Core level. It may simultaneously fulfill another requirement of the Core, a major, or minor. A number of Difference, Justice, and the Common Good in the United States and Engaging Difference and Justice courses satisfy the Cultural Diversity requirement, and can be found here: bc.edu/core. Lynch students will take APSY1031. The CSON curriculum satisfies the Cultural Diversity requirement. 2 courses in History—one course pre-1800 (History I) and one post-1800 (History II) 1 course in Literature—Classical Studies, English, Romance Languages and Literatures, Eastern, German and Slavic Studies. 1 course in Mathematics—For CSOM students, one semester of Calculus (MATH1100 or higher) is required, and beginning with the class of 2022, CSOM students may take any course approved for Mathematics Core credit. For CSON students, MATH1180 Principles of Statistics for Health Sciences is the required Mathematics Core course. 2 courses in Natural Sciences—Biology, Chemistry, Earth and Environmental Sciences, Physics, Environmental Studies. 2 courses in Philosophy––one of each: Philosophy I and Philosophy II. 2 courses in Social Sciences— Sociology, Political Science, Psychology, Psychology in Education (APSY1030 and APSY1031 are required for Lynch students), or, Economics (beginning with the Class of 2023, ECON1101 is required for all CSOM students) 2 courses in Theology––one of each: Sacred Texts and Traditions and Christian Theology 1 course in Writing Students are encouraged to use the Core to explore their interests, broaden their intellectual horizons, and discover more about themselves. Core courses are identified on the Course Information and Scheduling page (at bc.edu/myservices) as well as on the Core website (bc.edu/core). For more information on the University Core Curriculum please visit bc.edu/core. University Core Curriculum at Boston College As a Jesuit, Catholic University, Boston College shares a 450-year old tradition of concern for the integration of the intellectual, moral, and religious development of its students. The centerpiece of Jesuit education has always been a common curriculum that emphasizes the study of the defining works of the humanities, natural sciences, and social sciences. Our ongoing efforts to renew the University Core Curriculum aim to ensure that engagement with the Core, “broadens the intellectual horizons of students; introduces them to the best of contemporary pedagogy, research, and teaching; promotes their integration of knowledge, beliefs, and actions, and prepares them for lives of freedom, integrity, leadership, and service” (The Vision Animating the Boston College Core Curriculum, 2014). Guided by this vision, students completing the University Core Curriculum will: Demonstrate the critical, mathematical, informational, analytic, expressive, and creative skills that are essential tools of the educated person well-prepared for a meaningful life and vocation; Understand the major ideas and methods of inquiry of the scholarly disciplines that comprise the university and be able to use those methods of inquiry as beginning practitioners to address complex contemporary problems; Be able to identify and articulate the strengths and limitations of the disciplines and the relationship of the disciplines to one another, and demonstrate an understanding of the breadth and diversity of human knowledge as well as its openness to integration in more comprehensive wholes; Be conversant with, and able to discuss intelligently, enduring questions and issues that are fundamental to human inquiry and that have shaped the traditions from which the university has emerged; Demonstrate the ability to apply more than one disciplinary perspective to the same enduring question or complex contemporary problem; Be familiar with the scholarly exploration of religious faith and understand how faith and reason are related in the search for truth; Demonstrate the ability to examine their values and experiences and integrate what they learn with the principles that guide their lives; and, Be prepared, and disposed, to use their talents and education as engaged global citizens and responsible leaders in service of the common good. For more information on University Core Curriculum at Boston College, please visit bc.edu/core. Cross Registration Cross Registration Woods College of Advancing Studies All full-time undergraduate students are limited to one Woods College of Advancing Studies (WCAS) course each semester. Freshmen may not enroll in any WCAS course. WCAS courses can be used to fulfill elective requirements. Students must check with the appropriate department if they want to inquire about using about the possibility of using a Woods College of Advancing Studies course to fulfill a Core or major requirement. Any exception to this policy must be made with the appropriate department and Academic Dean’s approval. Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium The Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium (BTI), a consortium of theology faculty primarily in the Boston-Newton-Cambridge area, has as its constituent members the following institutions: Boston College Theology Department Boston College School of Theology and Ministry Boston University School of Theology Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary Hartford Seminary Harvard Divinity School Hebrew College Holy Cross Greek Orthodox School of Theology St. John’s Seminary and Theological Institute This consortium offers complete cross-registration in several hundred courses, the use of library facilities in the nine schools, joint seminars and programs, and faculty exchange programs. Theology majors and students in the School of Theology and Ministry who want to cross register through the Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium should reference www.bostontheological.org for instructions. Students are expected to consult with their advisor or department chairperson before cross registering. The Consortium Under a program of cross registration, sophomores, juniors, and seniors may take one elective course during each fall and spring semester at Boston University, Brandeis University, Northeastern University, Pine Manor College, Regis College, or Tufts University if a similar course is not available at Boston College. Cross registration forms are available in the Office of Student Services, Lyons Hall. Dean's List Dean's List The Dean's List recognizes the achievement of undergraduates, semester by semester. Students will be classified into two groups: First Honors (3.700–4.000) and Second Honors (3.500–3.699). In order to be eligible for the Dean's List, students must earn at least 12 or more credits in courses evaluated with a letter grade, excluding the P (pass) grade, and receive a passing grade in all courses. Students who have withdrawn from or failed a course and students who have received an incomplete grade (see Grading section) will not be eligible for the Dean's List. Degree Audit Degree Audit A degree audit is a computer-generated analysis that enables an undergraduate (except for Woods College of Advancing Studies) or law student and his or her advisor to assess the student's academic progress and unfulfilled requirements. Students in the Woods College of Advancing Studies can meet with an advisor to review their progress at any time. The degree audit is a valuable tool for academic planning because it matches the courses that the student has taken with the requirements of his or her degree program or anticipated program. Students receive degree audits each semester prior to registration and have access to actual and simulated degree audits at bc.edu/myservices ("Degree Audit"). Students are responsible for completing all the requirements listed on the degree audit prior to graduation. Degree with Honors Degree with Honors Academic honors printed in the Commencement program are based on averages at the end of the second semester senior year. Starting with the class of 2021, the cumulative average for degrees with honors will be as follows: summa cum laude (with the highest honors)—3.9–4.0 magna cum laude (with high honors)—3.8–3.899 cum laude (with honors)—3.667–3.799 Prior to the class of 2021: The summa cum laude was awarded to the top 4.5 percent of the graduating class, magna cum laude to the next 9.5 percent, and cum laude to the next 15 percent. Enrollment Status Enrollment Status Undergraduate Full-Time Enrollment Status To be considered full-time, students must be registered for courses totaling at least 12 credits per semester. At least 9 of the credits must be in courses of 3 credits or more. Ordinarily, students should average 15 credits per semester with a target of completing 30 credits per academic year. Woods College of Advancing Studies students must be enrolled in 12 credits to be considered full-time. Undergraduate Part-Time Enrollment Status Visiting or special students may enroll in one, two, or three courses each semester through the Woods College of Advancing Studies. Additional courses require the Dean's approval. External Courses External Courses After admission to Boston College, the only courses that a student may apply towards a degree will be those offered at Boston College in a regular course of study during the academic year. Any exceptions to this rule must be approved in writing by the Academic Dean before the courses are begun. Exceptions may be granted by the Academic Dean for official cross-registration programs, external summer study abroad and certain special study programs at other universities. A student must earn a grade of C- or better to receive credit for any course taken at another university. In some instances, the Academic Dean may stipulate a higher grade. After the course has been completed, the student should request that the registrar at the host university forward an official transcript to the Office of Student Services at Boston College. Final Examinations Final Examinations The final examination schedule for most courses is set before classes begin. It is available to the public, and students are responsible for consulting it. A student who misses a final examination is not entitled, as a matter of right, to a make-up examination except for serious illness and/or family emergency. No student should make travel arrangements to return home which are at odds with his or her examination schedule. Students who schedule a departure without regard to their schedules risk failure in their final examinations. Courses with multiple sections may have common departmental final examinations at a date and time determined by the Office of Student Services. Students with three final examinations scheduled for the same day are entitled to take a make-up exam at a later date during exam week. If one of the three exams is a common departmental exam, this is the exam that is taken at the later date. In the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, seminars and teacher-training courses may or may not have a semester examination at the discretion of the instructor. No exams or final assignments are to be scheduled during the Study Days designated on the Academic Calendar. Language Proficiency Requirements Language Proficiency Requirements The study of language, literature, and culture other than one’s own enables the Jesuit-educated student to appreciate the world better, to seek commonalities, and honor cultural differences. Therefore, students in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences will demonstrate intermediate-level proficiency in a foreign or classical language in order to graduate from Boston College. Intermediate proficiency is defined as completing the fourth semester of a language. Students continuing a language previously studied will take one to four courses, depending on their placement. First-year students should begin/complete the language requirement during their first semester. The Advanced Placement (AP) test scores below demonstrate intermediate-level proficiency at Boston College. Subject Test AP Score Chinese 4 French 3 German 4 Italian 3 Japanese 4 Korean N/A Latin 4 Modern Hebrew N/A Spanish 3 If you have taken the AP Test but have not yet received your score, take the placement test and register for the course recommended when you complete the test. When you receive the AP score, you may make necessary changes. If you have questions, speak with the language advisor at your registration session. Other Exams and Exam Score Minimums British A levels: Languages other than English A/B/C levels International Baccalaureate: Higher level foreign or modern classical language 6 or 7 General Certificate of Education: German A level DELE exams (Diplomas de Español como Lengua Extranjera): B1 or higher level Successful demonstration of native proficiency by documentation. Documentation of native proficiency ordinarily assumes evidence of post-elementary school education in the native language. Fulfillment of the proficiency requirement by the examinations listed above does not confer course credit. Course Work Meeting Language Proficiency Requirement Successful completion of the second semester of an intermediate-level Boston College modern or classical language course Successful completion of one Boston College modern or classical language course beyond the intermediate level Students may not take foreign language courses on a pass/fail basis until they have completed the university’s language proficiency requirement. Language courses will count as Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences electives. Students with documented learning disabilities may be exempt from the foreign language requirement and should consult with the Connors Family Learning Center (bc.edu/connors). Grading Grading The grading system consists of 12 categories, as follows: A, A-, B+, B, B-, C+, C, C-, D+, D, D-, and F. A is excellent; B is good; C is satisfactory; D is passing but unsatisfactory; F is failure. Students who withdraw from a course after the drop/add period will receive a grade of W. The grade of W is not included in the calculation of the grade point average. Students in the Connell School of Nursing must achieve a grade of C- or higher in designated nursing courses, or they will be required to retake the course. With the approval of the Academic Dean of their school or college, students may be permitted to take courses for enrichment. Courses approved for enrichment only, may, with the approval of the relevant department, go toward fulfilling a Core, major, or minor requirement. However, grades for courses taken for enrichment are not computed into the cumulative average and are not counted toward the total course or credit requirement for graduation. A student’s cumulative average is based on grades in courses taken in the full-time program at Boston College, plus other courses specifically approved for credit towards the degree by the Academic Dean. If a student fails a course, the course is not credited toward the degree, but the failing grade remains on the student’s transcript and a 0.0 is calculated into the student’s cumulative average. A failed course may be retaken for credit, with the new grade added to the GPA, but the original failure remains on the transcript and continues to be counted in the GPA. If a student retakes a failed course and fails it again, the course is again entered on the transcript and the grade is counted in the GPA. If a student retakes a course in which she or he has already received a passing grade, the repeated course is again entered on the transcript and the grade is calculated in the cumulative GPA, but the course is not credited toward the degree. Grades will be posted at bc.edu/myservices ("Current Courses and Grades") at the close of each semester. Any student who believes there is a grade discrepancy on a semester grade should resolve the discrepancy with their professor within the first six weeks of the following semester. Grading Scale In computing averages, the following numerical equivalents for the twelve (12) letter grades are used: A 4.00 A- 3.67 B+ 3.33 B 3.00 B- 2.67 C+ 2.33 C 2.00 C- 1.67 D+ 1.33 D 1.00 D- .67 F .00 P No effect on GPA U No effect on GPA Student Work and Assessment The grading of student work serves as the primary means of individual evaluation; additionally, student work generally may be used to assess course, program, and the related, learning outcomes in support of continuous improvement. Incomplete and Deferred Grades Incomplete and Deferred Grades All required work in any course must be completed by the date set for the course examination. A student who has not completed the research or written work for a course taken in the fall or spring semester or is absent from the course examination in either semester, may, with adequate reason and at the discretion of the instructor, receive a temporary grade of Incomplete (I). All such I grades will automatically be changed to F on March 1 for the fall, August 1 for the spring, and October 1 for the summer. After that time, generally no further grade change will be allowed. A faculty member may only assign a grade of J for a 2-semester course when the grade in the first semester is dependent on the grade issued at the end of the semester. The J grade has no GPA value. Instructors should assign a grade for each semester at the end of the second semester. Such courses may include an Internship, Dissertation Direction, or Student Teaching. Pass/Fail Pass/Fail Sophomores, juniors, and seniors may elect to designate a course as pass/fail during the first seven class-days of the semester. Only electives can be taken pass/fail. Courses being used to fulfill major, minor, Core, or corequisites cannot be taken pass/fail. Second-semester freshmen who have been approved by their Academic Dean for an overload of a sixth course of 3 credits or more may take that course on a pass/fail basis, in which case the course may not be used to fulfill a major, minor, Core requirement, or corequisites. No more than one course of 3 or more credits may be taken pass/fail in any semester. No student may take more than six pass/fail courses of 3 or more credits for credit toward a degree. Courses in the Carroll School of Management may not be taken on a pass/fail basis. Departments may designate some courses as not available in general for pass/fail enrollment. Students may not take foreign language courses on a pass/fail basis until they have completed the University's language proficiency requirement. Any foreign language course being used to fulfill a major, minor, Core, or corequirement cannot be taken pass/fail. A student enrolled in a course on a pass/fail basis who earns a grade of D- or higher will receive a grade of Pass for the course. Pass/Fail Option for 1-Credit Courses in the Major At the discretion of the school or department, some 1-credit courses that are required for a major or minor may be offered on a pass/fail basis only (e.g., practica, performance). Grade Change Grade Change Grade changes should be made only for exceptional reasons. For all students, the grades submitted by faculty at the end of each semester are considered final unless the faculty member has granted the student an Incomplete to provide time to finish his or her course work. Such Incompletes should only be granted for serious reasons, e.g., illness, and only when the student has been able to complete most of the course work but is missing a specific assignment, e.g., a final paper, an examination, etc. Incompletes are not to be granted to allow the student to complete a major portion of the course work after the end of the semester. Graduation Graduation Students are expected to satisfactorily complete eight semesters of full-time study (excluding summer terms) in order to earn the bachelor's degree. The University awards degrees in May, August, and December of each year, although commencement ceremonies are held only in May. A diploma will not be dated before all work is completed. Students who graduate in December may participate in commencement exercises the following May. In order to ensure timely clearance, all students who plan to graduate should confirm their diploma names online. With permission from the student's Academic Dean, there are two ways the time to degree can be shortened (accelerated): (1) by qualifying for Advanced Standing or (2) by completing all requirements in less than 8 full-time semesters. Details of these two paths are given below. Advanced Standing Beginning with the Class of 2024: Students who earn a minimum of 30 Advanced Placement units may be eligible for Advanced Standing and complete their undergraduate studies after six semesters of full-time study. Ordinarily, Advanced Standing is for one full year only. Students interested in this option should be in touch with their Academic Dean no sooner than the completion of their first semester at BC. No decisions on Advanced Standing will be made prior to this time. Students seeking Advanced Standing must be able to complete all degree requirements by the proposed graduation date and be approved for Advanced Standing by the Academic Dean before the start of the third year of undergraduate study. No more than 30 Advanced Placement units may be credited toward the degree. For further details, visit bc.edu/advancedplacement. Acceleration After being in residence for at least three semesters, and no later than the end of the drop/add period in the seventh semester, full-time undergraduate students may apply to their Academic Dean to accelerate their degree program by one semester. The following conditions apply: Summer courses intended for acceleration must be taken at Boston College. Any credits over 15 in a semester used for acceleration are charged the per credit rate for the semester they are taken. Financial aid will not cover these additional charges. Students transferring into Boston College with first-semester sophomore status or above are not eligible to accelerate their program of study. Students who have elected to take Advanced Standing are not eligible to accelerate their graduation further. Internal Transfers Internal Transfers Matriculated students wishing to transfer from one undergraduate college to another within Boston College should contact the Academic Dean's Office of the school to which admission is sought. Students may be eligible to apply for an internal transfer to a new division after: one semester for those seeking a transfer to Morrissey or Lynch, two semesters to Connell, and three semesters to Carroll. Transferring internally is not guaranteed and selectivity varies by division; interested students should complete the Internal Transfer Form found on the Academic Forms page. WCAS students interested in transferring into Morrissey, Lynch, CSON, or CSOM must apply to do so through the Office of Undergraduate Admission. Leave of Absence Leave of Absence A student in good standing who desires to interrupt the usual progress of an academic program may petition for a leave of absence. The process begins in the appropriate Academic Dean’s Office and will be extended for no more than one year, although petition for renewal is possible. Students on leave of absence may not take courses to advance their status at Boston College without obtaining prior approval from the appropriate Academic Dean’s Office. Students may not participate in extracurricular activities while on a leave of absence. Normally, students returning from a leave of absence may not regain their original graduation year. To assure re-enrollment for a particular semester following a personal leave of absence, students must notify their appropriate Academic Dean’s Office no later than four weeks in advance of the start of the next semester. Medical Leave of Absence If a student is unable to complete the coursework or other course of study for a semester due to medical reasons, the student may request a medical leave of absence. Medical leave, whether requested for mental health or physical health reasons, must be supported by appropriate documentation from a licensed care provider and be approved by the student’s Academic Dean. The University reserves the right to impose conditions on readmission from a medical leave, which may include: length of time on leave; the submission of documentation from the student’s health care provider; the student’s consent for the provider to discuss the student’s condition with University clinicians, and/or an independent evaluation of the student’s condition by University clinicians; and/or making use of University or outside professional services. The conditions will be specified at the time of leave, and students will be asked to acknowledge their acceptance of them. Students seeking to return from a medical leave should contact the appropriate Academic Dean’s Office. All documentation pertaining to returning from a medical leave of absence must be submitted no later than August 1 for the fall semester or December 15 for the spring semester. However, students seeking to return to a practicum, clinical or field education placement must contact the appropriate Academic Dean expressing the intent to seek readmission at least a full semester before the desired return. Students on Boston College’s medical insurance policy may be eligible to continue their health insurance the semester in which they take a medical leave of absence and the following semester. Students should consult with Student Services and can learn more about this policy at: bc.edu/medinsurance. Students granted a medical leave may be entitled to a semester’s tuition credit to be provided upon readmission, and should consult their school’s policy regarding the tuition credit and their financial aid advisor. Military Leave Policy Boston College supports the participation of our students in all branches of the United States Military, both active duty and reserve, and recognizes that military obligations for such students may occasionally conflict with academic responsibilities. In such cases students who are in good academic standing and are called to duty for more than 30 days may take a leave of absence for up to three years and be guaranteed readmission to the same academic program and status they held at the start of the leave. The expected graduation date will be adjusted appropriately by the dean upon readmission. The student may qualify for a full tuition credit to be applied upon return from the leave, but will still be responsible for any board and room fees incurred. The process for initiating the Leave is the same as that for a Medical Leave of Absence and will require official documentation of the student’s service obligation. Students desiring to return after three years should apply for readmission through the Dean’s Office in their desired program to determine if programs or program requirements have changed. For students whose military obligation will require fewer than 30 days away from classes, it may be possible to complete some or all of the registered coursework required to complete a successful semester. In such cases, students may be able to maintain their original graduation dates but would need to consult with the Dean’s Office and individual faculty instructors to determine if this is possible. If it is not possible to complete sufficient coursework for the semester, students may apply for a military leave of absence with the process outlined above. For graduate and professional students, the same process and conditions would apply. But such students receiving Boston College financial aid in the form of teaching or research stipends or tuition remission should consult the Director of Graduate Studies in their respective programs about potential funding issues before taking a leave as financial aid budgets are set annually by program and availability of funds may vary from year to year. Majors, Minors, and Concentrations Majors, Minors, and Concentrations Majors A major is a systematic concentration of at least 30 credits taken in a given academic discipline that enables a student to acquire a more specialized knowledge of the discipline, its history, its methodologies and research tools, its subfields, and the areas of concern in which the discipline is presently involved. This is done by means of a hierarchical sequence of courses or appropriate distribution requirements. In order to earn a major, students must have at least 27 credits in the major program that are not used to fulfill requirements for another major or minor. Minors Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Some departments offer a departmental minor for students who wish to complement their major with intensive study in another area. A departmental minor consists of at least 18 credits. These must include one introductory level course and at least one upper-level course or seminar. In order to earn a departmental minor, students must have at least 15 credits in the minor program that are not used to fulfill requirements for another major or minor. Students carrying a double major are advised not to minor. For a complete list of minors visit the Majors and Minors page. Interdisciplinary minors in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences must consist of at least 18 credits and must include either a required introductory course or a concluding seminar or project. (Note: Some programs require both.) In order to earn an interdisciplinary minor, students must have at least 15 credits in the minor program that are not used to fulfill requirements for another major or minor or a Core requirement. The list and description of the interdisciplinary minors is available in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences section of this Catalog. Students choose courses for the minor in consultation with the director of the department's minor program. Lynch School of Education and Human Development Lynch School majors may minor in Special Education. Some Lynch School Elementary and Secondary Education majors are eligible to minor in Middle School Mathematics Teaching. Further information on these minors is available in the Lynch School of Education and Human Development section of the University Catalog. Connell School of Nursing CSON students may pursue a Hispanic Studies minor, a Psychology minor, or a Medical Humanities, Health, and Culture minor specifically for Nursing students by contacting the Academic Dean, Undergraduate Nursing Program. Six courses (18 credits) are required to complete the minor. Full details are available on the CSON website. Carroll School of Management Students in the Carroll School of Management may select any minor offered by the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences. For a complete list of minors visit the Majors and Minors page. Concentrations Carroll School of Management (CSOM) Concentrations, or areas of specialization, are required for students earning degrees from Carroll School of Management and are available to Carroll School of Management students only. Most concentrations require four courses beyond the Core. However, some require five. Students must complete a concentration in one of the following areas: Accounting, Accounting and Information Systems, Accounting for Finance and Consulting, Business Analytics, Economics, Entrepreneurship, Finance, General Management, Information Systems, Management and Leadership, Managing for Social Impact and the Public Good, Marketing, or Operations Management. Students declare a concentration second semester sophomore year or during the junior year. Overloads Overloads The standard semester course load for undergraduates is five 3-credit courses and a maximum of 20 credits, including labs and other 1- or 2- credit courses. Students are eligible to overload if they have earned at least a 3.0 overall cumulative GPA or a 3.0 GPA in the semester immediately prior to the one for which the overload is sought, in which case they may register online for a sixth course of 3 credits or more and a maximum of 24 credits, including labs and other 1- and 2-credit courses, during the first seven class-days of the semester. Students are not permitted to take a sixth course of 3 credits or more during their first semester at Boston College. Second-semester freshmen who wish to overload with a sixth course of 3 credits or more must obtain permission from their Academic Dean. Students with an overall cumulative GPA between 2.0 and 3.0 may, under exceptional circumstances, be allowed by their Academic Dean to enroll in a sixth course. Students in a Woods College of Advancing Studies degree program may take a maximum course load of three courses per semester. Authorization for one additional course will be given only if the student has completed three courses in the previous semester, each with a grade of B- or better. Additional courses require authorization. Courses taken without reference to this regulation do not advance a student's Woods College degree program. Readmission Readmission Students who desire readmission must initiate the process in the Office of the appropriate Academic Dean of their school or college. Applications for readmission should be made at least four weeks before the start of the semester in which the student seeks to resume study. The appropriate Academic Dean will then make the decision about readmission, after careful consideration of the best interests of both the student and the University. In instances where a sustained period of time (more than one year) has elapsed since a student was last enrolled, the appropriate Academic Dean in consultation with the appropriate representative of the student’s department or program will identify the academic requirements, if any, that must be completed after readmission and before awarding the degree. Factors that will determine these requirements include, but are not limited to: the currency of the student’s knowledge in the student’s proposed academic major(s); the pertinence of courses completed at Boston College to current degree and licensure requirements; any academic work completed elsewhere that is relevant to degree and licensure requirements; and the length of the student’s absence. If there have been changes in the Academic Regulations and degree requirements since a student readmitted after sustained leave was last enrolled, the Academic Regulations in effect at the time of the student's readmission to full-time study will apply, unless the Academic Dean specifies otherwise in writing at the time of readmission. Satisfactory Academic Progress Satisfactory Academic Progress The requirements for Satisfactory Academic Progress are specified in the academic regulations for each school. Study Abroad—Office of Global Education Study Abroad—Office of Global Education Boston College global programs are open to BC undergraduate students who meet the requirements for study abroad as outlined by their Academic Dean. In order to be eligible for admission, students must be in good academic standing with a GPA of 3.0 or higher and have a clean disciplinary record. Final approval is at the discretion of the OGE, deans, and Student Affairs. Many programs have additional requirements and a selective application process; students should consult with the OGE for specific admission requirements. Boston College approves an equal number of students for study abroad in the fall and spring semesters, and not all applicants can be approved for their preferred term. Students should plan accordingly. Students remain subject to the academic policies of their home department as well as the host institution. They are expected to register for a full course load as defined by BC and the host university in order to earn a full semester’s worth of credit. Courses taken abroad which meet BC academic standards automatically count as general elective credit towards graduation. Students wishing to fulfill major, minor, or Core requirements abroad on both BC and non-BC programs may do so with the approval of the appropriate department(s) via a Student Services form. A student's enrollment in a program of study abroad approved for credit by the home institution may be considered enrollment at the home institution for the purpose of applying for assistance under the Title IV, HEOA programs. Summer Courses Summer Courses As of summer 2018, summer courses taken at Boston College count for academic credit and all grades earned are factored into students’ GPA as regular BC courses. Courses may satisfy Core or major/minor requirements as specified by the department, and will count toward the 120 credits required for the degree. A maximum of 4 courses (12–13 credits total) can be taken in the summer. BC Summer Courses Abroad BC summer courses taken abroad through the Office of International Programs (OIP) are factored into students' GPA as regular BC courses, and count for academic credit. Summer Courses at Other Institutions Summer courses taken at another university—local, national, international—, must be pre- approved from the Academic Dean using the Course Approval Form. Students will also need departmental approval if they want the summer course to fulfill a Core, language, major, or minor requirement. These summer courses may count for academic degree credit and grades will factor into the GPA if students have credit deficiencies. Students will receive enrichment credit if there is no prior credit deficiency. Enrichment credit means that the course may satisfy Core or major requirements with department permission, but will not count toward the 120 credits required for the degree. Courses, grades, and credits will be listed on the transcript but will not be calculated into the GPA. With the approval of the Academic Dean, students who incur deficiencies may use enrichment courses in previous summers to make up for deficiencies incurred subsequently. Transcripts Transcripts All current students submit requests for academic transcripts at bc.edu/myservices ("Transcript Request and Status"). Alumni should visit bc.edu/transcript for direction on the transcript request process. Students and alumni will be directed to the National Student Clearinghouse transcript fulfillment website as our vendor for transcripts. For more information visit bc.edu/transcript. Requests are usually processed within 48 to 72 hours of receipt. Transcript/Diploma Holds Diplomas will not be issued, nor transcript requests honored, for any student with an outstanding financial obligation to the University. The same policy applies to any student who does not complete the required loan exit interview. Transfer of Credit Transfer of Credit The unit of credit at Boston College is the semester hour. Most courses earn 3 semester hours of credit. Lab sciences usually earn 4 semester hours of credit. Courses in transfer with credit values ranging from 1–4 semester hours of credit will be considered on a course by course basis. A maximum of 30 credit hours for a first semester sophomore, 45 for a second semester sophomore and 60 semester hours of credit for an incoming junior will be allowed in transfer. No transfer credit will be granted for internships, field experiences, practica, or independent study. Grade point averages do not transfer with students. A new grade point average begins with the commencement of a student’s career at the University and reflects only work completed as a full-time undergraduate at Boston College. A new grade point average also begins when students transfer from the Woods College of Advancing Studies to one of the full-time undergraduate schools or when a full-time undergraduate transfers to the Woods College of Advancing Studies. Courses taken at other institutions during the summer prior to enrollment at Boston College must be approved in advance by the Office of Transfer Admission. Courses taken through the Boston College Summer Session during the summer prior to enrollment must be approved by the appropriate Academic Dean. University Communication Policies and Student Responsibilities University Communication Policies and Student Responsibilities Official communications of the University with its currently-enrolled students, including notices of academic and administrative matters and communications from faculty and administrative staff, may be sent via postal service, campus mail, or e-mail. To assure that these communications arrive in a timely manner, all enrolled students have the following responsibilities: Postal service and Campus mail: For purposes of written communication, the student’s local and permanent addresses on record at Student Services will be regarded as the student’s official local and permanent residences. All students have a responsibility to provide both local and permanent mailing addresses, and to enter corrections at bc.edu/myservices ("Update Your Address/Phone/Emergency Contact Information") if the addresses are not accurate in university records. Students should review their address record for accuracy at the beginning of each semester, and again soon after submitting any corrections. Students who are studying abroad have a responsibility to provide their local international address via a link on the Office of International Programs website. E-mail: The University recognizes and uses electronic mail as an appropriate medium for official communication. The University provides all enrolled students with Boston College e-mail addresses, as well as access to e-mail services from computer stations at various locations on campus. All students are expected to access their e-mail accounts regularly, to check for official University communications, and to respond as necessary to such communications. All student responses to official e-mail communications from the University must contain the student’s Boston College e-mail address in the “From:” and “Reply To:” lines, and should originate from the student’s Boston College e-mail address, to assure that the response can be recognized as a message from a member of the University community. Students may forward their e-mail messages from their Boston College e-mail address to non-university e-mail systems, if they wish. In such cases, however, students shall be solely responsible for all consequences arising from such forwarding arrangements, including any failure by the non-university system to deliver or retain official University communications. Students should send test messages to and from their University e-mail account on a regular basis, to confirm that their e-mail service is functioning reliably. University Degree Requirements University Degree Requirements The requirements for the bachelor's degree in the undergraduate day colleges are the completion with a satisfactory cumulative average (at least 1.5 in the Carroll School of Management and at least 1.667 in all other schools) and credit requirements which are distributed as follows: Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences students must accumulate at least 120 credits with 96 of the required 120 credits in departments of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences. Additional courses may be chosen from the offerings of the professional schools. Students in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences complete the Core curriculum, a major of at least 30 credits, and the language proficiency requirement distributed over eight semesters of full-time academic work. Carroll School of Management students complete 120 credits for graduation. All Lynch School of Education and Human Development majors complete 120 credits distributed over eight semesters of full-time academic work. Connell School of Nursing students complete at least 117 credits distributed over eight semesters of full-time academic work. Withdrawal from a Course Withdrawal from a Course Undergraduates may drop or add a course(s) online during the first seven class-days of the semester. Undergraduates only may drop a course until October 1, in the fall and February 15, in the spring semesters in their Academic Dean’s office. Students may not drop below 12 credits in a semester. After the extended drop period, undergraduates who withdraw from a course will have a "W" recorded in the grade column of their academic record. A grade of W has no effect on the GPA. A student may re-take a course for which a W has been recorded, in which case both the W and the subsequent grade are entered on the academic record. To withdraw from a course all students must go to the Academic Forms page of the Student Services website, submit the online form that will them be routed, to the Office of the Academic Dean for their school for review. Students will not be permitted to withdraw from courses after the published deadline. Students who are still registered at this point will receive a final grade for the semester. Withdrawal from Boston College Withdrawal from Boston College Students who wish to withdraw from Boston College in good standing are required to submit an online Withdrawal Form, found on the Academic Forms page of the Student Services website, which will be routed to the appropriate Academic Dean’s Office for processing. In the case of students who are dismissed for academic or disciplinary reasons, the Academic Dean will process the withdrawal. University (Senior) Awards and Honors University (Senior) Awards and Honors Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Frank J. Bailey, Sr. Award An award, the gift of the Bailey family, in memory of their father Frank J. Bailey, given to the graduating senior with a distinguished academic record in the field of Middle Eastern and Islamic Studies. John Bapst, S.J., Philosophy Award An award in honor of John Bapst, S.J., given to the student whose overall performance in philosophy courses has been outstanding. J. Robert Barth, S.J., Award for Excellence in the Arts An award in honor of the Dean of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences (1988–1999), who established and nurtured departments and programs in the arts. This award is presented annually to a senior who has made outstanding contributions to Boston College in the fine or performing arts. Andres Bello Award in Spanish An award offered by Dr. Paul William Garber and Dr. Philip C. Garber, Consuls of Chile in Boston, given to a senior who has excelled in Spanish. George F. and Jean W. Bemis Award An award in memory of George Fisher Bemis (1899–1971) and Jean Wilmot Bemis (1903–1987) of Milton, MA, a devoted couple quietly of service to others and with whom it was a delight to work. The award seeks to single out a member of the senior class distinguished for service to others. Albert A. Bennett Award In honor of Albert A. Bennett (1888–1971), an accomplished mathematician, distinguished teacher, and a Visiting Professor of Mathematics at Boston College from 1962–1971. This award is given to a member of the senior class, who demonstrates a high level of mathematical achievement and who, in their undergraduate years, has shown interest in or a desire for a career in teaching. Wendy Berson Language Award An award, the gift of Mrs. Solomon Berson in memory of her daughter, Wendy Berson, given to the senior who demonstrates excellence in the area of Romance Languages in general and, specifically, the ability to speak one or more languages with great expertise. Laetitia M. Blain Award for Excellence in Musical Performance An award named in honor of Laetitia M. Blain, Musician-In-Residence at Boston College (1975–2000). This award is given annually to a senior who has contributed to the musical life on campus in a significant and outstanding way. Alice E. Bourneuf Award In honor of Alice E. Bourneuf, Professor of Economics at Boston College (1959–1977), this award is given to an outstanding senior in Economics based on achievement in both major and non-major courses, strength of curriculum, quality of written and creative work, and attitude toward the study of Economics. Francis A. Brick Award An award, the gift of Mrs. Francis A. Brick, in memory of her husband, Francis A. Brick, LL.D. 1896, given to the student who has been outstanding in character, loyalty, leadership, and scholarship during their four years at Boston College. The Dr. Donald S. Brown Award The Donald S. Brown Award was established in honor of the former director of the Office of AHANA Student Programs from 1978–2005. This award honors a senior who throughout their undergraduate career has made extraordinary contributions to the Boston College community in ways that have benefited AHANA students in the areas of leadership, service and academic development. Donald S. Carlisle Award An award established by the Department of Political Science in memory of Donald S. Carlisle, Professor of Political Science at Boston College (1968–1997), given each year to a graduating senior for outstanding achievement in political science. Normand Cartier Award The Normand Cartier Award is given to a senior who is a member of the Lambda Psi Chapter of the Pi Delta Phi National French Honors Society and has demonstrated leadership in promoting French and francophone literature and culture in the Boston College community. Brendan Connolly, S.J., Award An award in honor of Brendan Connolly, S.J. (1913–1974), Director of Libraries at Boston College (1959–1974), a witty and deeply loyal man who loved books and respected learning. This award is made to a member of the senior class who is distinguished for the same characteristics. Matthew Copithorne Scholarship An award given to a graduate, exhibiting qualities of character, industry, and intelligence, and plans to do graduate study at Harvard or MIT. Cardinal Cushing Award An award donated by Francis Cardinal Spellman, in honor of Richard Cardinal Cushing, given annually to an undergraduate student for the best writing in fiction published in a Boston College undergraduate publication. Joseph G. and Margaret M. Dever Fellowship Founded by Robert Muse, Esq. ’42, in honor of his classmate, Joseph Dever, the cash grant is given to a graduating senior who shows promise of a career in writing. John D. Donovan Award An award named in honor of John D. Donovan (Boston College, A.B. 1939; M.A. 1941; Harvard, Ph.D. 1951), Professor of Sociology (1952–1988). The Department of Sociology presents this award to the undergraduate student who submits the best paper written for a course in sociology during the previous year. Patrick Durcan Award An award, the gift of Mrs. J. Greer, in memory of her brother, Rev. Patrick Durcan, given to the student whose overall performance in history courses has been outstanding. Figurito Family Award for Scholarly Achievement in Italian An award presented in honor of Joseph Figurito, Professor of French and Italian at Boston College for over half the twentieth century, to a senior for scholarly achievement in Italian. Edward H. Finnegan, S.J., Award An award in memory of Rev. Edward H. Finnegan, S.J., given to the student who has best exemplified in their four years at Boston College the spirit of the College motto, “Ever to Excel.” Mary A. and Katherine G. Finneran Commencement Award An award, the gift of Misses Elizabeth and Theresa Finneran, given to the student who has achieved outstanding success in studies, while also devoting time and talents to other activities for the enrichment of the College and student life. William A. Gamson Award An award established by the Department of Sociology in honor of William A. Gamson, given each year to a graduating senior for outstanding academic achievement in sociology. Thomas I. Gasson, S.J., Award An award in honor of Thomas I. Gasson, S. J., President of Boston College (1907–1914), given to the graduating senior with a distinguished academic record over a four-year period. General Excellence Award A gift of the Philomatheia Club, given to the student who has achieved general excellence in all branches of studies during their entire four years at Boston College. Giffuni Prize An award sponsored by the Giffuni Family Fund in honor of Vincent Giffuni (BC ’65), given to a senior who has written an outstanding thesis in economics. The George J. Goldsmith Award An award given in memory of longtime Physics Department faculty member George J. Goldsmith, who is remembered for both his scholarship and his selfless dedication to the students of Boston College, this award is given annually to a graduating physics major in recognition of excellence in academic achievement and research. John L. Heineman Award This award was established by the History Department in honor of the late John L. Heineman, a challenging and inspirational colleague (1963–2003), a Renaissance man, and a master teacher. It is given each year to a graduating senior in recognition of exceptional historical scholarship. Janet Wilson James Essay Prize An award in memory of Professor Janet Wilson James, historian and feminist scholar, given to a senior distinguished for scholarship in women’s studies. The David A. Karp Award An award in honor of David A. Karp, Professor of Sociology from 1971–2012. While leading the Sociology Honors Program, he inspired generations of students to strive for insightful sociological listening and beautiful writing that is the hallmark of his work. William A. Kean Memorial Award An award, the gift of James M. Kean in memory of his brother, William A. Kean ’35, given to that member of the graduating class deemed the outstanding English major. Bishop Kelleher Award An award donated by Francis Cardinal Spellman in honor of The Most Reverend Louis F. Kelleher, given to an undergraduate student for the best writing in poetry published in a Boston College undergraduate publication. William J. Kenealy, S.J., Award An award in memory of the late William J. Kenealy, S.J., Dean of the Boston College Law School (1939–1956), whose life was distinguished by a passion for social justice. This award is given to the graduating senior who has been distinguished in both academic work and social concern. T. Frank Kennedy, S.J., Award for Excellence in the Academic Study of Music An award given in honor of the co-founder, long-term chair, and guiding spirit of the Music Department to an outstanding senior who has shown consistent excellence in the academic study of Music. Joseph M. Larkin, S.J., Award An award presented annually to the senior member of the Boston College Dramatics Society who has most clearly exhibited the qualities of dedication and integrity exemplified by the life and career of Rev. Joseph M. Larkin, S.J. John Henry Lawton Award An award presented in memory of John Henry Lawton, to the member of the senior class who has shown outstanding scholarship in the Department of Communication. Allison R. Macomber, Jr., Award in the Fine Arts Two awards established and supported primarily by gifts from the Horbach Fund for outstanding work in the Fine Arts in honor of Allison R. Macomber, Jr., Artist-in-Residence at Boston College, 1963–1979, whose presence and teaching opened the eyes not only of his students but of the entire community to the greatness and wonders of art. J. Paul Marcoux Award An award in honor of J. Paul Marcoux, Professor of Theater at Boston College (1964–1994), presented annually to a senior Theater major for excellence and growth, both academically and artistically, over their four years at Boston College. Richard and Marianne Martin Award In memory of Richard and Marianne Martin for their dedication to the ideals of art, and for their unstinting devotion to the goals and values of Boston College. Two awards are given by the Boston College Friends of Art; one to an outstanding scholar in art history, the other to a student who excels in studio art. Denis A. McCarthy Award The Denis A. McCarthy Award is given to an undergraduate for outstanding work in creative writing. John McCarthy, S.J., Award An award established in memory of Rev. John McCarthy, S.J., a most beloved scholar, faculty member, and Dean in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, for those whose Scholar of the College projects are deemed most distinguished in the Humanities, the Social Sciences, the Natural Sciences and in History. Gail A. McGrath Award An award presented in memory of Dr. Gail A. McGrath, a beloved professor of Communication at Boston College (1966–1997), to a member of the senior class pursuing a graduate degree in Communication. Albert McGuinn, S.J., Award This award is in memory of the late Albert McGuinn, S.J., long-time Chairman of the Chemistry Department at Boston College, and presented to the senior candidate for the Bachelor of Science degree. The recipient has most successfully combined proficiency in a major field of study with achievements, either academic, extracurricular, or a combination of both, in the social sciences or humanities. Henry J. McMahon Award In memory of Henry J. McMahon, faculty member and Associate Dean at Boston College (1946–1984). This award is given annually to the graduating senior of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences who has been accepted at a law school and who has been distinguished by scholarship, loyalty, and service to the College. The John J. Neuhauser Award in Computer Science An award given to the senior in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences who has demonstrated outstanding achievement in computer science. John F. Norton Award An award in honor of John F. Norton ’22, Boston College professor (1926–1965), given to the student who best personifies the tradition of humanistic scholarship. Cardinal O’Connell Theology Award An award, the gift of the late William Cardinal O’Connell, given to the student whose overall performance in theology courses has been outstanding. The Thomas H. O’Connor Award An award established by the History Department in honor of the late Thomas H. O’Connor, who taught in the department from 1950–1999, and who also served as Boston College University Historian. It is given each year to a graduating senior in recognition of outstanding achievement in the study of American history. Princess Grace of Monaco Award An award offered by Dr. Helene Day, Consul of Monaco, and Dr. Paul William Garber and Dr. Philip C. Garber, Consuls of Chile in Boston, given to a senior who has excelled in French. E. Paul Robsham Distinguished Service Award An award given annually by the Theater Department to the graduating senior, who though seldom sharing the spotlight, has worked with exceptional professionalism, dedication, creativity and enthusiasm behind the scenes to bring the benefits of the theater to the Boston College community. Paul J. Sally, Jr., Award A cash award, in honor of Paul J. Sally, Jr., ’54, ’56, Professor of Mathematics at the University of Chicago, a highly esteemed mathematician well known for his many contributions to mathematical endeavors at all levels. This award is bestowed on senior mathematics majors who demonstrate excellence in mathematics coursework of a particularly demanding nature. Secondary Education Minor Award This award is conferred on a student in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences who has completed the Secondary Education Program within the Lynch School of Education and Human Development and has achieved distinguished success as a student teacher. Harry W. Smith Award An award, the gift of the Smith Family, in memory of Harry W. Smith, a leader in corporate and community philanthropic work, to honor a member of the senior class who has used personal talents to an exceptional degree in the service of others. Dr. Joseph R. Stanton, M.D., ’42 Award This award is a gift from Stanton Medical Associates in memory of Joseph Stanton, M.D. ’42. The award is intended for a graduating senior who has been accepted by a medical school and who has been outstanding in character, loyalty, leadership, and scholarship at Boston College. Dr. Joseph S. Stanton Memorial Award An award, the gift of Doctors Richard Stanton ’38 and Joseph R. Stanton ’42 in memory of their father, Joseph Stanton who was also a doctor. The award is given to the student who has been accepted to a medical school and who has been outstanding in character, loyalty, leadership, and scholarship at Boston College. Tully Theology Award An award given in memory of the late Dennis H. Tully, given to the student who has written the best paper on a theological subject. Max Wainer Award An award, the gift of Anneliese K. Wainer, Ph.D., ’72, in honor of her husband, Max Wainer, given annually to the senior who is deemed the outstanding student in Classics. Lynch School of Education and Human Development Charles F. Donovan, S.J., Award Presented to a member of the senior class in honor of Father Donovan, founding Dean of the School. The recipient exhibits superior leadership, academic, and innovative qualities, and demonstrates excellence in professional and personal commitment, with a genuine concern for the needs and values of others. General Excellence Award Presented to a senior who has at the same time manifested outstanding achievement in all courses of study during four academic years and qualifies for teaching licensure. Saint Edmund Campion Award Presented for excellence in an academic major. Reverend Edward H. Finnegan, S.J., Nominee Award Presented to the Lynch School nominee for the top undergraduate prize given to the graduating senior who best exemplifies the qualities of excellence, humility, and service to others and who best epitomizes the University's motto, "Ever to Excel." Dr. Marie M. Gearan Award Presented in honor of Professor Gearan, a member of the original faculty and first Director of Student Teaching, to a member of the senior class for outstanding academic achievement, campus leadership, and distinguished success as a student teacher. Saint Richard Gwyn Award Presented to a member of the senior class for outstanding promise as a secondary teacher. Reverend Henry P. Wennerberg, S.J., Award Presented in honor of Father Wennerberg, first spiritual counselor in the School, to a member of the senior class who is outstanding for participation and leadership in school and campus activities. John J. Cardinal Wright Award Presented in honor of Cardinal Wright to that senior who has shown expert use of creativity and imagination in the area of motivation, and at the same time is dedicated to high educational ideals. John A. Schmitt Award Presented to a member of the senior class who, as Professor Schmitt did, has consistently demonstrated compassion for fellow human beings, integrity in dealings with others, diligence in his or her profession, and courage in the pursuit of what he or she believes to be right. Mr. and Mrs. Vincent P. Roberts Award Presented to a member of the senior class who is distinguished for loyalty to the ideals and purposes of the Lynch School. James F. Moynihan, S.J., Award Presented in honor of Father Moynihan, first chair of the Psychology Department and Professor of Psychology in Education for many years, to a student in the Applied Psychology and Human Development Program, who has shown superior scholarship, contributed creatively to the well-being of others, and has manifested dedication and commitment to the enhancement of the human development process. Patricia M. Coyle Award Given to the graduating senior in Elementary Education who is a clear thinker in the field, able to translate the theories of child development and learning into the practice of teaching young children with enthusiasm and love, and a person who is a thoughtful, reflective teacher, perceptive and sensitive to the needs of children. Karen E. Noonan Award Given to the graduating senior in Elementary Education who has the qualities of a "natural" teacher of young children; a person who can communicate warmth and a sense of excitement for learning; a person who loves the exhilaration of working with challenging students, and making each child in the classroom feel important and unique. Cynthia J. Sullivan ’79 Memorial Achievement Award Presented to members of the junior class who have achieved outstanding academic achievement; demonstrated qualities of loyalty, generosity of self, and integrity; and show an appreciation for the arts. Cynthia J. Sullivan Award Winner Presented to last year’s winner of the Cynthia J. Sullivan Memorial Achievement Award, this stipend is intended to fund graduate study or post-graduate travel. Reverend John Christopher Sullivan, S.J., Award Presented in honor of Father Sullivan, first Associate Dean in the School of Education, to a member of the senior class who, as Father Sullivan did, exhibits cheerfulness, creativity, enthusiasm, and high energy; who demonstrates respect for individuals and is supportive of others; who shares with them the gift of personal care, regard, individual attention, warmth, and respectful sense of humor; and whose personality and actions reflect an appreciation of the dignity and value of every individual. Bernard A. Stotsky/Professor John Eichorn Prize Awarded to a student who has demonstrated excellence in the area of special education at the undergraduate level and does a practicum or pre-practicum at the Campus School as part of an academic program of study in the Lynch School. Gretchen A. Bussard Award Presented to a member of the junior class in the Applied Psychology and Human Development Program who has used what he or she has learned in the classroom to improve the lives of others. Albert A. Bennett Award Presented by the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, in honor of Professor Bennett (1888–1971), visiting professor of mathematics at Boston College 1962–1971, to a member of the graduating class who demonstrates a high level of mathematical achievement and who has shown interest in or a desire for a career in teaching. Secondary Education Award Given to the student in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences who has completed the Secondary Education Program and has achieved distinguished success as a student teacher. Lynch School Awards Presented to graduating seniors for academic excellence and outstanding performance in a variety of areas. Carroll School of Management Thomas I. Gasson, S.J., Award Founded by Boston College for general excellence in all courses of study during the four years in the Carroll School of Management. The Edward H. Finnegan, S.J. Memorial Award Nominee The top commencement honor which recognizes a senior who best exemplifies the University's motto: "Ever to Excel." The James Gips Outstanding Student in Information Systems Award Awarded to the student who has demonstrated outstanding achievement in the field of Information Systems. The John B. Atkinson Award Founded by John B. Atkinson for excellence in all courses studied in the field of Operations Management. George Aragon Outstanding Student Award For an outstanding senior concentrating in Finance. The selection is made by the faculty committee of the Finance Department. The Edgar F. Huse Memorial Award An award presented annually by the faculty for excellence in Management and Leadership. The Hutchinson Memorial Award Presented by the Boston chapter of the American Marketing Association to a Marketing student. The Raymond F. Keyes Service Award Awarded to a senior concentrating in Marketing who has demonstrated a desire to provide service to the nonprofit community. Charles W. Lyons, S.J., Award Founded by Boston College for excellence in all courses studied in the field of Accounting. The Patrick A. O'Connell Finance Award Founded by Patrick A. O'Connell for excellence in all courses studied in the field of Finance. The Patrick A. O'Connell Marketing Award Founded by Patrick A. O'Connell for excellence in all courses studied in the field of Marketing. The Eric Allen Serra Award Established in 1993 by the friends of Eric Allen Serra and awarded to a graduating senior who is actively involved in the BC community and best represents the attributes for which Eric is remembered by his friends. The James E. Shaw Memorial Award An award given to a senior in the Carroll School of Management who has been accepted to a recognized Law School. The student demonstrates a strong personal interest in the welfare of fellow students. The Rev. Stephen Shea, S.J., Award Awarded to the senior who has attained the highest average in all courses in Philosophy during four years in the Carroll School of Management. The James D. Sullivan, S.J., Award Awarded to a senior outstanding in character and achievement. The Matthew J. Toomey Award Founded by Mr. Knowles J. Toomey to honor the outstanding student in the Carroll School of Management Honors Program. Outstanding Student in Business Analytics Award Awarded to the senior who demonstrates excellence in all courses studied in the Business Analytics discipline. Dean's Letter of Commendation Awarded to a senior who is recognized for exemplary accomplishment in the Carroll School community. Connell School of Nursing Alumni Award Established by the alumni to honor a nursing student for general excellence in both the classroom and in the wider Boston College community. Marie S. Andrews Clinical Performance Award Established by the faculty to honor the student who has demonstrated, through performance across the clinical education portion of the curriculum, sensitivity to the needs of patients, respect for dignity and “wholeness” of the patient, and outstanding ability to deliver quality nursing care. Cathy Jean Malek Award Established by the faculty to honor the student who is a role model for his or her fellow classmates and underclassmen with consistent professionalism and integrity. William F. Connell Award Undergraduate Nominee Established by the faculty to honor one graduating student who best demonstrates the attributes of leadership, loyalty, service, achievement, humility, and goodwill. Edward H. Finnegan, S.J., Award Nominee Established by the faculty to honor the student, who through excellence, humility, and service to others, exemplifies the Boston College motto of “Ever to Excel.” The faculty of the four undergraduate schools at Boston College each nominates a candidate and the winner is announced at the University Commencement. The award winner will accept the degree for the class at the University Commencement. Reverend Edward J. Gorman, S.J., Leadership Award Given to the student who, in the judgment of classmates, best exemplifies leadership and who has contributed to the William F. Connell School of Nursing through dedication, service, and sincerity. Susan E. Donelan Inclusive Community Award Given to the student who, in the judgment of classmates has promoted a spirit of cultural awareness, inclusivity, and support to foster the success of his or her graduating class. Jean A. O’Neil Achievement Award Established by the faculty to honor the graduating senior who has shown the greatest academic growth over the course of their four years of study in the baccalaureate nursing program. Maureen A. Eldredge Leadership and Volunteer Service Award Established by the faculty to honor the graduate who embodies the Jesuit ideals of being “men and women in service to others” through demonstrated leadership and substantial commitment to others in volunteer service. Graduate Academic Regulations University-wide academic regulations that pertain to all graduate and professional students are presented below. Students are expected to become familiar with the regulations that are specific to their school. To learn about each school’s academic regulations, please refer to the following sites: Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences bc.edu/bc-web/schools/mcas/graduate/current-graduate-students/policies-and-procedures.html Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Graduate Programs Master’s Students: bc.edu/content/bc-web/schools/lynch-school/sites/audience-pages/current-students/policies-and-procedures#tab-masters Doctoral Students: bc.edu/content/bc-web/schools/lynch-school/sites/audience-pages/current-students/policies-and-procedures#tab-doctoral Carroll School of Management, Graduate Programs bc.edu/bc-web/schools/carroll-school/audience-pages/current-students.html#graduate Connell School of Nursing, Graduate Programs Master’s Students: bc.edu/bc-web/schools/cson/sites/students.html#master_s Doctoral Students: bc.edu/bc-web/schools/cson/sites/students.html#ph_d_ Boston College School of Social Work bc.edu/schools/gssw/academics/academic-policies.html Boston College Law School bc.edu/content/dam/bc1/schools/law/top-bar/current-students/Academics/documents-forms/academic_policies_and_procedures.pdf School of Theology and Ministry bc.edu/content/bc-web/schools/stm/sites/audience-pages/current-students/AcademicPolicies.html Woods College of Advancing Studies bc.edu/bc-web/schools/wcas/sites/information-for/current-students/academic-policies.html Academic Regulations are effective from September of the current academic year (2022–2023) except where a different date is explicitly stated. If there have been changes in the Academic Regulations and degree requirements since a student readmitted after sustained leave was last enrolled, the Academic Regulations in effect at the time of the student’s readmission to full-time study will apply, unless the Associate Dean specifies otherwise in writing at the time of readmission. Print Open All Close All Academic Grievances Academic Grievances Any graduate or professional student who believes he or she has been treated unfairly in academic matters should consult with the faculty member or administrator designated by their school to discuss the situation and to obtain information about relevant grievance policies and procedures. Academic Record Academic Record A record of each graduate or professional student’s academic work is prepared and maintained permanently by the Office of Student Services. Student academic records are sealed at the time the degree is conferred. After this date changes may not be made, with the exception of errors or omissions. Attendance Attendance Graduate and professional students are expected to meet course requirements in classes, internships, and practica as specified in the syllabus or document prepared explicitly for the academic experience. A student who is absent repeatedly from these academic experiences will be evaluated by the responsible faculty member and/or designated supervisor(s) to ascertain the student’s ability to continue in the course and to achieve course objectives. Professors may include, as part of the semester’s grades, marks for the quality and quantity of the student’s participation in the course. Professors will announce, reasonably well in advance, tests, examinations and other forms of assessment based on the material covered in the course, as well as other assigned material. A student who is absent from a course is responsible for obtaining knowledge of what happened in the course, especially information about announced tests, papers, or other assignments. A student who is absent from a course on the day of a previously announced examination, including the final examination, is not entitled, as a matter of right, to make up what was missed. The professor involved is free to decide whether a makeup will be allowed. In cases of prolonged absence, the student or his or her representative should communicate with the student’s graduate Associate Dean as soon as the prospect of extended absence becomes clear. The academic arrangements for the student’s return to the course should be made with the Graduate Associate Dean’s Office as soon as the student’s health and other circumstances permit. Absences for Religious Reasons Any graduate or professional student who is unable, because of his or her religious beliefs, to attend classes, internships, or practica, or to participate in any examination, study, or work requirement on a particular day shall be excused from any such examination, or study or work requirement, and shall be provided with an opportunity to makeup such examination, study or work requirement that may have been missed because of such absence on any particular day. However, students should notify professors and supervisors at the end of the first course meeting or at least two weeks in advance of any such planned observances, and such makeup examination or work shall not create an unreasonable burden upon the University. No fees will be charged and no adverse or prejudicial effects shall result to any student who is absent for religious reasons. Audits Audits Graduate and professional students should consult their school or department for specific policies regarding audits. Comprehensive Examination or Qualifying Papers: Doctoral Comprehensive Examination or Qualifying Papers: Doctoral Graduate and professional students should consult their school or department for specific policies regarding comprehensive examinations or qualifying papers for doctoral students. Comprehensive Examination: Master's Students Comprehensive Examination: Master's Students Graduate and professional students should consult their school or department for specific policies regarding comprehensive examinations for master's students. Continuation: Doctoral Candidacy Continuation: Doctoral Candidacy Graduate and professional students who have completed all required coursework and who have successfully completed the comprehensive examination or the oral defense of a publishable paper are admitted to doctoral candidacy. Doctoral candidates are required to register and pay for Doctoral Continuation (9999) during each semester of their candidacy or its equivalent. Please refer to your school’s regulation for additional information on doctoral candidacy. Cross Registration Cross Registration Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium The Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium (BTI), a consortium of theology faculty primarily in the Boston-Newton-Cambridge area, has as its constituent members the following institutions. Graduate and professional students should consult their school or department for specific policies regarding cross-registration in the BTI. Boston College Theology Department Boston College School of Theology and Ministry Boston University School of Theology Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary Hartford Seminary Harvard Divinity School Hebrew College Holy Cross Greek Orthodox School of Theology St. John’s Seminary and Theological Institute The Consortium Boston College is part of a consortium that includes Boston University, Brandeis University, Hebrew College, Hellenic College, Pine Manor College, Regis College, Northeastern, and Tufts University. Eligible students are allowed to take courses at any of these institutions if the same courses are not offered at Boston College at any time during the academic year. Cross registration materials are available from the Office of Student Services on the Academic Forms page. Graduate and professional students should consult their school or department for specific policies regarding cross-registration in this consortium. Consortium for Graduate Studies in Gender, Culture, Women, and Sexuality Eligible graduate and professional students enrolled in degree programs during the academic year may apply to participate in the Consortium for Graduate Studies in Gender, Culture, Women, and Sexuality, an inter-institutional enterprise established to advance the field of women’s studies and enlarge the scope of graduate education through new models of team teaching and interdisciplinary study. Faculty and students are drawn from nine member schools: Boston College, Boston University, Brandeis University, Harvard University, MIT, Northeastern, Simmons, Tufts, and UMass Boston. Graduate and professional students should consult their school or department for specific policies regarding cross-registration in this consortium. Eligible students need to obtain permission from their department or school. Registration forms will be mailed from the Consortium to accepted students. Degree with Honors Degree with Honors Academic honors are not calculated for graduate students except for law. Law students’ Latin honors are calculated as follows: Summa Cum Laude is awarded to the top 2% of the class. Magna Cum Laude is awarded to the top 10% of the class. Cum Laude is awarded to students graduating in the upper third of the class. Honors will be noted on the student’s diploma. Enrollment Status Enrollment Status Full-Time Enrollment Status Graduate and professional students should consult their school or department for specific policies regarding full-time enrollment status. Final Examinations Final Examinations For graduate level courses that have final examinations, professors may use the University’s final examination schedule, which is public and set before classes begin, or they may set the day and time of their final examination in the syllabus or document prepared explicitly for the academic experience. All students are responsible for knowing when their final examinations will take place and for taking examinations at the scheduled time. Students who miss a final examination are not entitled, as a matter of right, to a makeup examination except for serious illness and/or family emergency. Students who are not able to take a final examination during its scheduled time should contact the person designated by the department or school, preferably prior to the examination date, to inform them of their situation and to make alternative arrangements if granted permission to do so. Foreign Language Requirement Foreign Language Requirement Graduate and professional students should consult their school or department for specific policies regarding foreign language requirements. Grading Grading In each graduate course, in which a graduate or professional student is registered for graduate credit, the student will receive one of the following grades at the end of the semester: A, A-, B+, B, B-, C, F, W, J, U, P, or I. The high passing grade of A is awarded for superior work. The passing grade of B is awarded for work that clearly is satisfactory at the graduate level. The low passing grade of C is awarded for work that is minimally acceptable at the graduate level. The failing grade of F is awarded for work that is unsatisfactory. A pass/fail option is available for a limited number of courses. A Sat/Unsat grade is recorded for courses such as doctoral continuation. Please refer to your school’s regulation for additional information on grading. Grading Scale In computing averages, the following numerical equivalents are used. The entire grading scale is not used by all schools. A 4.00 A- 3.67 B+ 3.33 B 3.00 B- 2.67 C+ 2.33 C 2.00 C- 1.67 D+ 1.33 D 1.00 D- .67 F .00 P No effect on GPA U No effect on GPA Grade Changes Grade changes should be made only for exceptional reasons. The grades submitted by faculty at the end of each semester are considered final unless the faculty member has granted the student an Incomplete. Incompletes may be granted to provide a student time to finish his or her course work after the date set for the course examination or in the course syllabus. Incompletes should only be granted for serious reasons, e.g., illness, and only when the student has been able to complete most of the course work but is missing a specific assignment, e.g., a final paper, an examination, etc. Incompletes are not to be granted to allow the student to complete a major portion of the course work after the end of the semester. All I grades will automatically be changed to F on March 1 for the fall, August 1 for the spring, and October 1 for the summer except for students in the Boston College School of Social Work and the Boston College Law School. Graduate and professional students should consult their school or department for more information on grade changes. Student Work and Assessment The grading of student work serves as the primary means of individual evaluation; additionally, student work generally may be used to assess course, program, and the related, learning outcomes in support of continuous improvement. Pass/Fail Electives Pass/Fail Electives Graduate and professional students should consult their school or department for specific policies regarding pass/fail electives. Good Standing Good Standing Grades, satisfactory performance in internships and practica, and timely completion of degree requirements determine a student’s good standing in his or her program. Students should be informed in a timely manner if their good standing is in jeopardy and the conditions needed to maintain or establish good standing. Graduate and professional students should consult their school or department for specific policies regarding academic good standing. Graduation Graduation The University awards degrees in May, August, and December of each year. Commencement ceremonies are held only in May. Students who have completed all requirements for the degree before a specific graduation date are eligible to receive the degree as of the university’s next official graduation date. A diploma will not be dated before all work is completed. Students who graduate in December or August may participate in commencement exercises the following May. In order to ensure timely clearance, all students who plan to graduate should confirm their diploma names online at bc.edu/myservices according to the deadline listed on the diploma name/address link. Leave of Absence Leave of Absence Voluntary Leave of Absence Graduate students who do not register for course work, Thesis or Dissertation Direction, or Interim Study in any given semester must request a leave of absence for that semester. Leaves of absence are not usually granted for more than two semesters at a time, and are rarely granted for students on Doctoral Continuation. Students may apply for a personal or medical leave of absence. As described below, appropriate documentation is required for a medical leave of absence. Students may submit a personal or medical leave of absence request online using a form found on the Student Services Academic Forms page. Once submitted it will be routed to the appropriate school’s Associate Dean’s for review. Leave time for either a personal or medical leave of absence will normally be considered a portion of the total time limit for the degree unless the contrary is decided upon initially between the student and the Associate Dean. Personal Leave of Absence Students on an approved personal leave of absence should contact the Associate Dean’s Office at least six weeks prior to the semester in which they expect to re-enroll. The appropriate Associate Dean will make the decision on the readmission request. Medical Leave of Absence If a student is unable to complete the coursework or other course of study for a semester due to medical reasons, the student may request a medical leave of absence. Medical leave, whether requested for mental health or physical health reasons, must be supported by appropriate documentation from a licensed care provider and be approved by the student’s Associate Dean. The University reserves the right to impose conditions on readmission from a medical leave, which may include: length of time on leave; the submission of documentation from the student’s health care provider; the student’s consent for the provider to discuss the student’s condition with University clinicians, and/or an independent evaluation of the student’s condition by University clinicians; and/or making use of University or outside professional services. The conditions will be specified at the time of leave, and students will be asked to acknowledge their acceptance of them. Students seeking to return from leave should contact the appropriate Academic Dean prior to seeking readmission no later than four weeks prior to the desired admission date. However, students seeking to return to a practicum, clinical or field education placement must contact the appropriate Academic Dean expressing the intent to seek readmission at least a full semester before the desired return. Students on Boston College’s medical insurance policy may be eligible to continue their health insurance the semester in which they take a medical leave of absence and the following semester. Students should consult with Student Services and can learn more about this policy at: bc.edu/medinsurance. Students granted a medical leave may be entitled to a semester’s tuition credit to be provided upon readmission, and should consult their school’s policy regarding the tuition credit. Involuntary Leave of Absence Students may be separated from the University for academic reasons (please refer to specific school or department policies for more information) or for reasons of health, safety, or when a student’s continuance at Boston College poses significant risk to the student or others. For additional information, visit the Division of Student Affairs website. Readmission Readmission Graduate and professional students seeking readmission to the University should consult with the policies and procedures specified by their department or school. The decision to re-admit a student will be based on a consideration of the best interests of both the student and the University. Summer Courses Summer Courses In graduate programs, summer courses may be an integral part of the curriculum. Graduate and professional students should consult with their schools or departments for specific policies regarding summer courses. Time-to-Degree Time-to-Degree Graduate and professional students should consult their school or department for specific policies regarding time-to-degree. Transcripts Transcripts All current graduate and professional students submit requests for academic transcripts at bc.edu/myservices. Alumni should visit bc.edu/transcript for directions on the transcript request process. Students and alumni will be directed to the National Student Clearinghouse transcript fulfillment website as our vendor for transcripts. For more information, visit bc.edu/transcript. Transcript/Diploma Holds The University will not issue diplomas or release transcripts for any graduate or professional student with an outstanding financial obligation to the University, which includes failure to complete a mandatory loan exit interview. Transfer of Credit Transfer of Credit Graduate and professional students should consult their school or department for specific policies regarding transfer of credit. University Communication Policies and Student Responsibilities University Communication Policies and Student Responsibilities Official communications of the University with its currently enrolled graduate and professional students, including notices of academic and administrative matters and communications from faculty and administrative staff, may be sent via postal service, campus mail, or e-mail. To assure that these communications arrive in a timely manner, all enrolled students have the following responsibilities: Postal service and Campus mail: For purposes of written communication, the student’s local and permanent addresses on record at the Office of Student Services will be regarded as the student’s official local and permanent residences. All students have a responsibility to provide both local and permanent mailing addresses and to enter corrections at bc.edu/myservices if the addresses are not accurate in University records. Students should review their address record for accuracy at the beginning of each semester and again soon after submitting any corrections. E-mail: The University recognizes and uses electronic mail as an appropriate medium for official communication. The University provides all enrolled students with e-mail accounts as well as access to e-mail services from computer stations at various locations on campus. All students are expected to access their e-mail accounts regularly, to check for official University communications, and to respond as necessary to such communications. Students may forward their e-mail messages from their University e-mail accounts to non-university e-mail systems. In such cases, students shall be solely responsible for all consequences arising from such forwarding arrangements, including any failure by the non-university system to deliver or retain official University communications. Students should send test messages to and from their University e-mail account on a regular basis, to confirm that their e-mail service is functioning reliably. All student responses to official e-mail communications from the University must contain the student’s University e-mail address in the “From:” and “Reply To:” lines and should originate from the student’s University e-mail account, to assure that the response can be recognized as a message from a member of the University community. Withdrawal from a Course Withdrawal from a Course Graduate and professional students who withdraw from a course after the drop/add period (after the first seven class-days of the semester) will have a “W” recorded in the grade column of their academic record. To withdraw from a course all students must go to the Academic Forms page of the Student Services website, submit the online form that will then be routed to the Office of the Academic Dean for their school for review. Students will not be permitted to withdraw from courses after the published deadline. Students who are still registered at this point will receive a final grade for the semester. Withdrawal from Boston College Withdrawal from Boston College Graduate and professional students who wish to withdraw from Boston College in good standing are required to submit an online Withdrawal Form, found on the Academic Forms page of the Student Services website, which will be routed to the appropriate Academic Dean’s Office for review and processing. In the case of students who are dismissed for academic or disciplinary reasons, the Academic Dean will process the withdrawal. University Awards and Honors University Awards and Honors Please refer to your school or department website for information about awards and honors. Distance Education Policies and Procedures Boston College offers a variety of distance education opportunities, designed to offer students a flexible, online alternative to traditional on-campus programs and courses. In support of Boston College’s distance education initiatives, BC is an approved member of the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements, or SARA. As described by SARA, the network provides a voluntary, regional approach to state oversight of postsecondary distance education. When states join SARA, they agree to follow uniform processes for approving their eligible institutions' participation. These policies help protect students and provide benefits to both states and institutions carrying out distance education in multiple states. Print Open All Close All Accreditation Accreditation Boston College is accredited by the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE) and has been accredited by NECHE since 1935. NECHE is recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education as a reliable authority on the quality of education and adheres to the standards of the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. As part of NECHE guidelines, member institutions undergo a peer review process every ten years which involves the preparation of a comprehensive self-study. Boston College’s most recent full review for accreditation occurred in March 2017. Inquiries regarding Boston College’s accreditation status should be directed to the Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties, Boston College, 270 Hammond Street, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 (617-552-3260); individuals may also contact the New England Commission of Higher Education, 3 Burlington Woods Drive, Suite 100, Burlington, MA 01803 (781-425-7785). Additional accreditation-related information may be found at Boston College’s Accreditation Information site. Authorization Authorization Boston College has been approved to participate in the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (SARA), which permits the university to offer distance education programming in 49 SARA member states, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Puerto Rico. Note that courses and programs incorporating a “supervised field experience” (sometimes also referred to as an “out-of-state learning placement”) are also covered by the provisions of SARA if under the oversight of a supervisor, mentor, faculty member, or other qualified professional, located in the host state, who has a direct or indirect reporting responsibility to the institution where the student is enrolled. Examples include practica, student teaching, or internships. Non-SARA States California does not participate in SARA; however, the California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education does not regulate non-public higher education institutions that are degree granting, non-profit, and accredited, and so Boston College may offer distance education programming to students in California. Coverage and Limitations of SARA Coverage and Limitations of SARA As described by NC-SARA, SARA only applies to postsecondary distance education activities conducted across state lines; it does not apply to distance education activity inside the SARA-participating institution’s home state or to on-ground campuses. SARA does not affect the applicability of general purpose state laws; similarly, SARA has no effect on state licensing or certification requirements which often require additional approval from the applicable state board. Distance Education Programs Leading to Professional Licensure Distance Education Programs Leading to Professional Licensure Boston College is authorized, pursuant to SARA, to enroll students in online programs in the SARA states and territories. Boston College makes every effort to ensure information about educational requirements for licensure or certification information is current; however, state requirements often change. Separate from educational requirements, state licensure boards may require applicants to complete professional examinations, background checks, years of professional experience, jurisprudence exams, etc. If you are planning to pursue professional licensure or certification in a state other than Massachusetts, it is strongly recommended that you: contact the appropriate licensing entity in that state to seek information and guidance regarding licensure or certification requirements before beginning an academic program check with departmental personnel in your specific program if you have questions about whether an online program meets licensure requirements in a specific state review additional information on state requirements for all programs that lead to licensure which can be accessed at Boston College’s central repository of Notices and Disclosures Again, SARA does not provide reciprocity for state professional licensing requirements. Academic programs and individual graduates must meet standards set by a state’s licensure requirements in order for a graduate to be eligible for a license. Please see the table for license eligibility by state. Contact information by state is sourced from NC-SARA and is updated twice per year. Resources for Distance Education Students Resources for Distance Education Students Distance education students at Boston College have access to a wide range of student and academic services, for example: Agora, Institutional Portal Boston College Bookstore Boston College Libraries Student Services University Catalog International Students International students are advised to understand and be apprised of the rules, regulations, and requirements related to distance education in their country of residence, particularly: If the country will recognize an online certificate or degree; Whether the program meets licensure or certification requirements in the country; and If the country charges any additional taxes, withholdings, or fees associated with online distance education programs. International students are encouraged to research the policies pertaining to degree recognition in their home country, or anticipated country of residence, and to contact the program-specific administrator at Boston College for additional information prior to enrolling in a Boston College distance education program. Veterans Boston College is approved by the National Association of State Approving Agencies, advocates for quality education and training programs for our nation's veterans. Complaint Procedures for Students Enrolled in Distance Education Programming Complaint Procedures for Students Enrolled in Distance Education Programming Boston College makes available a variety of means to resolve distance education-related issues. A student enrolled in distance education must first attempt to resolve their complaint with their individual department/program or dean’s office. In those instances for when a complaint cannot be resolved at the individual department/program or dean’s office level, the student may contact the Office of Student Services for additional direction and/or questions. Boston College Contact Jessica Greene Waul House 308, 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 (617) 552-0163, jessica.greene.2@bc.edu When a distance education-related complaint cannot be resolved at the department/program or dean’s office level, the following pathways to resolution apply: For Massachusetts Residents and Online Students Located in Non-SARA Member States or Territories You may file a consumer complaint with the Massachusetts Attorney General’s Office (AGO) by using the consumer complaint form. The AGO consumer complaint form should be used by students who are located in: Massachusetts Non-SARA Member States or Territories (e.g., California, Guam) For Online Students Located in SARA Member States or Territories You may file a complaint with the Massachusetts Department of Higher Education (DHE) by using the DHE’s SARA complaint form. Please note that for SARA complaints, students are explicitly required to exhaust Boston College’s available complaint procedures before filing a SARA complaint with the DHE. The DHE complaint form should be used by students who are located in SARA member states and territories. This includes all students who are located in SARA member states and territories for the purposes of completing out-of-state learning placements, such as internships, practica, clinical experiences, etc. in SARA member states and territories outside Massachusetts. The SARA complaint process is as follows: Students must first attempt to resolve their complaint using internal administrative procedures offered by the SARA institution. After all administrative remedies have been exhausted with the MA-SARA institution, the student may submit a SARA Complaint to the DHE via the SARA complaint form. The DHE shall send a copy of the complaint to the institution that is the subject of the complaint; Within 30 days of the date that the DHE sends a copy of the complaint to the institution, the institution must provide a written response to the student and the DHE. For more information, please refer to the DHE’s Complaint Policy and Process. Student Mobility Student Mobility A requirement of SARA membership, and as directed by current United States Department of Education regulations as presented in the 2019 Higher Education Authorization, institutions must record in which state a student is located while enrolled in a distance education or correspondence course and apply the method to determine location consistently and to all students. (State Authorization 600.9(c)(1)(i)). SARA and federal regulations consider a student’s location to be the state, territory, or district where the student is located while receiving the instruction; it does not refer to the student’s official state of residence. For prospective students, Boston College's admissions systems reflect the local address as submitted by the student on the student’s application, and this information serves as the source for “student location.” In the event that this information is not populated, home address information serves as the source for “student location.” For enrolled students, Boston College’s student information system (UIS) reflects the local address as recorded at the time of the student’s initial enrollment, and this information serves as the source for “student location.” In the event that this information is not populated, home address information serves as the source for “student location.” Changing one’s location prior to enrollment (i.e., during the application process) or while enrolled does not adversely impact a student’s academic standing although students should be mindful that, if interested or enrolled in a program leading to professional licensure, a new state of location may have licensure regulations that are not met by Boston College’s curriculum. Students should review disclosures on professional licensure and confer with their academic advisor and/or their academic program’s department personnel in the event of a location change outside of Massachusetts. In addition to recording location information related to academic programming, location is also recorded when students participate in learning placements outside of the classroom such as clinical experiences and internships. This information is typically tracked by program departments. Applicants may update their location information through the application system appropriate to their program or may contact their program’s Office of Admission. Enrolled students may update their location information at any time via Boston College’s institutional portal, Agora. In Agora, under the "Account and Personal Info" section, click Address/Phone/Emergency Contact and follow the on-screen instructions. Support for Agora may be found at: bc.edu/content/bc-web/offices/its/support/account-network-access/agora.html. Student Verification for Distance Education Courses Student Verification for Distance Education Courses Boston College employs a multi-pronged student identity verification system to help ensure that the identity of students who are admitted and enroll in distance education courses or programs are the same students who participate in and complete those courses or programs for academic credit. At the time of application, all candidates must affirm that the contents of their submission are valid and reflect their own educational, professional, and related credentials, experiences, and accomplishments. At the time of matriculation, University students enrolled in on-the-ground and hybrid courses/programs are issued a photo identification card (the “Eagle-One Card”) through the Office of Student Services that serves as the official ID card of Boston College. Proof of identification such as a driver's license or passport must be presented in order to be issued an Eagle-One Card. Students must keep this card available at all times and cards must be presented to authorized University officials upon request; falsifying, altering, or misusing one’s own or another’s Eagle-One Card in any way is strictly prohibited and illegal. Faculty-student engagement is a fundamental dimension of a program’s curriculum, and thus, regardless of a course’s mode of delivery, the frequent and meaningful interaction between an instructor and student serves as an effective method of student identity assurance. Additionally, course experiences and assignments that encourage student-to-student interaction are also employed, principally to enhance learning, but also to serve as another means by which to verify the identity of students (peers and classmates). An additional means of assuring student identity are the verification tools available to instructors via Boston College’s learning management system, Canvas. As students access course materials and discussion groups via Canvas, virtual communication technologies that integrate with Canvas, such as discussion boards, facilitate an instructor’s knowledge of a student’s writing style, ability, and tone, thereby helping to spotlight deviations. Identity verification is also supplemented via video conferencing by allowing instructors to confirm a student’s identity via the comparison of the video image with the student’s Eagle-One card image. Noteworthy is that, if necessary, IP addresses used to access Canvas can be investigated (for example, if it is suspected that an individual is attempting to present themselves as the student officially enrolled in the course); other analytics, such as page views and log-in dates/times are also available for review. Also available to instructors, and specific to online courses, are two additional tools, Respondus and Proctorio. Respondus is typically used when an instructor’s goal is to “lock down” the online testing environment within Canvas by securing students’ browsers; students are unable to copy, print, access other applications, or visit other websites during an online exam. Proctorio serves as the most comprehensive live, remote proctoring tool available to Boston College instructors; it monitors audio and video and provides a full secure browser, thereby preventing web usage and the related during an exam. Boston College’s Center for Teaching Excellence and Center for Digital Innovation in Learning offer support and training for these tools; there is no cost to instructors or students for the use of any of these resources. Special Programs Boston College offers a number of special programs, including the following: Print Open All Close All Capstone Seminar Program Capstone Seminar Program The Capstone Seminar Program helps students to "cap off" their Boston College experience by a review of their education and a preview of their major life commitments after college. Capstone offers several integrative seminars each semester exclusively for seniors in all schools. The Capstone seminars explore the struggle to discern your own calling in life as you integrate the four crucial areas of work, relationships, society, and spirituality. Capstone seminars are taught by two dozen faculty from 20 different departments and all four colleges—Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, Carroll School of Management, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, and Connell School of Nursing. Seminars are limited to 15 to 19 students. All courses are listed between UNCP5500 and UNCP5599 in the Boston College Catalog. Many Capstone Seminars are also cross-listed in the home department of the professor and can be taken for elective credit by majors or minors in that department. Department regulations vary. You may take only one Capstone course during your academic career. Capstones cannot be taken as Pass/Fail. If a course requires permission, contact the instructor directly. For other information, contact the Program Director, Fr. James Weiss at james.weiss@bc.edu or see the University Courses section of this Catalog. You may also reference the Capstone Program website with full course descriptions and syllabi at bc.edu/capstone. Faculty and Staff Children Exchange Program (FACHEX) Faculty and Staff Children Exchange Program (FACHEX) FACHEX is an undergraduate tuition remission program for children of full-time faculty, administrators, and staff at participating Jesuit colleges and universities. The program for BC employees is administered through the Benefits Office in cooperation with the Office of Enrollment Management. For Boston College employees, five consecutive years of full-time employment are required for establishing eligibility for the program. Employees must complete the FACHEX Certification Form available on the Boston College FACHEX website and return it to the Benefits Office for processing before December 1. Only the Benefits Office can certify an employee child as FACHEX eligible in the FACHEX Database, and this form contains the required information for entry. Employees should review the FACHEX website for information regarding rules of the program. In addition, if an employee’s child is interested in applying to any institutions participating in FACHEX, they should be aware of any applicable admission deadlines or requirements at those schools. Contact information for the FACHEX Coordinator at each participating institution can be found on the FACHEX website. BC does not maintain admissions policies of other schools in the program and cannot advise on their behalf. FACHEX awards tend to be extremely limited in number and are highly competitive in terms of academic selectivity. As a result, there are no guarantees to the children of any given faculty, administrators, or staff that they will be able to utilize the FACHEX benefit at the institution of their choice. Also, many participating schools only consider incoming freshman applicants for FACHEX, so transfer students or upperclassmen may not be eligible. Employees at other participating institutions should ask their respective Benefits Offices for information on requirements for FACHEX eligibility. Parents and students should then visit the Boston College FACHEX website to view the necessary procedures and conditions for FACHEX applicants. Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program The Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program is an undergraduate academic merit program that annually awards full-tuition scholarships and fully-funded, GPSP-sponsored summer programs to 15 incoming freshmen students. Early Decision and Regular Decision applicants who submit their BC applications by the November 1 priority scholarship deadline will be considered. There is no separate application for this scholarship. Students are selected on the basis of superior academic achievement and promise, leadership potential, and a demonstrated commitment to service to society. The Program offers these extraordinary individuals the richest academic experience available at Boston College, one that encourages the pursuit of excellence both within and beyond the University walls. Presidential Scholars receive a full-tuition merit scholarship. In addition to enrollment in one of the University's several departmental honors programs, during the academic year Scholars meet weekly to discuss their area of concentrations (science and pre-med, humanities, political science and international studies, and management, economics and finance), to share experiences and find greater wisdom in applying for study grants, language programs, internships, and fellowships, and to partake in the cultural life of Boston at the theater or the symphony. To complement the emphasis on ideas and ideals they encounter in their classes, and in their summer programs, Presidential Scholars also give presentations to their fellow scholars about a variety of their experiences including study abroad, Advanced Study Grants, internships, and thesis writing. These presentations serve as additional avenues of inspiration to younger scholars, offering them a glimpse of the opportunities that are open to them throughout their college careers. In addition, these presentations offer the upperclassmen scholars the opportunity to develop and refine their public speaking skills. During the spring semester freshman Presidential Scholars travel to a country in Europe, while the sophomore Scholars travel to a country in Latin America. These trips are intended to be the starting point in the Scholars’ journey of becoming “global citizens.” In their freshman year, they spend a week in a non-English speaking European country, so as to realize skills that meet the challenge of linguistic differences. In their sophomore year, they have an immersion experience of the social and economic challenges for our neighbors to the South. In the summers, Scholars are challenged to test and apply what they have learned at Boston College to the world beyond the campus by participating in experiential learning programs focusing on service learning (after the first year), independent international study and travel (after the second year), and professional internship (after the third year). Through this carefully balanced combination of academic rigor and co-curricular opportunities and challenges, the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program seeks to develop exceptional scholars and leaders for the Boston College community and far beyond. Office of Global Education (OGE) Office of Global Education (OGE) Global education is an integral part of the undergraduate experience at BC. Each year approximately 1,200 students—or nearly 50% of a given graduating class—spend a semester, summer, or academic year studying, interning, conducting research, and/or volunteering abroad. BC collaborates with a variety of partner universities worldwide to administer programs in about 30 countries. To apply for semester/academic year programs abroad, students are required to have a 3.0 GPA and be in good academic and disciplinary standing. The OGE also offers around 30 short-term, faculty-led summer programs and internships that are open to both BC and non-BC students and have no minimum GPA requirement. Students should begin planning to go abroad as early as their freshman year. Information on the OGE website, Study Abroad 101 group meetings, and individual meetings with OGE advisors help students choose the best program for their academic needs. For more information, please visit bc.edu/global-education. The OGE is located in Hovey House (258 Hammond Street, 617-552-3827). Academic Year Programs* *Note: “BC in —” programs denote those options where there is a resident director or on-the ground support staff in addition to services offered by the host institution. Services range from full-time coordinators to more limited support. Argentina BC in Buenos Aires: Pontificia Universidad Católica Argentina (UCA) Semester or full-year program at this excellent private institution located in downtown Buenos Aires. Offerings include arts and music, economics and business, law and political science, humanities, and communication. During the study abroad program in Buenos Aires, BC students can participate in an internship in order to gain professional experience, while becoming further immersed in Argentine culture and the Spanish language. BC in Buenos Aires: Universidad Torcuato Di Tella Semester or full-year program in Buenos Aires at one of Argentina's most prestigious private universities. Offerings include business, economics, political science, international studies, journalism, and history. During the study abroad program in Buenos Aires, BC students can participate in an internship in order to gain professional experience, while becoming further immersed in Argentine culture and the Spanish language. Australia Australian Catholic University Semester or year program at Australia’s premier Catholic university. Open only to CSON students, who study on ACU’s Melbourne campus. Monash University One of the Australian Group of Eight schools (most distinguished research institutions). Semester or full-year program in a suburb of Melbourne. Offers courses across all disciplines. Notre Dame University Semester or full-year program at a small Jesuit university in Fremantle, Western Australia, with a wide range of courses across all subjects, particularly in the arts and humanities. Optional Australian studies course with field trips. University of Melbourne One of the Group of Eight schools located in the heart of the city. Semester or full-year program. Exceptional in most subject areas. University of New South Wales Semester or full-year program at one of the Group of Eight schools located in Sydney, with broad offerings across all disciplines. Internship opportunities and an optional pre-semester program to study the environment at the Great Barrier Reef. University of Queensland Group of Eight school located in Brisbane. Semester or full-year program with a broad curriculum. Exceptional in all subject areas, especially biology, marine studies, psychology, business, and economics. Research opportunities for students. University of Western Australia Group of Eight school located in Perth. Semester or full-year program with a broad, excellent curriculum. Strong in all subject areas—particularly sciences, environmental sciences, social sciences, business, education, and music. University of Sydney Group of Eight schools located in Sydney. Semester or full-year program with a broad curriculum. The majority of students enroll in arts and social sciences, business, science, engineering, information technologies, or health sciences. Austria Vienna University of Economics and Business (WU) Semester or full-year program at one of Europe’s top business schools, with courses taught in English for CSOM or Economics students. No prior German language required. Brazil BC in Rio de Janeiro: Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio de Janeiro (PUC-Rio) Semester or full-year program with courses in all disciplines. For students with elementary, intermediate, and advanced Portuguese as well as advanced Spanish skills. Offers an English-language track in Brazilian and Latin American culture with a mandatory Portuguese course. Chile Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile (PUC) Semester or full-year program in Santiago at Chile's premier Catholic university. Courses include humanities, social sciences, economics, education, business, and law. Universidad Alberto Hurtado (UAH) Semester or full-year program at a small, prestigious Jesuit institution in Santiago. Good for social sciences, humanities, philosophy, business, literature, and pre-law. China Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUNK) Semester or full-year program in a college system setting, with a wide range of courses taught in English. CUHK offers classes in business administration, education, engineering, the natural and social sciences, as well as a summer academic research opportunity (SURP). Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST) Semester or full-year direct enrollment program with a strong focus on business/management for CSOM students only. On-campus housing. Courses taught primarily in English. Nanjing University (NJU) Semester or full-year direct enrollment opportunity. Students may enroll in Chinese instructed classes, or a number of English-taught courses in a range of disciplines on the Xianlin campus. Chinese language courses (elementary to advanced levels) are offered. Students receive support through a buddy program and reside on campus. University of Hong Kong (HKU) Semester or full-year program suitable for most students, especially those concentrating in the humanities and sciences. Courses taught primarily in English. Croatia BC in Croatia: War, Peace, and Reconciliation Semester program based at the European Center for the Study of War and Peace. Students take five courses and choose between an internship, independent research, or language course, with the potential to earn major/minor elective credit toward International Studies, Philosophy, Theology, History, Faith, Peace and Justice. Czech Republic Charles University: East and Central European Studies Semester or full-year program set in Prague. Founded in 1348, Charles is one of the oldest universities in Europe and the premier university in the Czech Republic. Courses are taught in English and are offered in a variety of subject areas, with a focus on Central and Eastern Europe. Denmark Copenhagen Business School Semester or full-year program with courses taught in English for CSOM or economics students. Copenhagen University Semester or full-year program with courses taught in English in the humanities, social sciences, law, health science, natural science, and theology. Ecuador BC in Quito: Universidad San Francisco de Quito (USFQ) Semester or full-year program with course offerings across the disciplines. Science and Community health course available for CSON and pre-med students. Students participate in service work as part of the mandatory resident director course. The program includes a trip to the Galapagos Islands and a weekend with a family in an indigenous village. Egypt American University in Cairo Semester or full-year direct enrollment. Courses are taught in English. BC students are strongly encouraged to enroll in language classes through the Department of Arabic Language Instruction. Students reside on campus in New Cairo. England BC in London: King's College London, University of London Semester or full-year program in London with course offerings across the disciplines including a pre-medical course track. BC in London: London School of Economics (LSE) Full-year program only in social sciences, including economics, finance, political science, and sociology. BC in London: Queen Mary, University of London Semester or full-year program in London’s vibrant and diverse East End, with courses across the disciplines. BC in London: Royal Holloway, University of London Semester or full-year program with a suburban, parkland campus, and a wide range of course offerings for MCAS and CSOM students. BC in London: School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS), University of London Semester or full-year program in central London with specialist studies of Africa, Asia, and the Near and Middle East, including history, languages, politics, religion, and sociology. BC in London: University College London, University of London Semester or full-year program for MCAS students at the University of London's top-ranked college in central London. University of Bristol Semester or full-year program located in Bristol, England, with courses across the disciplines. Durham University Full-year program offering courses across many disciplines including English, history, philosophy, theology, economics, and the sciences. Lancaster University Semester or full-year program with courses across the disciplines, including courses in the sciences for pre-medical students and in management for CSOM students. University of Liverpool Semester or full-year program with courses across the disciplines, including humanities, sciences, and management. University of Oxford, Mansfield College Full-year program only. Suitable for students in MCAS interested in small, independent study. France BC in Paris: Université de Paris Semester or full-year program based at the University of Paris. BC students attend the University of Paris IV (Sorbonne) or the University of Paris IX (Dauphine). Offers a wide range of disciplines. Courses are taught in French, with a small number taught in English at the University of Paris IX (Dauphine). BC in Paris: L’Institut de Langue et de Culture Française (ILCF) A French language institute connected to L’Institut Catholique de Paris (ICP). The French-taught semester program offers courses in French language, phonetics, grammar, and conversation. English-taught courses in other subjects are available. BC in Paris: L'Institut Catholique de Paris (ICP) Semester or full-year program offering French-taught courses in humanities, education, theology, and philosophy. BC in Paris: L’Ecole Supérieure de Commerce (ESCP) Semester program based at the oldest business school in France. Students take courses in international business, finance, economics, and marketing. Courses taught in French and/or English. BC in Paris: L’Institut d’Etudes Politiques de Paris (Sciences Po) Semester or full-year program offering courses in business, history, communications, law, journalism, political science, international relations, economics, and European studies. Courses taught in French and English. Germany Eichstätt Catholic University Spring semester or full-year program at a small university located near Munich, with course offerings in arts and sciences, business, and education. Intensive pre-semester language program in Munich. Offers beginning and advanced track programs. Frankfurt School of Business and Management Semester or full-year program offering courses in business and law. Courses are taught in English. Excellent opportunity for business and economics majors in Frankfurt. Students are required to take a German language course. Universität Tübingen Spring semester or full-year program at one of Germany's premier universities for students with German language skills. Courses are available in English and German and cover a variety of subject areas. Greece American College of Greece (ACG) Semester or full-year direct enrollment program in Athens. Course offerings from a wide range of curricula taught in English with highlights in business, communication, and psychology. University housing, activities, service, and internship opportunities. Ireland BC in Cork: University College Cork Semester or full-year program offering a broad selection of courses in a wide range of disciplines including business, arts, and sciences. Fall semester students take a university early start program. BC in Dublin: National University of Ireland Maynooth Semester or full-year program in a small campus environment outside of Dublin. Mandatory Irish Studies course taught by the BC resident director. BC in Dublin: Trinity College Dublin Semester or full-year program at one of Europe’s oldest and most prestigious institutions located in the center of Dublin. Wide range of courses across all disciplines. Mandatory Irish Studies course taught by the BC resident director. Some courses are approved for CSON students. BC in Dublin: University College Dublin (UCD) Semester or full-year program with offerings across the disciplines, including Arts and Commerce. Students in the Arts and Sciences faculties select two departments in which to take their courses. Commerce students take most classes within the Quinn School of Business. Mandatory Irish Studies course taught by the BC resident director. BC in Galway: National University of Ireland, Galway Semester or full-year program with course offerings across the disciplines. Italy BC in Parma: University of Parma Semester or full-year program at the University of Parma, with a wide range of disciplines offered. Courses taught in Italian. BC in Parma: L'Istituto Dante Alighieri, Parma Semester or full-year program at the Istituto Dante Alighieri, offering a range of courses taught in English. Bocconi University, Milan Semester or full-year program based at one of the leading business schools in Europe. Courses taught in English and Italian. Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore (UCSC) Semester or full-year program located at the Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore (“Cattolica”) in Milan. The largest Catholic university in the world, courses are offered in both English and Italian. Students are required to take an intensive pre-semester Italian language course. Venice International University Semester or full-year program located at Venice International University, an international higher education and research center co-run by 18 consortium members from around the world. Based on San Servolo Island, a few minutes from St. Mark's Square in the heart of Venice. Students take courses taught in English in the social sciences and international studies. Japan Sophia University Spring semester or full-year program at a Jesuit sister university, with course offerings in English covering a wide range of disciplines. University housing in Tokyo. Waseda University Spring semester or full-year program with course offerings in English. University housing and homestay options in Tokyo. Mexico Universidad Iberoamericana: Mexico City Semester or full-year program for students in most disciplines at this private, Jesuit institution famed for research and social engagement. Courses are taught in Spanish. Morocco Al Akhawayn University Semester or full-year program in Ifrane, with course offerings in English. Excellent opportunity for business students and those looking to study in francophone North Africa. Recommended for Islamic Studies and intensive Arabic language. Nepal BC in Kathmandu: Center for Buddhist Studies at RYI Semester or full-year program offers an in-depth study of Buddhist philosophy. Highly recommended for students interested in comparative religion, theology, and philosophy. Courses in Tibetan or colloquial Nepali language offered. Homestays with local families. The Netherlands Amsterdam University College Semester or full-year program with courses offered in English. Classes are available in the humanities, natural sciences, and social sciences. University College Utrecht Semester or full-year program with courses offered in English. Classes are available in the humanities, natural sciences, and social sciences. University of Amsterdam Semester or full-year program with English courses available in the humanities and social sciences. New Zealand University of Otago Semester or full-year program at one of New Zealand’s top-ranked universities. Exceptional course offerings across the disciplines, especially environmental sciences, business, theology, arts, and humanities. Norway University of Bergen Semester or full-year program with a wide-ranging curriculum in English with strengths in natural and marine sciences. The Philippines Ateneo de Manila University Semester or full-year program at a leading Jesuit university, with a wide-ranging curriculum in English. Good opportunity for CSOM students, as well as those interested in service. Students reside on campus. Poland Jagiellonian University: Center for European Studies Semester or full-year program at a prestigious Polish university. Courses are taught in English in politics, sociology, Polish language, literature, and culture at the University’s Center for European Studies. Portugal NOVA School of Business and Economics Semester or full-year program at the NOVA School of Business and Economics (Nova SBE), which is located just outside of Lisbon in Carcavelos. NOVA is strictly a business and economics school and does not offer courses outside of these fields. Classes are taught in English. Universidade Católica Portuguesa Students take courses at the Lisbon campus, with classes offered in English in the fields of economics, business, and finance. There is also a limited number of courses offered in other fields through their Liberal Arts Curriculum. Scotland BC in Glasgow: University of Glasgow Semester or full-year program offering courses across all disciplines including economics, business, the sciences, and pre-med. University of Edinburgh Semester or full-year program offering courses across all disciplines, including humanities, sciences, and management. Singapore National University of Singapore (NUS) Semester or full-year program at a leading research university. Wide variety of courses instructed in English. South Africa BC in Makhanda: Rhodes University Semester or full-year program in Makhanda (formerly Grahamstown) with courses across the disciplines. Supervised service-learning placements through the BC program. BC in Cape Town: University of Cape Town Semester or full-year program in Cape Town with courses across the disciplines. Recommended for students majoring in the sciences, business, and humanities. Volunteer and service opportunities available. South Korea Seoul National University Semester or full-year program at a leading research university with a range of English-taught courses. Opportunities to study Korean language. Sogang University Semester or full-year program at a Jesuit university in Seoul, with a range of courses offered in English. Opportunity for intensive Korean language study. On-campus housing. Spain BC in Barcelona: Business and Culture Spring-only program at the Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), designed specifically for CSOM major/minor students. Students take a mandatory core course, focusing on the neighborhoods of Barcelona, and a mixture of additional courses in business, the social sciences, and humanities. BC in Barcelona: ESADE Semester program in Barcelona offering business courses. English-taught curriculum. BC in Barcelona: Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF) Semester or full-year program in Barcelona offering courses in Spanish in many disciplines, except the sciences. BC in Granada: Granada Institute of International Studies (GRIIS) Semester or full-year program with courses focusing on Spanish language, culture, history, literature, art history, economics, and politics. BC in Madrid: Carlos III Immersion and English Tracks Based at the Universidad Carlos III de Madrid (UC3M), semester or full-year program for students in most disciplines, especially in the social sciences and business. Immersion and English tracks are available, based on students’ level of Spanish proficiency. BC in Madrid: Universidad Pontificia Comillas Semester or full-year program for students in many disciplines at this private, Jesuit institution. The ICADE campus offers courses in business, economics, and law. The Sociales campus offers courses in social sciences, humanities, and international relations. Universidad de Deusto Semester or full-year program in Spain's Basque country on campuses in San Sebastián and Bilbao. San Sebastián offers courses in business, economics, literature, sociology, philosophy, and communications. Bilbao offers courses in most disciplines. Taiwan Fu Jen Catholic University (FJCU) Students may enroll in Chinese instructed classes, or a number of English-taught courses in a range of disciplines. Evening courses and tutoring in Mandarin are also available. Students receive support through a buddy program, spiritual and pastoral care residing in on-campus dormitories in New Taipei City. United Arab Emirates American University of Sharjah (AUS) Semester or full-year program in a diverse, English-language university in the heart of the UAE with a large international population. Courses available in the arts, humanities, sciences, languages, and management. Summer Programs Faculty-led summer programs are open to undergraduate and graduate students with OIP approval. Programs are taught in English, with the exception of language courses. A sampling of programs listed are subject to change on an annual basis: Oceania Sydney, Australia Restorative Justice and Prison Reform in Global Contexts: Australia (3 credits) Asia Seoul, South Korea Contentious History and the Politics of Contemporary Korea: Decolonization, Division, Development, and Democratization (3 credits) Europe Aix-En-Provence, France Provence: Art, Culture, Cinema, Diversity (3 credits) Athens, Greece Borders and Refugees: The Ethics of Migration (3 credits) Ballyvaughan, Ireland Imagination and Creativity and the Irish Landscape (3 credits) Copenhagen, Denmark Principles of Public Health: In the Happiest Place (3 credits) The Ethics of Capitalism: Flourishing in a Commercial Society (3 credits) Lisbon, Portugal The European Union and Lisbon as an economic, political, and cultural gateway (3 credits) Madrid, Spain Spanish Art History: from Al-Andalus to Picasso (3 credits) Paris, France Modernism in Paris (3 credits) Paris, France and London, England Which is Better? An Economic Comparison of Health Care in France, the UK, and the USA (3 credits) Parma, Italy Food, Power, and Politics (3 credits) Financial Accounting (3 credits) Prague, Czech Republic Toward Deep Subjectivity: Philosophy of the Person II (3 credits) Rome, Italy Art and Patronage in Renaissance and Baroque Rome and Beyond (3 credits) Saints and Sinners (3 credits) Venice, Italy The Imaginary City: Why Writers Love Venice (3 credits) History of the Italian Mediterranean: Una Faccia, Una Razza (3 credits) Middle East Haifa, Israel Studying An Innovative Economy: Israel and the Start-Up Ecosystem (3 credits) Internships Abroad Dublin, Madrid, Paris, Prague, Shanghai, Singapore, and Tokyo Eight-week, independent internship program offers students the opportunity to experience the local work culture first-hand. OGE staff work with students to design the best possible internship based on student interests, majors, and previous work experience. (1 credit) Other Opportunities Overseas Teaching Program Students perform pre-practica or full practica in elementary or secondary student teaching abroad (see Campion 102 Practicum Office) Applied Psychology and Human Development Practica Abroad Lynch School students can do an Applied Psychology and Human Development Practicum while studying abroad. See the Undergraduate Dean's Office (Campion 104) for details. Washington Semester BC offers a semester-long internship program in cooperation with American University in Washington, DC. The program combines academic courses with internship placements in legislative, executive, and interest-group offices in the nation's capital. The academic requirements for participation are the same as those for study abroad, and Washington semester programs are administered as approved external programs through the OGE. The program can be combined with a study abroad experience. SEA Education Association Program The university offers a semester-long opportunity with SEA Education Association (SEA), an Environmental Studies program, which challenges students intellectually and physically by combining a sailing experience with the study of the deep ocean. The interdisciplinary program tracks are designed for students who wish to gain a comprehensive understanding of the world’s oceans, as well as explore a specific ocean-related theme including a shore component. Students, especially those majoring in the natural sciences, can complete a semester with SEA as an alternative to study abroad or in combination with another semester program. SEA programs are administered as approved external programs through the OGE. Pre-Health Program Pre-Health Program Medical, dental, veterinary, and other health professions schools welcome qualified students from diversified academic backgrounds and from any major from an accredited college or university. Thus, the student planning to pursue a health related career may choose a major field of study in any one of the humanities, natural sciences, or social sciences. Please note that medical and dental schools assume that students major in a field that plays to their strengths, interests, and passion. Below is a brief summary of the program. For detailed information, visit bc.edu/premed. Health professions graduate schools expect each applicant to be well grounded in the fundamental sciences and to be familiar, through practical experience, with laboratory techniques. For these reasons, most health profession schools require one year of coursework at the college level in the following disciplines: General Chemistry with lab Organic Chemistry with lab Biology with lab Physics with lab (either Algebra-based or Calculus-based) English In addition, one year of mathematics is usually strongly recommended. Some medical schools require calculus and/or statistics. About half of the allopathic medical schools require biochemistry. Please check your target graduate professional schools for specific requirements and recommendations. Some health professions graduate schools have additional requirements, such as, microbiology, physiology, and/or animal nutrition (vet), for example. Academic Plan Four (+) Year Program: Given the important demand for health-related experiences and service to the poor through meaningful volunteer experiences, students often select to do the 4-year cycle. The majority of pre-health students (76%) at BC, as well as other institutions, are applying to graduate schools in the health professions at the end of their senior year—or later. Students who elect to apply as a senior have the opportunity to pursue other interests and/or opportunities (e.g., study abroad, completing a thesis, minoring in a non-science discipline, volunteer work, or research) thus potentially making them more attractive candidates. The four year option also allows for greater flexibility in preparing and studying for entrance exams (MCAT, DAT, GRE) in order to reflect their best effort. The average age for students beginning graduate school in the health professions is approximately 25; therefore, the number of applicants taking one or more (gap) growth year(s) is increasing. For a complete overview of the required pre-health curriculum, course numbers, and recommended course sequencing, please visit the B.C. Pre-Health website (bc.edu/premed). Three Year or Four Year Sequencing Three Year Program: Undergraduates who plan to matriculate to health professions graduate school the fall after they graduate will need to complete all required courses (see above) by the end of junior year. Applications are filed the summer before senior year. While simultaneously taking junior year course work, we recommend that students study for and take the Medical College Admissions Test (MCAT) preferably by the end of spring semester (late April/May) of their junior year. Students taking the Dental Admissions Test (DAT) are encouraged to take it in early summer (e.g., May/June). In addition, health professions graduate schools expect a high level of academic performance, significant exposure to the health field, through clinical placements and shadowing as well as other meaningful extra-curricular experiences. Clearly this is a great deal to accomplish in three years and, for this reason, increasing numbers of students choose the four-year option above. If you follow the three-year program and are a competitive candidate, you would be invited for interviews during the fall/early winter of your senior year. If accepted, you would begin graduate school in August/September following your graduation from BC. Advanced Placement For specific information regarding advanced placement, please visit bc.edu/premed. Further Information If you would like to speak with a staff member call 617-552-4663 or e-mail us at premed@bc.edu. Pre-Law Advising Pre-Law Advising Boston College has a dedicated pre-law advisor and offers pre-law advising through the Career Center. The Boston College Career Center and two pre-law student associations, the Bellarmine Law Society and the AHANA Pre-Law Student Association, present panels each year on different aspects of the legal profession and the law school admission process. The pre-law advisor is available to meet individually with students interested in law as a career whenever questions or concerns arise. While no particular major is preferred by law schools, it is suggested that students consider including some of the following courses in their programs of study: logic, mathematics, law, public speaking, English (especially intensive writing courses), history, sociology, and political science. You can indicate your interest in receiving announcements of pre-law panels and activities by officially registering as Pre-Law in the Academic Advising Center or Office of Student Services. Before scheduling a pre-law advising appointment, students should review the Boston College Pre-Law Advising Handbook. For further information, contact the Career Center at 617-552-3430 and view the Career Center’s website for information on applying to law school at: bc.edu/prelaw. PULSE Program for Service Learning PULSE Program for Service Learning For a description of the PULSE Program, please visit the PULSE website. Reserve Officers' Training Corps Reserve Officers' Training Corps Air Force Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Through a cross-enrolled program with Boston University, interested Boston College students may participate in the Air Force Reserve Officers’ Training Corps program. Scholarships (full and partial) are available to qualified students for four, three, or two years and include tuition (full or partial), books, fees, and a monthly stipend. Freshmen and sophomores can compete for 2- and 3-year scholarships, some of which would cover full tuition, others which cover $15,000 per academic year. Academic specialties for scholarships include all majors. All training, drills, and classes are held at the BU campus. Service obligations are one year for each scholarship year (active duty), while pilots are obligated for eight years active duty after completion of flight school. To obtain further information, contact the Department of Aerospace Studies, Boston University, 617-353-4705, afrotc-all-mail@bu.edu. Army Reserve Officers’ Training Corps The U.S. Army offers Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) at Boston College as an extension school in cooperation with Northeastern University. Combined, Boston College and Northeastern University make up the Liberty Battalion. Boston College students attend classes and training on the Chestnut Hill campus. Upon graduation and successful completion of all pre-commissioning requirements, Cadets receive a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the U.S. Army and serve on active duty, U.S. Army Reserves, or National Guard in a variety of fields. Qualified graduates may also be selected to attend professional schools, such as medical or law school. Scholarships may be available for qualified high school students admitted to Boston College and college students currently attending BC. In addition, scholarships may be available to Boston College Nurses through the ROTC program. All scholarships include full tuition and mandatory fees, a monthly stipend, and money for books. Boston College also awards additional incentives for Army ROTC scholarship Cadets. For more information including an application, contact the Liberty Battalion Enrollment and Scholarship Officer at 617-373-2376 or visit the BC Army ROTC website and rotc.northeastern.edu/ Marine Corps Platoon Leaders’ Class (PLC) Available in connection with the Marine Officers Selection Office, Boston, the PLC Program is open to qualified freshmen, sophomores, and juniors. No formal classes or training takes place during the academic year. Students/candidates attend Officer Candidate School (Quantico, VA) training either in two 6-week sessions (male freshmen/sophomores) or one 10-week session (male and female juniors/seniors). Pay and expenses are received during training. No commitment to the USMC is incurred after OCS until a degree is awarded and a Second Lieutenant’s commission issued. Service obligations are then three and a half years active duty or longer for aviation positions. Students/candidates may drop from the program at any time prior to commissioning. For more information, contact the Marine Officer Selection Office, Boston, at 888-753-8762. Navy Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Qualified BC students may cross enroll in Navy Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (and the Marine Corps Option) at Boston University. There are 3- and 4-year programs with possible scholarships (full tuition, some books/fees expenses, monthly stipend, but no room and board). All classes and drills are held at Boston University. Scholarship students incur an active duty service obligation. For further information, please contact the Department of Naval Sciences, Boston University, 617-358-0471, burotc@bc.edu. ROTC courses display on the academic record but do not count towards the required number of credits for graduation or in the G.P.A. Undergraduate Faculty Research Fellows Program Undergraduate Faculty Research Fellows Program Boston College established the Undergraduate Faculty Research Fellows Program (URF) for the purpose of enhancing the academic experience of undergraduates by cultivating their research skills and fostering mentor relationships between undergraduates and faculty. The program provides a grant to faculty to pay for a student's research assistance with a faculty member's research project. It is considered student employment and the student may work up to 20 hours a week during the academic semester, up to 40 hours a week during semester breaks or the summer, depending on faculty need, the funding available, and student availability. Students do not apply directly. The application for an Undergraduate Research Fellowship must come from the faculty member whose research project the student will assist. Students can inquire directly with faculty to express their interest in being involved in the faculty member’s research. Students cannot receive academic credit for work done under an URF. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College