Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Alumni Giving to HGSE Giving Priorities HGSE Fund gifts are allocated to the school’s most pressing need: financial aid for incoming students. This means that 100% of your gift will support the next generation of innovative leaders in education. Give to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. When you make a gift, you give peace of mind to an aspiring academic who is the first person in his family to pursue a postgraduate degree. You help a dedicated young teacher afford her master’s so she can return to her hometown’s high school as the next principal. You open the door wider for students from all walks of life to be able to join the HGSE community. Ways to Make a Gift Credit Card Gifts can be made online with a credit card by visiting our online form. Phone Call the Harvard University Office of the Recording Secretary at 617-495-1750 to give over the phone. Check Make your check payable to the “HGSE Fund” and mail to: HGSE DBA President and Fellows of Harvard College PO Box 419209 Boston, MA 02241-9209 Securities To ensure proper processing of your gift, please notify HGSE of the stock transfer by completing the following online form. Donors and their brokers must request transfer instructions directly from the: Alumni and Development Services 124 Mount Auburn Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Attention: Trust Administration Tel: 866-845-6596 or Fax: 866-457-6598 Email: donorsecuritygifts@harvard.edu Valuation: Your gift of securities will be valued for credit at the mean between the high and the low market price on the date of postmark or personal delivery of the securities, or on the date of written instructions to your broker or banker. Mutual Fund Shares: For more information, please contact the Harvard University Office of the Recording Secretary, at 617-495-1750, for more information. *Please do not send securities or mutual fund shares to a transfer agent for transfer into Harvard's name. This could delay cause a lengthy delay in completing the transfer. Make a Planned Gift Planned giving is an excellent way to support the work of HGSE while lowering your overall tax liability. The most common forms of planned giving are trusts or annuities that pay income or a lead trust, which pays money to HGSE from your estate, lowering the tax burden of your heirs. To learn more about how planned giving works, call the Harvard University Planned Giving Office at 800-446-1277 or email pgo@harvard.edu. Matching Gifts Check to see if your employer offers a matching gift program. In this section Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services Alumni Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice