Skip to main content Skip to main content Become a Member Contact Us Hurricane Resilience Research Institute About Dimensions of Resilience Research Education News Events TAMEST Natural Hazards Summit Latest News Director's Letter, Winter 2022 As we embark on a new year, I invite you to take a moment and reflect on 2021. This past year saw multiple natural disasters that affected everyone around the globe. Disparity in Disaster Aid Distribution A panel at the TAMEST Natural Hazards Summit: Responding to and Mitigating the Impacts was dedicated to the problem of inequity in the distribution of aid after a disaster. The Cone of Uncertainty The first of the speakers at the TAMEST Natural Hazards Summit: Responding to and Mitigating the Impacts was Michael Coyne, Regional Director, National Weather Service, Southern Region. Predicting the Grid Failure: With Professor Ed Hirs One of the distinguished panelists in the first part of the TAMEST Natural Hazards Summit: Responding to and Mitigating the Impacts was UH Energy Fellow Ed Hirs. He is the economist who predicted that the ERCOT grid would fail during an event like Winter Storm Uri in 2013 – a storm that claimed 211 lives. His take on the energy crisis in Texas is that it was highly politicized. UH Hosts Summit on Natural Disasters TAMEST Natural Hazards Summit: Responding to and Mitigating the Impacts, the first of a two-part series, was held on October 19, 2021. The summit was hosted by HuRRI at the University of Houston and presented via Zoom. Director's Letter, Summer 2021 As we enter the 2021 hurricane season, and reflecting back on the events of this past year, the term “resilience” that is now common in our everyday lexicon takes on a new meaning. Event Notifications HuRRI is a multi-state, multi-organization national center of excellence in resilience, focused on hurricane and severe storm recovery and sustaining resilient communities. Sign up here to receive notifications about upcoming events. VISION To be a national center of excellence in resilience advancing our nation’s ability to mitigate, assess, predict, protect, educate and recover from hurricanes and severe storms for the purpose of creating and sustaining resilient communities. ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies