Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content About Lyle Our Namesake: Bobby B. Lyle Mission Statement Message from the Dean Dean's Office Faculty Directory Support Lyle Support Lyle Giving Initiatives Connect with Lyle Development Corporate Relations Get in Touch ☰ About Lyle Lyle Home About Lyle Faculty Directory Faculty Directory The Bobby B. Lyle School of Engineering brings together the world's leading experts in fields including electrical and computer engineering, mechanical engineering, computer science, environmental and civil engineering, and operations research and engineering management . Not only are Lyle faculty at the leading edge of research and scholarship, they are widely regarded as some of the nation's best teachers and mentors. The more than 60 full-time faculty average 14 years of experience after receiving their doctorate. All doctoral faculty teach bachelor's, master's, and Ph.D. courses. Lectures are designed, delivered and taught by faculty, not graduate students. Exams are generally designed, delivered and graded by faculty. The Lyle School strategically uses adjunct professors who work full-time in industry to teach certain specialty courses where industry viewpoints are particularly beneficial to the course content. One key feature that distinguishes the Lyle School from others is a strong belief in "hands-on" instruction from all levels of the faculty―from the Dean's office to the laboratory assistants. Because we maintain small class sizes, students have the opportunity to interact directly with some of the world's foremost professors throughout their academic career at SMU. We maintain a high level of communication and "availability" between faculty and students. Every member of the Lyle faculty and staff strives to know each student―resulting in an ideal way to maximize learning experiences. Faculty by Department Civil and Environmental Engineering Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Operations Research and Engineering Management Mechanical Engineering About Lyle Our Namesake: Bobby B. Lyle Mission Statement Message from the Dean Dean's Office Faculty Directory 9 Things Every Lyle Student Should Know Job Opportunities Support Lyle Get in Touch School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus