Skip to content Search Search Close Search Cornell University NYC Conference Center Facility and Services Floor Plans and Capacities Visiting Contact Us Toggle Searchers NYC Conference Center NYC Conference Center The Cornell ILR Experience, in the Heart of New York City The Cornell University ILR School’s New York City conference center is located at 570 Lexington Ave. in midtown Manhattan in the historic RCA Victor Building. Our conference center offers a unique and professional atmosphere for hosting your business event or educational conference. We are dedicated to helping you meet your goals by providing the highest level of professional service and by enhancing your experience so that you can achieve the goals of your event. Every meeting space is equipped with integrated technology and projections systems at no additional cost. The ILR New York City conference center hosts events including: Trainings Board meetings Business meetings Classroom instructions Conferences Meetings Receptions Retreats Seminars Workshops “I never have to worry or give a second thought to my events held at the Conference Center. The staff is always amazing!” - Sue Sappington, ILR - Alumni Affairs and Development Our Mission The Ithaca, N.Y., and New York City ILR conference centers are committed to supporting our Cornell communities, area businesses, associations and organizations by providing quality, affordable facilities, innovative technology and personable service. Our Values Consistent high-quality service Exceed expectations Focused on details One-stop resource Passionate, professional and dedicated staff Committed to Cornell University goals Accessibility Statement The ILR conference center is committed to providing superior service to all guests and visitors and works closely with event organizers to provide reasonable measures to accommodate guests with disabilities. For disability accommodations (e.g., American Sign Language interpreters, alternative formats), please contact your event organizer as soon as possible. Please contact Melissa Manning, Director, ILR Conference Services, mf244@cornell.edu OR 607.255.4401 to request disability accommodations within the Conference Center. Advance notice is necessary to arrange for some accessibility needs. NYC Conference Center Facility and Services Floor Plans and Capacities Visiting Contact Us Request a reservation Event Planning Checklist Contact Us Cornell University, ILR School NYC Conference Center 570 Lexington Ave., 12th floor New York, NY 10022 212.340.2881 E-mail: NYCConferenceCTR@cornell.edu News at ILR ILR Events About ILR ILRie Alumni Magazine ILR Brand Coronavirus Resources and Updates Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Privacy policy Directory Centers and Institutes Catherwood Library Conference Centers College map For faculty and staff Contact Us at ILR Web Accessibility LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 Cornell University | ILR School