Skip to Main Content Search Workday@Penn Search About Team Your Workday Faculty Postdocs Graduate Students Student Workers Student Recruitment and Hiring Managers Staff Business Partners Toolbox Mobile App Penn Community Penn Employee Solution Center Work Location Workday Policies Training News System Status Webinar Wednesdays Learning and Talent Workday@Penn Login UatPenn to Workday Home UatPenn to Workday U@Penn Apps to Workday@Penn Click on the links below to find instructions for viewing information and performing actions in Workday. My Profile Update Pay Elections Manage My Paid Time Off Requisition Management System Manage My Health Benefits Manage My Retirement ContributionsMy Pay My Tax Info My Profile Log in to Workday@Penn and make changes to your personal information. Step-by-step instructions are in this Self Service-Modify Your Personal Information (pdf) tip sheet. Update Pay Elections Log in to Workday@Penn and make changes to your pay elections (also known as direct deposit). Step-by-step instructions are in this Self Service-Manage Your Payroll and Compensation Information (pdf) tip sheet. Manage My Paid Time Off Log in to Workday@Penn to manage your time off. Step-by-step instructions to request paid time off are in this Self Service-Request Time Off (pdf) tip sheet. Requisition Management System Log in to Workday@Penn to create a staff job requisition, a functionality available to those who have the Workday security role of recruiting coordinator, which requires training. Step-by-step instructions are in this Recruiting-Create Job Requisition (pdf) tip sheet. Access Interfolio@Penn for information on faculty recruiting. After recruiting, academic workers are hired into a position in Workday. Manage My Health Benefits Log in to Workday@Penn to view and make changes to benefit elections, benefit events, dependents, and beneficiaries. Step-by-step instructions are in this Self Service-Manage, View, and Change Your Benefits (pdf) tip sheet. Use this tip sheet during open enrollment. For assistance with your particular benefits, please call Health Advocate. The number is 1-866-799-2329. Manage My Retirement Contributions Visit the Penn HR website for more information, or contact the Retirement Call Center at 877-736-6738 if you have any questions. My Pay Log on to Workday@Penn to view your payslips in Workday@Penn. Step-by-step instructions are in these pdf tip sheets, Self Service-Manage Your Payroll and Compensation Information, Self Service-Understand Your Payslip, or Self Service-Manage Pay Elections. My Tax Info Log on to Workday@Penn to view your tax information. Step-by-step instructions are in this tip sheet, Self Service-Access to W-2, W-4, and State Reciprocal Forms (pdf). W-2s since 2019 are available in Workday. W-2s in Workday will not display Box D Control Numbers. If you need Control Numbers to import to an electronic tax preparation service, please view your W-2s through the University's tax information management vendor, ADP W-2 Services. Use the ADP site to access your tax information for the current year and prior two years. For copies of W-2 for tax years earlier than those available in Workday or ADP, contact the Penn Employee Solution Center at (215) 898-7372 or solutioncenter@upenn.edu. Do you have additional questions on withholding and year-end tax documents? See the resources on the Tax page. Note that University of Pennsylvania employees are not authorized to provide personal tax advice. Please consult with a qualified tax specialist or the IRS. Use your PennKey here to access website resources Contact Us Penn Employee Solution Center solutioncenter@upenn.edu or (215) 898-7372 Quick Links What is Workday? Frequently Asked Questions For Faculty For Postdocs For Graduate Students For Student Workers (Non-Exempt Weekly Paid) For Managers For Staff For Our Business Partners in Schools, Centers, and Administrative Centers University of Pennsylvania Workday@Penn University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 Workday-Announcement@upenn.edu Home Penn Home Penn HR Payroll U@Penn Copyright © 2022 The University of Pennsylvania Copyright Equal Opportunity Employer Legal Notices Clery Act Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help