Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Admissions & Tuition Tuition and Financial Aid Tuition and Financial Aid Excellent Education, within Reach A college education does not come without a cost, but making the investment in your future by attending Rutgers may be more affordable than you imagine. As The State University of New Jersey, Rutgers strives to keep quality education within reach. To help eligible students afford a Rutgers education, the university offers scholarships, grants, student employment, information about loans, and tuition payment plans. Value and Affordability Matter With reasonable tuition and generous financial aid, Rutgers offers an educational investment that will pay off. 74% Of entering undergraduates received financial aid 2017-2018 data $18,661 Average financial aid offer for first-year students 2017-2018 data $115 Million Aid awarded to first-year students 2017-2018 data Giving Students Access to Excellent Education Rutgers makes a world-class education accessible and affordable. All eligible New Jersey students can attend Rutgers tuition-free for four years through a combination of university, federal and state financial aid programs. Our R-UN to the Top, Bridging the Gap, and Scarlet Guarantee programs build on existing state and federal aid programs to enable in-state students with family incomes below $65,000 to attend the university tuition-free and to reduce tuition and fees for students with family incomes below $100,000. $90M+ in federal Pell Grants to more than 17,700 Rutgers students, 2020–2021 9,000 students received nearly $30 million in financial aid and emergency assistance through Scarlet Promise Grants 75% of Rutgers students receive financial aid 34% of 1st-year students are first-generation undergraduates How Rutgers creates access to education Learn more about Scarlet Promise Grants Cost of Attending Rutgers Estimate your annual cost of attending Rutgers as an undergraduate with this quick tool that calculates tuition and fees for in-state and out-of-state students enrolled in one of the three arts and sciences schools at Rutgers University. Tuition and fee rates for the 2021–2022 academic year are used. Comprehensive Tuition and Fees Listing Net Price Calculator Cost for Undergraduates NJ Resident? YesNoSelect Where will you live? On CampusOff CampusSelect Which university location? - Any -Rutgers University–New BrunswickRutgers University–NewarkRutgers University–Camden Cost of Graduate Attendance Tuition and fees vary based on attendance in New Brunswick, Newark, Camden, or through Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS). View Estimated Graduate Cost of Attendance View Estimated RBHS Cost of Attendance Understanding Tuition, Fees, and Other Costs of Attending Rutgers Attending Rutgers, or any university, will have both direct and indirect costs, which typically include tuition, enrollment fees, housing expenses, costs for meal plans, books and class materials, transportation, and personal expenses. Tuition is the cost charged by the university for taking courses, and is often based on the number of credits you take. At Rutgers, tuition varies based on school affiliation, campus, and program. After registering for courses, Rutgers issues students an online term bill each semester, which includes all tuition and fees. Term bills list the tuition, fees, and other costs due after deducting for credits for loans and financial aid, such as scholarships, grants, and other items. Paying your term bill completes your enrollment for each semester. An interest-free payment plan option is available. Comprehensive Tuition and Fees Listing Fee Descriptions Financing Your Education Brochure [PDF] Spotlight: Rutgers–Newark Facilitates Social Mobility Rutgers–Newark ranks number one in the nation for “return on investment” among institutions with a high percentage of low-income students, according to a report by the Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce. Learn More Paying for Your Rutgers Education It is typical for students to piece together the funds to attend college through a variety of sources. Many students at Rutgers receive some form of financial assistance through grants/scholarships, loans, and/or work study, and then use a combination of personal or family contributions or outside funding to make up the difference after financial aid. Note: Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) students must complete an additional application (other than the FAFSA) to be eligible for financial aid. Paying for College Financial Aid at Rutgers Office of Student Employment Tuition Payment Plans The Scarlet Guarantee The Scarlet Guarantee is a signature Rutgers–New Brunswick program designed to make college more accessible and affordable, offering a "last dollar" financial aid award that covers the cost of in-state tuition and mandatory fees. Learn More Net Price Calculator The Rutgers Net Price Calculator tool can help you estimate your net price for attending the university. Net price is the difference between the "sticker" price (full cost) to attend, minus any grants and scholarships for which you may be eligible. View Net Price Calculator Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster