Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Submit Content We're interested in videos that help us show the world what's happening here at Cornell. People, projects, events, research—you name it. In order to post your content on CornellCast, we will need the following: Information about your content or event. Permission from the speaker/artist/participant(s). A signed release is required for guest speakers. High-resolution video file OR a link to your video on a supported video platform, including Youtube, Vimeo, Livestream, and Ustream (embedding must be enabled for your video). Submitting Your Video Anyone with a Cornell NetID can use our online submission tool to upload video files up to 2GB or to submit YouTube URLs. Please note that we will automatically pull in the YouTube title, description and thumbnail for any Youtube URLs you submit, so it is best to finalize that content in advance. Providing a nicely-composed, high-resolution thumbnail image for each submission will get you a gold star in our book. Possibly a hug! If you do not have a Cornell NetID or if your file is larger than 2GB, you can upload via FTP (contact us at cornellcast@cornell.edu for credentials). You will need to send us descriptive content separately in email. If your video already exists on a video platform other than YouTube, simply email the link, along with any background information, to cornellcast@cornell.edu. We support embeds from several video platforms in addition to YouTube, including Vimeo, Livestream, and Ustream. As a *last resort,* data DVDs may be sent via campus mail, to: CornellCast c/o Amy Bond 301 College Ave Please be sure to clearly label your materials with title, date recorded and contact info. Forms Download our release form. File Specifications File extension: .mp4 or .mov Screen size: Same as source, up to 1920x1080. Always maintain the aspect ratio of your content. Frame Rate: Same as source (typically 29.97 or 30 fps), constant Video codec: H.264 (main or high profile) Data Rate: Approximately 5-10 mbps, depending on program length, content and resolution. If your video is 1280x720, use a bitrate of at least 5 mbps; for 1980x1080 video, use 10 mbps. Audio codec: AAC Audio data rate: 128-320 kbps stereo (128 kbps is common, but go high-end for musical performances) Audio frequency: 44.1 or 48 kHz Contact Us Technical questions (about video submissions, embed code, rss feeds, etc.): cornellcast@cornell.edu General inquiries and site feedback: cornellcast@cornell.edu Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×