Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Fire Prevention Services Menu University of Texas at Austin Home Financial and Administrative Services The University of Texas at Austin Financial and Administrative Services Fire Prevention Services Search Search Search Search Fire Safety Expand Evacuation Training Fire Extinguishers on Campus Fire Safety Awareness Fire Safety Links Campus Residence Halls Off-Campus Housing Historic Fires Student Events Deck the Halls with Fire Safety Frequently Asked Questions Residence Halls Expand Off-Campus Expand Records & Reports Expand Daily Housing Fire & Crime Logs False Alarm or Report Events Permitting Expand SOPs Expand About Expand About Fire Prevention Services Organizational Chart Our Services Contact Us Expand Welcome to Fire Prevention Services Welcome to Fire Prevention Services The University of Texas at Austin Fire Prevention Services (FPS) office ensures a safe environment for faculty, staff, students and visitors by providing a comprehensive fire prevention program. Our fire safety professionals are charged with monitoring all university buildings for compliance with local and state requirements, and partner with our community stakeholders to perform the inspections and drills necessary for risk reduction and the potential negative repercussions of fire on campus. Visit the Office of Campus Safety for more Safety Resources & Services for students, faculty, and staff. Request Evacuation Training Request evacuation training for your department Request Now Fire Extinguisher Training Classes Sign up for portable fire extinguisher training online Sign Up Frequently Asked Questions Check out our frequently asked questions View Now Find Your Building's FPS Engineer for Your Fire & Life Safety Questions look Engineers by Building Acronym 2019 Novel Coronavirus Information Click here for information on preventing respiratory illness at UT. 2019 Novel Coronavirus Using Prescribed Fire at the Half-Pint Prairie What’s a prescribed fire and how does it work? Also called a controlled burn, watch the process at the Half-Pint Prairie on The University of Texas at Austin campus in late November 2020. A project of the Campus Environmental Center—student-led environmental action—the Half-Pint Prairie was seeded in February 2019 to illustrate the beauty and benefits of native Blackland Prairie plants. Since prescribed fires regenerate more lush growth, Half-Pint documented the process with student team leader Jack Rouse, directed by Matt O’Toole, Director of Land Resources at the Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center, in collaboration with Jim Carse from UT Landscape Services and the City of Austin. Also watch Central Texas Gardener’s story of how Half-Pint team leaders are seeding the future and why they got involved. View the controled burn in action! Alcohol Based Hand Sanitizers and Fire Safety In light of the COVID-19 healthcare crisis, the Center for Disease Control (CDC) recommends washing hands with soap and water for 20 seconds; especially after going to the bathroom, before eating, and after coughing, sneezing, or blowing your nose. But if soap and water are not available, the CDC recommends using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer (AHBS) with at least 60% alcohol can help you avoid getting sick and spreading germs to others. How does the use of AHBSs impact fire safety, click here to learn more. Learn More Home Fire Safety Home fires are the #1 cause of fire deaths in the United States. In these challenging times we are all spending more time at home and fire safety may be neglected as a result of additional distractions and stress that we are all experiencing as we collectively combat COVID-19. Fire Prevention Services encourages the UT community to take time to ensure that your homes and families are practicing fire safety and prepared to act in the event of an emergency. Click here to learn more about how to prevent home fires and how to prepare and protect your family in the event of a fire. Learn More Dklfa4NX0AIhFfn.jpg Fire Safety Evacuation Training Fire Extinguishers on Campus Fire Safety Awareness Fire Safety Links Campus Residence Halls Off-Campus Housing Historic Fires Student Events Deck the Halls with Fire Safety Frequently Asked Questions @UTAustinSafety UT Austin Office of Campus Safety UTAustinSafety Your actions really do make a difference! Small things like dumping your drink in a storm drain or not picking up y… https://t.co/aN9UQ6HwNH 1 week ago reply2 retweet star UT Austin Office of Campus Safety UTAustinSafety https://t.co/mP7hBGwqmD 2 weeks ago reply2 retweet starView all Fire Prevention Services Website problems? Contact FAS Communications fascommweb@austin.utexas.edu UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022