Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Home About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma Autism Healthy Weight Summer Weight Gain Pregnancy and Early Childhood Expanding Scope of Treatment Measuring Overweight and Obesity The Hassenfeld Study Injury and Poisoning Resources For Families Community of Learners Events Get Involved Site Navigation Home For Participants About the Hassenfeld Study Hassenfeld Study: Leadership Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma ABC Study Project CARE RI AIR Hotspot Analysis Home Asthma Response Program Neighborhood Risk Autism Genetics PHOEBE Study Prospective Infant Behavioral Study Play and Autism RI-CART Healthy Weight Summer Weight Gain Pregnancy and Early Childhood Expanding Scope of Treatment Measuring Overweight and Obesity The Hassenfeld Study Postpartum Cohort Prenatal Cohort Injury and Poisoning Neighborhood Disparities in Lead Poisoning Lead & Prematurity Fall-related Injuries Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use Frequent ED Use ED Use & Insurance Coverage Traumatic Brain Injury Burns Resources For Families English Español Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series Past events and webinars Get Involved Give to the Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards Healthy Weight Overview of the Healthy Weight, Nutrition and Fitness Initiative Childhood overweight and obesity is a major concern, with epidemic numbers of children struggling to achieve a healthy weight and lifestyle. Approximately 30% of middle school children in Rhode Island (RI) watch 3 or more hours of TV on a daily basis and an additional 39% spend 3 or more hours using the computer or watching videos. This is coupled with the fact that 38% of children in RI participate in physical activity less than 3 days of the week. Particularly concerning is the fact that children who are at greatest risk for inactivity and unhealthy eating habits are from minority and underprivileged backgrounds. The “blueprint” for a healthy lifestyle, including optimal diet and physical activity, is established in utero and further developed through infancy and childhood. A key to maintaining and improving the health of children in RI is identifying and intervening with mothers, maternal-child dyads, and families over the course of development. The overarching goals of this initiative are to improve dietary intake and physical activity to prevent the onset of obesity and excess weight gain in high risk populations and to develop interventions for children already struggling with obesity. Key People in the Healthy Weight Initiative Leadership for the Healthy Weight, Nutrition, and Physical Fitness Initiative is based in the Weight Control and Diabetes Research Center at The Miriam Hospital. Dr. Elissa Jelalian, Dr. Erika Werner and Dr. Rena Wing are the core faculty of the Initiative and supported by a team of faculty, trainees, medical students and staff. KEY PEOPLE Key Projects in the Healthy Weight Initiative 1. Prevention of Excess Weight Gain in School Age Children Prevention of excess summer weight gain in children living in low-income communities through summer camps. read more 2. Pregnancy and Early Childhood Projects Three studies examining the reoccurrence of gestational diabetes, ways to improve postpartum testing in women who experienced gestational diabetes and mealtime interactions of toddlers as predictors of weight gain. read more 3. Expanding Scope of Treatment of Youth with Obesity and/or Eating Disorders Two individual projects focusing on increasing the scope of treatment services for obesity and eating disorders. read more 4. Measuring Overweight and Obesity at the State and Local Level A pilot study to create a database that tracks state and local obesity trends using data from multiple sources, including weight status information on 41,934 children. read more Our Work Asthma Autism Healthy Weight Summer Weight Gain Pregnancy and Early Childhood Expanding Scope of Treatment Measuring Overweight and Obesity The Hassenfeld Study Injury and Poisoning Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Brown University Box G S 121-4 121 South Main Street, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3855 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Info for study participants Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top