Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Assessment Certificates Consultations Departmental Support English Language Support Fellowships & Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Writing Teaching & Learning Resources Learning Collaborative News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Academic Tutoring Staff The Academic Tutoring Program employs 125 undergraduate peer tutors who have a passion for teaching and learning, and have demonstrated proficiency in the course they are tutoring. The Tutoring Program's diverse group of peer tutors thrives on sharing knowledge, tips, and learning strategies to help peers gain a better understanding of course material and succeed academically. Associate Director of Academic Tutoring Assistant Dean of Curricular Support Janet Peters Janet Peters is the Assistant Dean of the College of Curricular Support and Associate Director of the Academic Tutoring Program for the Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning. She oversees the administrative, operational, and logistical aspects of Academic Tutoring, including the supervision and coordination of 120 student tutors supporting 66 introductory STEM and language courses. Janet also oversees Vertex, a summer pre-calculus Bridge program for incoming students, and is an academic advisor. She is the 2013 recipient of the Wilson DeBlois Award for her work with graduate students. She enjoys meeting and mentoring students and is committed to helping students thrive academically, socially, and as peer educators. Janet earned her B.A. in Psychology from Rhode Island College and M.A. in Higher Education Administration from Louisiana State University. Please direct STEM and language related tutoring questions to [email protected]. Leadership Team Dominic Covelli is a junior concentrating in Chemical Biology. He has two semesters of experience in tutoring Organic Chemistry, plus he served as a TA for Chem 0330. Aside from studying and teaching chemistry, he’s also a part of the Robinson Lab, helping to research copper-dioxygen reactivity. Dominic is also involved in education about mental health through NAMI Rhode Island and Active Minds. His favorite building on campus is the SciLi, and his favorite hobby is biking. Dominic expects to graduate with an Sc. B. in Chemical Biology in May of 2022 Harrison Judd is a senior concentrating in Chemistry on the Chemical Biology track. He has three semesters of experience as both a teaching assistant and tutor for Organic Chemistry. In addition to helping out with the class, Harrison also spends his time in the Williard lab, researching the reactivity of certain sugar derivatives. Outside of his education, he enjoys playing the guitar and making river trips for fly fishing. Harrison expects to graduate in May 2022 with an Sc. B. in Chemistry. Haley Seo is a junior concentrating in Applied Math-Biology, and has three semesters experience tutoring Multivariable Calculus, and also serves as a teaching assistant for APMA 0350. Besides teaching math and getting to know her tutees, Haley is involved with the Meiklejohn Peer Advising Program, writes for the Critical Review, and plays violin in the Brown University Orchestra. When not doing any of the above, she is often sighted in the Engineering Cafe with a latte in hand. Haley expects to graduate in May 2023 with an Sc.B. in Applied Math-Biology. Programs & Services Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Assessment Certificates Consultations Departmental Support English Language Support Fellowships & Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Orientations Workshops & Roundtables Writing The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top