Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries String Pedagogy MM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs String Pedagogy MM Apply Request More Info String Pedagogy MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid String Pedagogy Master of Music Refine your musicianship and teaching skills with a Master of Music in String Pedagogy in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. This 33-credit graduate program focuses on the methods critical to helping your future students master stringed instruments. You’ll develop expertise in your instrument of choice through a curriculum focused on the study and practice of the teaching of stringed instruments, private lessons and ensemble opportunities. Become a private music instructor, or prepare for doctoral-level individual research and performance studies. The String Pedagogy MM curriculum is tailored for study of the bass, cello, harp, viola and violin. String Pedagogy MM students take a blend of music education, performance and theory courses. The curriculum is fully accredited by the National Association of Schools of Music, and through it you’ll participate in university ensembles; study orchestral conducting techniques; and utilize the primary research tools used in music studies. Some students may have opportunities to teach undergraduate students who study stringed instruments. Coursework can be completed on a full-time or part-time basis, and all classes take place at Temple’s Main Campus. In addition to the required curriculum, all students complete a final project that comprises a lecture or recital, method book, research paper, or teaching demonstration. Faculty advisors guide students in choosing electives from the Music Education, Music Studies or other graduate departments for a comprehensive, interdisciplinary music curriculum. Learn more about your options for completing this program. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover music education faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer music education degree programs. Classes & Curriculum The String Pedagogy MM comprises core courses, university orchestra participation and a final project. The curriculum includes the following required and elective courses. Advanced Orchestral Conducting Audiation and Music Learning Contemporary Problems in Music Education Jazz Education Learning Theory in Music Lower/Upper String Pedagogy Music Learning and Development Learn more about the requirements for the String Pedagogy MM program. Related Graduate Degrees Music Education MM Music Education PhD Music Therapy MMT Performance MM Piano Pedagogy MM Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. ConTemplum hosts numerous concerts, forums and seminars to foster a community of musicians who are dedicated to exploring contemporary musical ideas and performing new compositions. Music Teachers National Association offers a vast educational network of conferences, continuing education opportunities and small business resources to support the enrichment and professionalism of music teachers. OWLchestra Community Orchestra is a community string orchestra composed of students and community members who want to play music together in a low-stress environment. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Jeffrey Solow is the program coordinator for the String Pedagogy MM degree. Phone: 215-204-5527 Email: jeffrey.solow@temple.edu Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-STRP-MMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in String Pedagogy MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info