Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Health Services, Policy & Practice Home About From the Chair Doctoral Program Research People News Site Navigation Home AcademyHealth 2021 Virtual ARM HSR PhD Student Courtney Johnson wins the 2021 AcademyHealth Best Abstract of the Health Economics Interest Group (HEIG)! 2020 ARM | Virtual 2019 ARM | Washington, D.C. 2018 ARM | Seattle 2017 ARM | New Orleans 2016 ARM | Boston Global Health Engagement HSR Seminar Series About From the Chair Doctoral Program Program Description Course Requirements What Our Students Are Saying What Our Faculty Are Saying Dissertation Spotlight Job Market Candidates Alumni Research People Doctoral Students Faculty Administrative Core Staff Department Leadership News About About The Department of Health Services, Policy & Practice (HSPP) includes over 40 full-time faculty based at 121 South Main Street in Providence and over 70 additional faculty who have secondary, adjunct, or other departmental appointments. Brown School of Public Health at sunset. Vision Catalyze the delivery of just and higher quality public health and health care services. Mission We develop and disseminate new knowledge that helps to deliver equitable, effective, efficient, and continuously improving public health and health-care services. We accomplish this through innovative research, engaged teaching, creative training and mentoring and through collaborative engagement with policymakers, service providers and community stakeholders. Values Excellence, Equity, Creativity, Free Exchange of Ideas, Promotion of Diversity, Multidisciplinary Collaboration, Respect, Stakeholder Our Partners We have developed relationships with a wide variety of partners and collaborators such as the state government and hospitals throughout Rhode Island. Within Brown University these include the Departments of Medicine, Surgery, Psychiatry, and OB/GYN at the Warren Alpert Medical School, and the Departments of Economics, Sociology and Computer Science on campus. Read More HSPP Open Positions From the Chair Diversity & Inclusion The Department of Health Services, Policy & Practice, Brown School of Public Health The Department of Health Services, Policy & Practice, Brown School of Public Health 121 South Main St. Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top