Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Eating Well at Brown Meal Plan And Dining Information Where can I find information about Brown dining? The Brown Dining Services (BDS) website is the best place to find out specific and up-to-date information on the following topics related to dining services: Meal plan contract requirements and options Choosing the right meal plan for you Full list and map of all campus eateries (residential and retail dining) Payment options Food allergies Kosher/Halal meal plan options Vegetarian and vegan foods available in the dining halls Ingredient information Today's menu for The Sharpe Refectory (The Ratty) and Verney-Woolley (V-Dub) To-Go Meal Options Sustainable Dining Initiatives Catering Student Job Opportunities Where can I get some ideas for meals to put together at the dining hall? A great resource for meal ideas at BDS, is rattygourmet.blogspot.com, a blog written by Brown students, complete with photos of each dish. You can also submit recipe ideas to their blog. Here are a few suggestions for meals at BDS eateries. Note that each meal uses foods from all of the food groups, to maximize nutrient intake. See how many variations you can create from these ideas. Breakfast 1 cup of oatmeal with 1/4 cup of raisins stirred in; 1 cup of low-fat milk 2 slices whole grain toast with 2 tablespoons of peanut butter; banana 2 scrambled eggs; 1 slice whole grain toast; 8 ounces of low-fat milk 8 oz. low fat yogurt; 1 whole piece fruit or 8 oz. fruit juice; English muffin w/ jam Kashi cereal with sunflower seeds, raisins, and skim milk Egg white omelet with veggies and whole wheat toast Lunch Main dish salad: add pieces of chicken or tuna or 1/2 cup of beans to a large plate of colorful raw vegetables. Include some type of grain, like a pita bread, muffin, or noodle soup. Vegan rice and beans. This dish is high in fiber, low in fat, and will keep you satisfied all afternoon. Pita Pizza: place pita on a plate. Add tomato sauce or fresh tomatoes from the salad bar. Sprinkle mozzarella on top. Add desired toppings from salad bar or pieces of diced chicken from the line. Microwave and enjoy. Vegetarian chili (high in protein and fiber); piece of fresh fruit; 8 oz. yogurt. Turkey roll-up with lettuce, tomato, and cranberry mayo (combine cranberry sauce with mayonnaise). Black bean veggie burger topped with salsa (from salad bar) on whole wheat bun with a side of cold vegetable salad. Dinner V-Dub Wrap: fill a wrap with cheese, veggies, and lean meat or tuna. Go to the sandwich griller and you will have a hot pocket in no time. Baked potato meal: using a baked potato as your base, fill in with some of your favorites from the salad bar or the hot line (broccoli bits and other raw or steamed veggies, shredded cheese, beans, tofu or tempeh squares, plain yogurt, chili). Take to the microwave and you'll have a full course meal that's delicious and nutritious. Grilled chicken breast, topped with spaghetti sauce, brown rice from the vegan bar, and a bowl of salad with 1 tsp. oil (high in omega-3 fatty acids, important for heart health and many other benefits). Soup-based meal: start with a minestrone or vegetable soup that already has some beans in it (providing protein and fiber). To boost your protein even more (it takes Œ_ cup of beans to make a protein serving), add more chickpeas or other beans from the salad bar. Heat in the microwave and sprinkle some parmesan or grated cheddar cheese on top. A hearty piece of whole grain bread and a side salad make delicious accompaniments to this meal. Pasta of the day tossed with julienne grilled chicken and vegetables of the day, sprinkle with parmesan cheese and garlic powder. Brown or white rice mixed with vegetables (either veggies of the day or from salad bar) and topped with soy sauce and ground ginger. What are some suggestions for selecting balanced meals in the dining halls? One easy guideline for any meal is to think about dividing your plate in half. One half of the plate should be filled with vegetables and fruits. One quarter should be proteins (e.g., fish, beans/legumes, lean meat, poultry, tofu, tempeh, eggs, etc.), and the other quarter filled with complex carbohydrates (e.g., brown rice, baked potato, whole grain breads or cereals, pasta, etc.). In addition, you should include a low-fat dairy product (yogurt, low fat cheese, milk or calcium-fortified soy milk) about 3 times a day. Your diet also needs to have sources of healthy fats or oils 2-3 times a day. Examples of this would be peanut butter, fatty fish such as salmon or tuna, avocado, olives and olive oil. Try to select foods that represent at least 3 different food groups at each meal, and to vary those foods from day to day. This can increase the quality of your diet, without having to closely track individual nutrients, which can sometimes lead to an unhealthy relationship with eating and food. Aim for as much variety as you can in your meals and snacks, as this will help ensure that you are getting a wide range of nutrients. A single food, no matter how nutritious, cannot provide the entire spectrum of vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients that your body needs on a regular basis. The wide variety of choices offered by BDS gives many ways to put together meals and snacks that have the nutrients and energy you need. For guidelines about serving sizes for different food groups, click on what counts as a serving. What if I feel overwhelmed by the unlimited food choices in the dining hall? At first, coming to an all-you-care-to-eat dining hall for your meals can be intimidating if you are used to eating at home or in restaurants. Here are some ways to make selecting balanced meals at the Ratty and the V-Dub a more relaxing experience. Check the menu ahead of time and decide what you want at that meal. The Brown Daily Herald and the BDS web site list the day's menus for Sharpe Refectory and the V-Dub. Give yourself enough time to relax and eat. Once you have your meal, sit down and enjoy it. Eat slowly to have a better sense of whether you need to get something else to eat. Try eating at each dining hall at different times of the day to find times that seem more manageable. Explore the other eateries on campus. Avoid skipping meals so you are not overly hungry when you go to the dining hall. Eating breakfast and having healthy snacks throughout the day can keep your energy levels up and help prevent cravings for sweet and salty snacks. If you are an international student, you may want to introduce new foods gradually to avoid gastrointestinal upset. If your digestive system is having problems, it is a good idea to eat fairly plain, unseasoned foods at first (e.g., breads, cereals, rice and pastas, cooked vegetables and fruits, and plain meats and poultry without a lot of sauces.) You may also need to avoid milk and other dairy products for a while, until your digestive system settles down. If you have any concern about your symptoms, you should check with a medical provider at Health Services by calling 401.863-3953. It is important to remember that you don't need to eat perfectly balanced every time you eat. In fact, aiming for a general balance of nutrition over the whole day or week may help to relax a bit about your food choices, and to prevent becoming overly consumed about your food selection. Eating well means getting both nutrition AND enjoyment from food. Nutrient-rich foods that contain vitamins and minerals are important to your health, and include choices like whole grain breads and cereals, brightly-colored fruits and vegetables, milk and yogurt (as well as their soy alternatives), and lean proteins. When you establish a consistent eating schedule that emphasizes balance, variety, and moderation in food choices, this allows for basic nutritional requirements to be met, while leaving room to manage those foods that may not be particularly high in vitamins and minerals without hurting your health. If food or eating starts to create strong feelings of stress, anxiety, or guilt, or you become concerned and preoccupied with how your eating choices may affect your health or weight, consider making a free and confidential appointment with the Health Services Dietitian (Nutritionist) to discuss your concerns. If needed, you can find out more information about eating concerns by visiting the link on our website. On-Campus Resources The administrative dietitian for Brown Dining Services works with students who have special dietary needs and serves as a resource for questions pertaining to recipe ingredients, nutrient content of foods, and general nutrition information. The Health Services dietitian is available for individual appointment or phone consultation to discuss the many types of eating concerns you may have regarding yourself, a friend, roommate or teammate. There are no fees for these services. Brown students can make an appointment with the dietitian by calling 401.863-3558. Learn more about individual nutrition counseling here. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-3558 Nutrition Appointment Line 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Intuitive Eating? Intuitive Eating is an evidence-based, mind-body health approach, comprised of 10 Principles and created by two dietitians, Evelyn Tribole and Elyse Resch in 1995. It is a weight-neutral model with a validated assessment scale and over 90 studies to date (Tribole 2017). It’s thrilling to see all the research and gives me great hope. Intuitive Eating is a dynamic integration between mind and body. The principles work by either cultivating or removing obstacles to body awareness, a process known as interoceptive awareness. Essentially, Intuitive Eating is a personal process of honoring health by listening and responding to the direct messages of the body in order to meet your physical and psychological needs. by Evelyn Tribole, MS, RDN, CEDRD-S Read more about intuitive eating What is The Health at Every SizeⓇ Approach? The framing for a Health At Every Size (HAES®) approach comes out of discussions among healthcare workers, consumers, and activists who reject both the use of weight, size, or BMI as proxies for health, and the myth that weight is a choice. The HAES model is an approach to both policy and individual decision-making. It addresses broad forces that support health, such as safe and affordable access. It also helps people find sustainable practices that support individual and community well-being. The HAES approach honors the healing power of social connections, evolves in response to the experiences and needs of a diverse community, and grounds itself in a social justice framework. by the Association for Size Diversity and Health (ASDAH) Read about the HAESⓇ Principles Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook