COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Music - Performance - Organ , Master's Master'sMusic - Performance - Organ All Programs College of Fine Arts School of Music Wichita State's Master of Music degree program will help you take your musical talent—and career—to a higher level. The program combines professional training with acclaimed faculty and year-round performance opportunities—on campus and throughout Kansas' center of arts and culture. Learn how Music - Performance - Organ is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Organ performance students enjoy access to the Great Marcussen Organ, located in Wiedemann Hall. Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program For admission into the Master of Music program, you must: Be admitted to the WSU Graduate School Have a Bachelor of Music degree in your area of specialization Successfully complete an audition For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Organ professor leads top-notch program with Great Marcussen Organ The organ program at Wichita State is an integral part of the School of Music. In addition to applied lessons in organ, Lynne Davis, the Robert L. Town Distinguished Professor of Organ, performs on the famous Marcussen organ monthly as part of her Wednesdays in Wiedemann Series. The Great Marcussen Organ was designed and built on-site by the legendary firm of Marcussen and Son of Denmark. It was the first Marcussen instrument to be built on North America soil. The building's superb acoustics keep it in demand as the primary recital and concert hall for the WSU School of Music and draws renowned organists from around the world for recitals and recording. Curriculum To complete the Master of Music degree, you'll take a minimum of 32 credit hours, with 60 percent of your work in courses numbered 700 or above, and complete a thesis or recital depending on your concentration. Every MM concentration requires 12 credit hours of core courses—in addition to hours in your specialization area. View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU's extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©