Skip To Top Navigation Skip To Section Navigation Skip To Content Skip To Search Skip To Footer ABOUT University Fast Facts History Vision, Mission, and Values Office of the President University Leadership Accreditation Assessment Foundation Strategic Plan Explore A - Z Index Calendar Campus Directory Campus Employment University Policies Press Releases Pueblo and Region Wolf Den News Departments Quick Links Alumni & Community Relations Auxiliary Services Human Resources Information Technology Facilities Management Institute of Cannabis Research Institutional Research Business Financial Services Paw Print & Copy Center Purchasing Marketing & Communications ADMISSIONS Get Started High School Students First Year Transfer Returning Active Duty and Veterans International Extended Studies Online Studies Graduate Studies Cost and Aid Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Residence Life and Housing Scholarships Student Financial Services Visit and Apply Apply Now Orientation Virtual Tour Visit Campus ACADEMICS Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Online Programs 3+2 Programs Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Course Offerings Colleges and Schools College of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics College of Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences Hasan School of Business School of Creativity & Practice School of Nursing School of Education School of Health Sciences and Human Movement CSU Pueblo Online Extended Studies Resources Pack Center - Advising Tutoring Services Career Center Disability Resource & Support Center Testing Center Center for Teaching & Learning Research & Sponsored Programs TRIO Programs Registrar's Office Provost's Office Semester Notes University Library CAMPUS LIFE Get Involved Associated Students' Government (ASG) Greek Life Student Engagement & Leadership Outdoor Pursuits Diversity & Inclusion On Campus Campus Safety Parking Career Center Center for International Programs & Inclusive Excellence Undocu Residence Life and Housing Student Affairs ThunderWolf Recreation Student Services Support Services IT Help Desk Auxiliary Services Bookstore Counseling Center PACK Cares Pack Pantry WolfPack Wellness Center Student Employment Student Financial Services Student Conduct ATHLETICS Information Pack Camps Quick Facts Support the Pack Explore and Attend Facilities Maps Staff Tickets ThunderWolf Recreation Facilities & Events Sports & Competition Members & Guest Services ThunderWolf Recreation ONLINE Online Get Started Calendar and Tuition Contact Us Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates Resources Online Portal Scholarships Reading Material Request More Information Prospective Student Parent Alumni Current Student Faculty and Staff Apply Give Visit CAMPUS CLOSED on Monday, May 30th. Campus is closed on Monday, May 30th in celebration of Memorial Day. ABOUT University Fast Facts History Vision, Mission, and Values Office of the President University Leadership Accreditation Assessment Foundation Strategic Plan Explore A - Z Index Calendar Campus Directory Campus Employment University Policies Press Releases Pueblo and Region Wolf Den News Departments Quick Links Alumni & Community Relations Auxiliary Services Human Resources Information Technology Facilities Management Institute of Cannabis Research Institutional Research Business Financial Services Paw Print & Copy Center Purchasing Marketing & Communications X ADMISSIONS Get Started High School Students First Year Transfer Returning Active Duty and Veterans International Extended Studies Online Studies Graduate Studies Cost and Aid Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Residence Life and Housing Scholarships Student Financial Services Visit and Apply Apply Now Orientation Virtual Tour Visit Campus X ACADEMICS Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Online Programs 3+2 Programs Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Course Offerings Colleges and Schools College of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics College of Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences Hasan School of Business School of Creativity & Practice School of Nursing School of Education School of Health Sciences and Human Movement CSU Pueblo Online Extended Studies Resources Pack Center - Advising Tutoring Services Career Center Disability Resource & Support Center Testing Center Center for Teaching & Learning Research & Sponsored Programs TRIO Programs Registrar's Office Provost's Office Semester Notes University Library X CAMPUS LIFE Get Involved Associated Students' Government (ASG) Greek Life Student Engagement & Leadership Outdoor Pursuits Diversity & Inclusion On Campus Campus Safety Parking Career Center Center for International Programs & Inclusive Excellence Undocu Residence Life and Housing Student Affairs ThunderWolf Recreation Student Services Support Services IT Help Desk Auxiliary Services Bookstore Counseling Center PACK Cares Pack Pantry WolfPack Wellness Center Student Employment Student Financial Services Student Conduct X ATHLETICS Information Pack Camps Quick Facts Support the Pack Explore and Attend Facilities Maps Staff Tickets ThunderWolf Recreation Facilities & Events Sports & Competition Members & Guest Services ThunderWolf Recreation X ONLINE Online Get Started Calendar and Tuition Contact Us Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates Resources Online Portal Scholarships Reading Material Request More Information X Apply Give Visit I am a...CLOSE Prospective Student Parent Alumni Current Student Faculty and Staff Search MENU CLOSE Search CSU Pueblo Pack Promise The Pack Promise, similar to Colorado Promise, is a free tuition initiative for our current Colorado resident undergraduate students enrolling in Fall 2022 and Spring 2023 semesters. Learn more on how to register for fall and take advantage of this one-time opportunity! Learn More Summer 2022 Advising for summer courses is now open. New and current students are eligible for a $500 scholarship if enrolled in 9 or more summer credits. Scholarship Interest Form Registration is Open Registration for both summer and fall courses is open for continuing students. Students can register for classes in self-service Banner or reference the following instructions and resources. Student Registration News & Announcements View All News Colorado Governor Jared Polis Was On the Colorado State University Pueblo Campus on Friday, May 27th to Sign Two Bills Pueblo— Colorado Gov. Jared Polis was on the Colorado State University Pueblo campus Friday, May 27th to sign two bills that will create a new institution of transportation technology on campus and to help make... CSU Pueblo Names Dr. Steve Norman as Dean of HSB Steve Norman, Ph.D., returns to Colorado State University Pueblo in his new role as Dean of the Hasan School of Business (HSB).... Colorado State University Pueblo Announces Merit Scholars Through the CSU Pueblo Foundation Pueblo – Colorado State University Pueblo has announced the names of 13 local students who will receive prominent merit scholarships through the CSU Pueblo Foundation. Twelve of these high-achieving students will... Online. Hybrid. On Campus. $1200 Transfer Scholarship $1200 Transfer Scholarship Whether you’re transitioning from a 2-year school or transferring from your previous four-year college or university, Colorado State University Pueblo is a great choice for your next step. $1200 Scholarship Details Free Tuition: Colorado Promise Free Tuition: Colorado Promise The Colorado Promise Scholarship recipients will be guaranteed free tuition for one year, but may be continued up to four years as long as the student maintains full-time enrollment and a GPA of 3.0 or higher. Learn more about Free Tuition 50+ Academic Offerings 50+ Academic Offerings CSU Pueblo offers a breadth of opportunity with a variety of undergraduate and graduate degree programs. We are here to help students narrow their choices and guide their progress towards their degree. Academic Programs COVID-19 Updates COVID-19 Updates For information and updates regarding COVID-19's impact on campus, including necessary health and safety precautions please visit our Coronavirus site. Coronavirus Spring 2022 Commencement Spring 2022 Commencement Congratulations Fall 2021 and 2022 Graduates! We are so very proud of you and your accomplishments. Learn more about important information and frequently asked questions regarding Spring 2022 Commencement ceremonies. Commencement Rec of the Month Rec of the Month The ThunderWolf Recreation Center was recognized as the December 2021 "Rec of the Month" by CampusRec. Read More Life. Changing. Colorado State University Pueblo gives all students the opportunity to further their education and develop the resiliency and agility needed to successfully navigate a rapidly changing world. Apply Explore Visit About #VISION2028 Over the next 10 years, Colorado State University Pueblo will reimagine higher education across the Southwest United States, in our region, for our community, and on our Pueblo campus. Annual Report Campus Events View All Events All Jun 04 SAT Testing 7:30 AM to 2:00 PM SAT Testing. Test candidates will report to the General Classroom Building (GCB) lobby at 7:30 AM with their admissions ticket and a valid photo ID.... Jun 11 CANCELED: ACT Testing 7:30 AM to 2:00 PM ACT Testing is canceled for June 11, 2022. Please contact ACT to change your testing date and location.... Jul 16 ACT Testing 8:00 AM to 2:00 PM ACT Testing. Test candidates will report to the General Classroom Building (GCB) lobby at 7:30 AM with their admissions ticket and a valid photo ID.... LOCATION & CONTACT Campus Map 2200 Bonforte Blvd Pueblo, CO 81001-4901 719-549-2100 info@csupueblo.edu More Contacts COLLEGES & SCHOOLS Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics Humanities, Arts & Social Sciences Hasan School of Business School of Nursing School of Education Health Sciences & Human Movement Extended and Online Studies RESOURCES Campus Map Directory University Library Information Technology Policies Campus Safety Human Resources CSU SYSTEM CSU Pueblo CSU Fort Collins CSU Global CSU System Connect With #CSUPueblo social social social social Privacy Statement Equal Opportunity Title IX Employment Disclaimer Back to Top