Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Fort Lauderdale Home Connect Chapters Florida Fort Lauderdale Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa The Fort Lauderdale Chapter consists of over 1,000 alumni, parents, and friends and spans from Boca Raton to north of Miami. The chapter gathers for numerous events throughout the year; including Global Days of Service, game watches, networking events, and professional sports events. The Fort Lauderdale Chapter often partners with both the Miami and Palm Beach chapters to engage with as many Eagles as possible on the East Coast! We look forward to hearing from you and connecting! 1,064 Alumni Parents & Friends social leaders contact us events Follow Us Fort Lauderdale Chapter Facebook Page Fort Lauderdale Chapter Twitter Fort Lauderdale Chapter Instagram Meet Your Chapter Leaders Kristen McTeague '95 Lives in: Pompano Beach, Florida Major: English Occupation: Construction Operations Manager Favorite BC Memory: One of my friend's parents had a great tailgating spot. They would load up the car with a huge Italian spread for game day. So much food! Our extended friend group would gather pre and post-game, and it was as much about hanging out with the parents as it was with one another. For me, being from Florida, they were among the many surrogate parents I was fortunate to have during my time at BC, and I have always been grateful to my friends for sharing their families with me. Why did you get involved in your local chapter?: I moved home to South Florida a few years ago after being gone for 20 years. I was living and working in an area different from where I grew up so I was looking for social and professional networking opportunities. Everywhere I have gone in the world I have come across BC grads, and I am still in touch with many of my college friends. Maintaining a connection to BC is important to me. What I found in the local alumni chapter were people like me who recently moved home or were new to Florida looking to keep up that BC connection, as well as those looking to reconnect to BC. Through our chapter I have met fantastic people and had so many thoughtful conversations. What are your local favorites in your city?: I love anywhere I can sit outside and enjoy a great meal or cocktail with a fantastic view of the sun, surf, and sand. I also enjoy exploring the robust South Florida craft beer industry. Fortunately, we have lots of options in the Fort Lauderdale area! Fun Fact: I love to travel. I have been to almost every state in the US and I am really looking forward to getting back out there to check off the remaining ones and revisit many other special places. In the meantime, I plan to explore all that Florida has to offer. Alumni Staff Liaison Name: Maria D'Alessandro '11, CGSOM'18 Contact: knoerrm@bc.edu Events ENGAGE WITH US ON EAGLE EXCHANGE! STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Search by location to connect with local Eagles! Join Today Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok