Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University Libraries About Services Instruction Digital Commons Special Collections Government Publications Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact MLK50 MLK Speech Calendar of Events University Libraries Special Collections ULDR Ben Hooks Papers Take Action Ask-a-Librarian Interlibrary Loan Reserve Space My Library Account Follow The Libraries InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeBlogsVimeo Home Libraries MLK50 MLK50 Speech Martin Luther King Jr. Speech On July 6, 1965, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., addressed the fifth General Synod of the United Church of Christ in Chicago. A copy of the twenty-page typed text, with hand-written corrections and additions by Dr. King, was purchased in 2017 by Avron B. Fogelman, the prominent Memphis philanthropist and supporter of the University of Memphis. Mr. Fogelman graciously allowed the speech to be displayed in the university’s Ned R. McWherter Library in March and April 2018 as part of the fiftieth anniversary commemoration of Dr. King’s death. Dr. King was invited by the predominately-white United Church of Christ to speak on the topic “Man in a Revolutionary World” and in the speech he urged the white churches to join with the black churches in the civil rights movement. He said it was the church’s role to take the moral lead and condemn racial segregation and discrimination, which many white churches had supported historically. He acknowledged that changes in the law were important but the hardest task was to change people’s thinking and that was a great responsibility of the church. Dr. King noted that the recent protests in Selma and Birmingham, Alabama, and in Mississippi had helped white churches to realize their responsibility and had led to the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the forthcoming Voting Rights Act. But there was still much to do, especially in the areas of inequality of employment, education and housing. In 1965, Dr. King was in Chicago to join the fight against segregated housing and he was soon to redirect his efforts to tackling the socio-economic challenges of poverty among black people. That issue would bring him to Memphis three years later in support of the sanitation workers’ strike in early 1968. It is the hand-written amendments and additions by Dr. King that make the document unique. These include extensive notes on the last page with references to passages in the Bible that Dr. King often liked to use, and which appeared in his famous “Mountaintop” speech in Memphis. The notes end with the rousing words of the civil rights movement, “We Shall Overcome.” The text of Dr. King’s speech published in the proceedings of the synod by the United Church of Christ does not include the annotations, which suggests that he used the speech as a basis for a subsequent speech to another audience. Considering the hundreds of speeches Dr. King was giving annually at this time, it would not be surprising that he gave similar speeches with amendments to cater to different audiences. Unfortunately, there is no indication on the speech when and where the amended version was delivered. Below is the speech in its entirety: Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/18/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.