Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Is it safe for my child to return to play after a COVID infection?  February 7, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email Children, like adults, want to get back to life as usual as soon as possible after a COVID infection. Everyone can mask up and sit at a desk, but what about gym class and organized sports? Current CDC guidelines state students can return to school after five days. Some schools require a doctor to sign off before allowing students with mild or asymptomatic infections to rejoin organized play well in advance of the previously recommended 14-day waiting period. In response, a committee of pediatric cardiologists at Columbia University updated return to play guidance to aid health care providers. Rachel Weller, MD, assistant professor of pediatrics at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, adapted that guidance for parents and caregivers: Asymptomatic and mild cases Children and adolescents who were asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic should have at least a telephone call with their pediatrician. Overall, says Weller, the group’s advice is: It is reasonable to resume full play seven days after a positive COVID test and 72 hours after resolution of symptoms if your child has no symptoms of myocarditis (inflammation of the heart). It is rare for children with asymptomatic, mild, or moderate COVID infection to develop myocarditis, but it can occur, says Weller. Symptoms of myocarditis can arise at any point in the first months following a COVID infection but are more likely to show within seven days after a positive COVID test. A person with myocarditis may develop an abnormal heart rhythm or even experience sudden death during physical activity. “I don’t want to scare parents, because heart issues only arise in less than 1% of kids who get COVID,” says Weller. “But parents need to be on the lookout, because the issue can be serious and it’s happening to otherwise healthy children who had no symptoms or mild reactions to the infection." What to look for Look for symptoms that are new and appear days or weeks after a COVID infection, especially: Chest pain    Fainting or near-fainting    Fatigue (exercise intolerance)    Palpitations  Significant shortness of breath    Any child with these symptoms should be seen by their pediatrician and get an ECG. Moderate cases  Children with moderate infection (at least four days of fever and/or prolonged muscle aches/tiredness) should have an in-person visit with their pediatrician. “These children need to wait 10 days to return to play,” Weller says. Children returning to an organized sport need a screening ECG as well, even if they have no symptoms of myocarditis. Weller adds: "It is reasonable for pediatricians to do an ECG even for PE class clearance if they have any concerns, ” (a recommendation that varies slightly from AAP guidelines that recommend ECGs for all children with moderate COVID). See your pediatrician    “They’ll get sick and then they will be fine” is something Weller has heard parents say, but that does not apply when it comes to COVID. If your child or adolescent has concerning symptoms at any point in the first couple of months following COVID infection, you should see your pediatrician. The doctor will likely do an ECG and may refer you to a cardiologist for further evaluation.   Even without heart involvement, it is not uncommon to be deconditioned following COVID infection, so your child should be allowed to self-limit and ease more slowly into full activity if needed.  References More information Rachel Weller, MD, is assistant  professor of pediatrics at Columbia University Vagelos  College of Physicians and Surgeons. She treats  patients  with congenital heart disease and children and teenagers with symptoms such as fainting, chest pain, and heart murmurs. Weller is  part of  a multidisciplinary  team that follows  patients with  multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children  (MIS-C), a  syndrome of post-COVID  total body inflammation. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top