Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Message from the Dean News and Events Administration Locations and Directions Contact Us Professional Certificates Credit and Degree Programs Bachelor of General Studies Credit Certificate Programs Intersessions Non-degree Seeking Short-Term Credit Programs Summer Scholars Program Summer Sessions Visiting Student Program Language Programs Custom Language Programs Intensive English Program Intensive Spanish Program Graduate Student Programs Online Language Programs OLLI at UM About Professional Certificates Credit and Degree Programs Language Programs OLLI at UM Search Welcome from the Dean Locations and Directions Administration News and Events Contact Us About Message from the Dean News and Events Administration Locations and Directions Contact Us Professional Certificates Credit and Degree Programs Bachelor of General Studies Credit Certificate Programs Intersessions Non-degree Seeking Short-Term Credit Programs Summer Scholars Program Summer Sessions Visiting Student Program Language Programs Custom Language Programs Intensive English Program Intensive Spanish Program Graduate Student Programs Online Language Programs OLLI at UM Welcome from the Dean Locations and Directions Administration News and Events Contact Us About Professional Certificate Programs Credit & Degree Programs Language Programs Osher Lifelong Learning Online Home About DCIE Message from the Dean AAA Welcome from the Dean Welcome from the Dean Locations and Directions Administration News and Events Contact Us What's next in your life? A new career, a path towards promotion? Earning a bachelor's degree while working? Pursuing your curiosity about a particular subject? Learning a new skill? Studying a foreign language? From high school through retirement, our innovative courses and programs will prepare you for whatever is next, giving you the skills you need to live the life you want. Learn with the University of Miami online, on campus, or through a combination of both - we've disrupted traditional educational structures to bring learning to people where they can best take advantage of it. We're constantly seeking out new ways to disseminate knowledge. We collaborate with both outside industry experts and UM faculty members to create new course offerings, which implement new ways of teaching and make knowledge accessible to people who may not have had access to it in the past. Pursue the next chapter in your career with intensive, career-oriented certification programs; micro-credentials and badges for specific skills; our versatile, online or on-campus Bachelor of General Studies degree; or classes that grant continuing education units (CEUs). Start a new journey in your life with customized language programs, our Intensive English Program for students from all over the world, or classes and programs from our Osher Lifelong Learning Institute - designed for learners over 50. If you want, you can have the full University of Miami student experience, whatever your age or life situation. As part of a mid-sized top tier university, our goal is to ensure that each learner's experience is meaningful. Our passionate staff will work closely with you to make sure you achieve your goals through the programs you choose. We're devoted to our students, checking on each person's progress, connecting them to appropriate resources, and being there to help with anything else they need to take the next steps in their lives when they complete their work. If you're looking to follow a passion, to define your life, change your life, or enrich your life, your journey begins with us. Rebecca MacMillan Fox, Ph.D. Dean, Division of Continuing and International Education University of Miami University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Division of Continuing and International Education 5050 Brunson Drive Room 111 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4000 305-284-4000 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-instagram social-twitter social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices