Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Student Center and Activities Student Organizations Student Organizations Guidelines and Funding Options Student Organization Resources Hughes-Trigg Student Center Hughes-Trigg Student Center Welcome Desk HTSC Renovations Event Information Event Information HTSC Event Calendar Reservation Rates Room Features HTSC Procedures About Us ☰ Student Center and Activities Event Information Reservation Rates Reservation Rates Effective January 10th, SMU is utilizing the STABLE software to manage event reservations across campus. To reserve a room and resources, log in to STABLE at smu.edu/stable. Clients external to SMU can fill out an Event Request Form here. If you need to reserve a space “as-is” in the Hughes-Trigg Student Center, utilize the Indoor Reservations form. If your event requires resources (Audio/Visual support, tables & chairs, catering, etc.), you must ALSO fill out the Indoor Event Request form at least 5 business days before your event. There is no charge to utilize HTSC spaces and resources for SMU departments or student organizations. Exceptions to this are as follows: Damage incurred to property or resources No-notice cancellations An SMU member uses their reservation privilege to book a space for which a non-SMU entity is the primary host/audience/participant (such as seminars for the general public or recruiting/advertising) and/or does not directly serve current SMU students, faculty, or staff (i.e., hosting a meeting or conference for your professional network) Attendees are charged for admission, refreshments, or any part of their participation During the transition to the STABLE software, it is anticipated that there will be a period of adjustment for both clients and space managers. Before reaching out to Hughes-Trigg personnel, familiarize yourself with the easy-to-follow instructional video here, FAQs here and tutorial resources here. If you still have questions or concerns after examining these resources, please e-mail htsc@smu.edu and our staff will respond as soon as they are able. We look forward to hosting you soon! For a full breakdown of the cost of each reservable space, please click the link below. Reservation Rates At this time, reservation rates for external clients are all-inclusive and have been determined based on the average use of facilities setup and takedown, audio/visual support utilization, and wear-and-tear on rooms and resources. Additional fees may apply if reservations meet conditions that include, but are not limited to: holds on spaces outside of the day of events; no-notice cancellations; and, damage sustained to property or resources. These rates are subject to change at any time, but events will not incur charges beyond what has been confirmed during reservation. View HTSC Event Guidelines Questions? Call 214-768-4400 Email HTSC@smu.edu Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share