Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy College of Undergraduate Studies News Limbitless Solutions Recognized as One of Florida’s Best Manufacturing Companies The UCF-based company is being honored with a Florida Sterling Manufacturing Business Excellence Award for its model operations. 10 UCF Students Recognized by NSF Graduate Research Fellowships Program A Google co-founder and other changemakers have received these awards in the past. Two of the awardees graduate this spring. 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. UCF’s First In-person Student Scholar Symposium an Outstanding Success More than 450 projects were presented during the two-day event. Student Research Week: Can Wetlands Help Clean the Mess Your Laundry Makes? Sophia Stahl examines if treatment wetlands are effective at cleaning up the microplastics released in laundry wastewater. Student Research Week Kicks off March 28 with a Whole New Look and Feel After decades of following the same format, Research Week has been reimagined to enhance the student experience. Faculty Honored at UCF’s 3rd Authors Celebration Forty-seven faculty members were honored for their works, which ranged from novels to textbooks. UCF Selected for New NSF Student Research Program in Conservation, Restoration, Communication First-generation and underrepresented students are especially encouraged to apply to the program — and five other similar programs from varying disciplines — before March deadlines. Associate Provost for UCF Downtown Named Ross Wolf ’88 ’91MPA ’98EdD will play a key role in shaping the future of UCF’s urban campus of more than 7,500 students. Graduating Senior Plots a Path for Environmental Justice Environmental studies student Sarah Royer chooses a path to help create a better and cleaner tomorrow. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida