Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Things To Do » Intramural Sports Set Navigation title in component Fitness Classes Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports Intramural Sports Rules Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Intramural Sports Welcome to UC Intramural Sports! Whether you are looking to participate in traditional or non-traditional sports, recreational or competitive leagues, or to develop your leadership skills, be sure to explore all sport options that Campus Recreation Intramural Sports have to offer. Overview All participants must be both active members of the Campus Recreation Center and a current UC student, faculty, or staff member. Payment must be received in order to reserve a team’s spot in a league. Team registration on IMLeagues prior to payment does not hold a team’s spot. Spring 2022 Semester Intramurals League Days/Times (IMLeagues) Registration dates, season dates, and fees for participating in intramural sports 2022 season. Sport Early Bird Registration Team Fee Early Bird Registration Dates Normal Registration Team Fee Normal Registration Dates Play Begins 5-on-5 Basketball $165/team Dec. 13 - Jan. 14 $175/team Jan. 15 - 20 Jan. 25 Racquetball Singles $10/player Dec. 13 - Jan. 14 $10/player Jan. 15 - 20 Jan. 25 7-on-7 Outdoor Soccer $165/team Feb. 7 - 18 $175/team Feb. 19 -24 Feb. 27 4-on-4 Volleyball $115/team Feb. 7 - 18 $125/team Feb. 19 -24 Feb. 27 Kickball $115/team Feb. 7-18 $125/team Feb. 19-24 Feb. 27 Pickleball Doubles $40/team Feb. 7 - Mar. 4 $50/team Mar. 5 - 9 Mar. 20 How to Participate Team Registration Process for Captains Step 1: Pay the team fee online (REQUIRED TO RESERVE SPOT) right arrow down arrow Sign up for a myMemberServices account (if you have not done so already) by visiting the new account page, entering your M number, and following the prompts to create an account. Log in to myMemberServices. Click on Program Registration. Click on Intramurals. Click on View Programs under the sport you would like to register for. Click on Add to Cart for the division(s) you would like to pay for. Click on the cart program at the top of the page, and follow the prompts to submit payment. You will receive a confirmation email from our intramural sports department within two business days with further league instructions. If you need to pay with cash or check, please contact intramural@uc.edu. Step 2: Register your team on IMLeagues. right arrow down arrow Login to the UC IMLeagues website. If you do not have an account, select Create Account at the top of the page. Select Register in the middle of the page. Scroll down and select the sport and league that you registered for (e.g., Open Basketball). Select Create Team under the "Register Here" division. Your team's status will default to Pending.  An administrator will change it to Confirmed and move it to the night you paid for within one to three business days of your payment. *Registration on IMLeagues prior to payment does not hold a spot in the desired league/division. Step 3: Complete the online captain's meeting and pass the captain's quiz by noon on the first day of the season. right arrow down arrow After registering your team on IMLeagues, go to your team's home page.  At the top of the page will be a light red bar that says, "The team captain must pass a quiz for this team.  To take the quiz select Click Here. Watch the video and complete the quiz. Following the quiz, your score will be displayed.  You must correctly answer at least eight out of ten questions to pass.  If you did not pass, there will be a Re-take Quiz  button at the bottom of the page. The team captain must pass the quiz prior to the team's first game.  Failure to do so will render the team ineligible for playoffs. Step 4: Have the minimum number of players confirmed on your IMLeagues roster by noon on the first day of the season. right arrow down arrow Your team must have the required number of players CONFIRMED (see below) on your roster on IMLeagues by the season start date.  Minimum number of confirmed players on IMLeagues roster required by sport: Racquetball singles: one player Doubles pickleball: two players 4-on-4 volleyball, 5-on-5 basketball: three players 7-on-7 outdoor soccer: five players Kickball: eight players Team Members (Non-Captains) The team captain should pay for and register the team. Team members should contact their captain to determine payment. Team members can also request to join their team on IMLeagues if the captain has completed this step. Free Agents Free agency is for individuals who currently do not have an intramural team to play on. Currently, the only guaranteed way to play intramurals is to find a team to join or create a team. Free agency allows for individuals to communicate and form teams. Captains may also browse listings and pick up players. Free agents should not pay the team fee if they have not formed a complete team. Free Agency Options Sign Up as a Free Agent right arrow down arrow Visit IMLeagues, create an IMLeagues account (if you have not done so already), and login. Click on University of Cincinnati at the top of the page. Scroll down and click on the league/sport you would like to become a free agent in (e.g., Coed A Soccer, Men's B Dodgeball). Click on Join As Free Agent and complete your listing. View/Contact Free Agents right arrow down arrow As a free agent, you can contact other free agents to see if they are interested in forming a team. As a captain, you can go through the free agent directory and message individuals if you are looking for players. Visit IMLeagues, create an IMLeagues account (if you have not done so already), and login. Click on University of Cincinnati at the top of the page. Scroll down and click on the league/sport you are interested in or the captain of a team in (e.g., Coed A Soccer, Men's B Dodgeball). Click on Free Agents near the top of the page. You can directly message free agents or move free agents to your team via IMLeagues. If On Campus, Contact Your RA right arrow down arrow If you live on campus, your RA may help you facilitate seeing if others in your dorm are interested in forming a team. Crosstown Championship Series Each year University of Cincinnati and Xavier University intramural sports departments collaborate to present the UC vs. XU Crosstown Intramural Champions Series event! This event features each university's intramural 5-on-5 basketball champions. This event is FREE of charge to spectators and participants. 2022 Intramural Crossotwn Championship Series Thursday, April 21, 2022 Xavier University Rec Center 7-10pm FREE Interested spectators may park in the C-4 parking lot. Upon arrival at the front desk, tell them you are there to watch the Intramural Crosstown event. Series History 2019 - XU 3-2 2018 - XU 3-2 2017 - UC 3-2 2016 - UC 4-1 2015 - XU 4-1 Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top