Skip Navigation menu Sign-ons CyMail Outlook Canvas AccessPlus Workday More Directory Maps Contact Us Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Policy Library Home About Policy Index Feedback menu Browse by Category Academics Business & Administration Facilities & Property Information & Technology Personnel, Conduct & Human Relations Research & Intellectual Property Safety & Health Student Life Handbooks & Manuals Faculty Handbook Graduate College Handbook Regents Policy Manual University Catalog Other Resources University Forms Records Retention Schedule ISU Compliance and Ethics Hotline New and Recently Updated Policies What's new and important for you to know? 3D PRINTING AND ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING Use of additive manufacturing equipment is limited to any lawful purpose as permitted by the university. This new policy, effective June 21, 2021, applies to all additive manufacturing technologies and equipment, including but not limited to 3D printers. VISITING SCHOLARS The new Visiting Scholars policy governs the designation, approval, roles, and the overall responsibility for visiting scholars at Iowa State. The Visiting Scholars website provides additional information and guidance. A request to host a visiting scholar at Iowa State University may be made consistent with this policy beginning May 10, 2021. RESEARCH DATA The purpose of the new Research Data policy, effective February 1, 2021, is to describe the rights and responsibilities of investigators and Iowa State University in the use, retention, maintenance and sharing of data generated as part of ISU’s research enterprise. USE OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES IN RESEARCH The State of Iowa and federal law requires that use of controlled substances for research purposes must comply with applicable regulations. The new policy on the Use of Controlled Substances in Research governs requirements for procurement, documentation, storage, and disposal of controlled substances used in research at Iowa State University. Effective January 1, 2021. FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (FMLA) ISU FMLA policy is based on federal law which provides eligible employees with job-protected leave for qualifying events or circumstances. The revised FMLA policy, effective January 1, 2021, switches FMLA from a calendar year approach to a rolling year cycle. REVISED AND RENAMED See these revised policies effective August 14, 2020, updated for compliance with new federal regulations: Title IX Sexual Harassment, Sexual Assault, Dating Violence, Domestic Violence, and Stalking (formerly Sexual Misconduct...) Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment (formerly Discrimination and Harassment) STUDENT CODE OF CONDUCT The revised Student Code of Conduct, effective August 1, 2020, includes reformatting, revisions, and additions to prohibited conduct for purposes of clarity and improved reporting processes, inclusion of current practices not previously shared in the Code, as well as appropriate referral to related university policies. Clarifications and revisions have also been made in the process and procedures to provide greater detail and to reduce procedural ambiguity. Policies in Development Submit Comments! Please submit your comments and questions regarding draft policies to policy@iastate.edu or use the Feedback button above. Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved.