Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Become a Student Career Services Employers Recruit With Us Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Career Day Post a Job Recruit With Us Recruiting Policy Facts & Figures Career Day Post a Job Recruit With Us Recruiting Policy Facts & Figures Recruit With Us Career Services at the Mailman School is here to help your organization find high-quality job or internship candidates. To help you identify talent that meets your hiring objectives, please explore: Mailman CareerLink On-campus recruiting (e.g., information sessions and interviewing) Fall and Spring Career Day events Fall and Spring industry career panels Creating a structured practicum opportunity You can also search for prospective employees in our online resume books, which are available on a complimentary basis to prospective employers through Mailman CareerLink. To access resume books of students, please log in to CareerLink. Then click "Resume Books" on the left. You can search by resume keywords by typing into the "Resume Text Search" box. You can also search by academic department by searching under "Major." To create a resume book, click the small box at the top of the search results to select all results. Then click "Generate Book" under batch options. The services, resources, and facilities of the Career Services are available, free of charge, to employers who adhere to policies against discrimination based on race, color, national origin, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation, disability, or other protected groups. We ask all employers to follow our Employer Policy, detailed here. Additionally, we support the NACE Principles for Professional Conduct for career services and employment professionals. Contact Us For detailed information on the many options available to assist you in recruiting Mailman School of Public Health students and alumni, please email msphocs [at] cumc.columbia.edu (Career Services). For more information on how to create a structured practicum, please visit this page. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Gun Violence Prevention Experts Respond to Mass Shootings May 27 2022 Our Experts Help Explain the Monkeypox OutbreakMay 26 2022 A Q&A With Prof. Merlin ChowkwanyunMay 24 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers