Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Economics - Management Career Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Economics - Management Career Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Economics - Management Career Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Management Career Certificate (Undergraduate) The undergraduate Management Career Certificate in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University is designed for students in nonbusiness majors interested in acquiring business skills required by corporate and nonprofit employers. Through a focused curriculum, students will build upon their foundational education in the liberal arts, developing knowledge in areas such as accounting, economics, human resource management and marketing. The field of economics is centered on solving real-world problems, and the Management Career Certificate (undergraduate) prepares students for employment in business, nonprofits and other economic sectors. Classes & Curriculum Certificates are awarded only at the time of completion of the bachelor's degree and cannot be awarded either as a stand-alone program of study or after completion of the first bachelor's degree. The 18- or 19-credit undergraduate certificate curriculum comprises core and elective courses. The following courses are required. Financial Accounting Leadership and Organizational Management Microeconomic Principles Students also select one course from the following options. Industrial and Organizational Psychology Marketing Management Students are also required to complete a statistics course. An additional course is required from the following list of electives. Business and Public Policy Computers and Applications Economic Geography Economics of American Industry Foundations of Industrial and Organizational Psychology Introduction to Human Resource Management Macroeconomic Principles Managerial Accounting Marketing Management Politics of the Global Economy The Economics of Sports Learn more about the required courses for the Management Career Undergraduate Certificate. Related Graduate Degrees Economics MA Internships & Opportunities In addition to coursework, students in the Management Career Undergraduate Certificate have the opportunity to complete an internship or practicum. Students should see the certificate advisor prior to registration for written approval. Careers A liberal arts education, combined with the skills acquired with the Management Career Certificate, provides students with a unique edge in the professional world. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For questions regarding the Management Career Undergraduate Certificate, contact the following staff member. Moritz Ritter is the director of undergraduate studies. Phone: 215-204-5029 Email: moritz.ritter@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Economics Department. William Stull is the chair of the Economics Department. Email: stull@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-ECMG-CR2+ Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Economics - Management Career Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info