Skip to main content Apply Canvas Map Calendar Library Directory MyUW more_vert more_vert Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search News & Information News & Information News Stories UWT in the News Podcast: Paw'd Defiance Subscribe MyUW Map Tools AERA Recognizes Dr. Robin Starr Zape-tah-hol-ah Minthorn April 25, 2022 Minthorn has received the 2022 Exemplary Contributions to Practice-Engaged Research Award. Dr. Robin Starr Zape-tah-hol-ah Minthorn, associate professor in the UW Tacoma School of Education and director of the doctorate in educational leadership program, has received the 2022 Exemplary Contributions to Practice-Engaged Research Award from the American Educational Research Association (AERA). AERA, based in Washington, D.C., is described as the nation’s largest interdisciplinary research association focusing on the scientific study of education and learning. In a release, AERA said, “This award is presented to an education research scholar or scholars in recognition of collaborative projects between researchers and practitioners that have had sustained and observable effects on contexts of practice.” “Dr. Minthorn has advanced community-centered partnerships with tribal communities in the Southwestern and Pacific Northwest regions of the U.S.,” said AERA. “Colleagues have lauded Dr. Minthorn’s unwavering commitment to decolonizing educational leadership and centering Indigenous paradigms in ways that embody her notion of ‘heartwork.’” “Dr. Minthorn is most deserving of the 2022 AERA award,” said Dr. Rachel Endo, dean and professor in the School of Education. “As a highly-regarded national scholar of Indigenous leadership and student experiences in higher education, she centers reciprocal and respectful approaches to collaborative practice-based research.” Dr. Minthorn is quick to point out that she is not working alone in the field. “I want to acknowledge the tribal communities I have been able to connect and build relationships with and the Indigenous students I have had the honor to know over the years,” she said. “I know I — along with many others — am building on the legacy of many who have come before us in Indigenous education. I also want to acknowledge the Ancestors we uplift in our heart work.” Dr. Minthorn was recognized at an awards ceremony during the 2022 annual AERA meeting on April 24 in San Diego. Indigenizing Higher Education UW Tacoma's School of Education and the Muckleshoot Indian Tribe have signed a memorandum of agreement that is bringing doctoral education to the tribal college. Read more Written by John Burkhardt Academic Affairs Awards Faculty Research School of Education Recent news Making a Connection UW Tacoma senior Leticia Barreto embraced campus life and opened up a world of opportunities. Gold Star spouse McClintock keynotes remembrance ceremony Alexandra McClintock, '22, will speak at UW Tacoma's 2022 Memorial Day Remembrance ceremony. Her husband, SFC Matthew McClintock, was killed in 2016 while serving in Afghanistan. Completing These Certificates Changed My Life Diane Lyons, '16, reinvented herself through certificate programs with the UW Tacoma Professional Development Center. More Recent News UW Tacoma in the News Secrets of Success: 2022 South Sound Business writers Madison Miller, Blake Peterson, John Stearns, Stephanie Quiroz, and Hailee Wickersham interview successful South Sound professionals to discover how they overcame personal challenges and obstacles to achieve success. South Sound Business - Online Edition - April 25, 2022 Economic and policy experts argue against repealing the capital gains tax Nine economic and policy experts, including UW Tacoma's Katie Baird, Anna Lovasz and Tim Scharks, call on voters to reject I-1929, which would repeal the capital gains tax established by the legislature in 2021. Washington State Wire - April 18, 2022 Inslee appoints Jon Scott to Snohomish County Superior Court Jon Scott, '96, most recently served as a senior trial attorney with the Snohomish County Public Defender Association. Washington Governor Jay Inslee News - April 15, 2022 More UW Tacoma in the News Contact News & Information email uwtnews@uw.edu phone_iphone 123-456-7890 ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts UWNetID login UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy