Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Home > Home > Academic planning > Choosing your major/courses > Cross-campus registration Cross-campus registration Interested in taking classes at UW Bothell or Tacoma? Freshmen, sophomores, juniors, seniors, and postbaccalaureate students enrolled at one UW campus may register using MyUW for courses at another UW campus beginning with Period 2 registration. In summer quarter, cross-campus enrollment is allowed in Period 1 as well. Process based on class standing Freshmen Once admitted, freshmen must complete 25 credit hours on their home campus before enrolling in courses on other UW campuses. (UW Professional and Continuing Education courses are not considered home campus courses.) Sophomores, Juniors, Seniors, and Postbaccalaureate students All students with a class standing from sophomore to postbaccalaureate must complete 15 credits on their home campus before cross-enrolling. Non-matriculated students Non-matriculated students may not enroll cross campus except in summer quarter. This includes non-matriculated students taking courses under the staff or Washington State Tuition Waiver. Graduate students and graduate non-matriculated students There are no restrictions on graduate students registering in courses cross-campus. Summer quarter All students (including non-matriculating) may cross-enroll during the summer quarter, and they may register during Period 1. Freshmen, sophomores, juniors, seniors, and postbaccalaureate students must complete the required number of home-campus credits first. Credit limits A maximum of 15 credits per academic year (autumn quarter through summer quarter) may be taken on a campus other than the home campus. This restriction is monitored by the registration system. A maximum of 45 credits earned through cross-campus enrollment may count toward a bachelor's degree. This restriction is not monitored, so there is no restriction to the number of credits a student may complete by cross-campus enrollment, only to the number that may count toward a degree. If there are excess cross-campus enrollment credits, the department adviser should note this on the application for graduation so the credits can be subtracted. DARS is not programmed to know at which campus courses are completed, so a DARS audit will not point out excess cross-campus enrollment credits. Note that this 45-credit limit applies only to credits taken at one UW campus while enrolled at another. A student who attends one UW campus and then is admitted to another UW campus may count toward a bachelor's degree any number of credits transferred from the first UW campus to the second. Credits completed at all UW campuses are posted on the student's transcript as UW credit. Which campus offered the course can be determined by the department abbreviation; each campus has its own set of abbreviations, and none are shared. The campus at which the student was enrolled in a given quarter can be determined by the student's major code that quarter; again, each campus has its own set of abbreviations. Petitions Individual petitions for waivers of the credit requirements may be considered by the home campus (i.e., the degree-granting unit) registrar. However, the approval of such a waiver does not obligate the campus unit listing the desired course(s) to grant special consideration for course admission. Residence requirement Only credits taken at the campus granting the degree are considered residence credit. Credits transferred from another UW campus don't count as residence credit, and don't count toward the final-year residence requirement. Prerequisites and registration restrictions All registration restrictions (e.g., class standing, entry codes) still apply. Since similar courses have different prefixes and numbers at different campuses, prerequisites taken at the home campus might not be recognized by MyUW when you try to register cross campus. In that case, please contact the department offering the course. Majors and minors Double majoring A student may declare a major on only one campus; a student cannot declare a cross-campus double major or double degree. A student who wishes to complete two majors on two different campuses must first graduate with a major from one campus, then gain admission as a postbaccalaureate student to complete the second major at the other campus. When a student declared in a major at one campus is accepted in a major at another campus (note that this requires application for admission to the other campus, as well), the student's campus and major codes are changed to the new major. Second degrees A student who completes a bachelor's degree at one UW campus, and then pursues a second bachelor's degree at another UW campus as a postbaccalaureate student, must complete at least 225 total credits. Of these credits, at least 45 credits must be completed at the second campus. These 45 credits do not have to be the student's last 45 credits. Of the student's final 60 credits, however, 45 must be completed at the campus awarding the degree. Minors A student may complete the requirements of a minor offered by another UW campus. Cross-campus minors are declared via the Change of Major/Minor form, submitted to the student's home campus (not the campus offering the minor). Students should note that UW-B and UW-T minors, unlike Seattle-campus minors, may have admission requirements. Also, most or all the courses required by a minor will be available only at the campus offering the minor. Transfer issues Transferring from one UW campus to another A student enrolled at one UW campus who wants to pursue a degree program at another UW campus must apply to that campus for admission. If admitted, the student's campus and major code are changed. A student cannot be enrolled simultaneously at two UW campuses. Transfer credit vs. cross-campus credit A student who attends one UW campus and then is admitted to another UW campus may count toward a bachelor's degree any number of credits transferred from the first UW campus to the second. The 45-credit limit on cross-campus enrollment (see above) applies only to credits taken at one UW campus while enrolled at another campus. Counting transferred UW credit toward requirements Credits transferred from another UW campus may be counted toward requirements in the same manner as transfer credits from another college. That is, any adviser can determine how the transferred credits will count toward Areas of Knowledge and other General Education Requirements. The adviser should then send this information to the DARS office so that the courses can be properly tagged. Individual departments determine whether credit transferred from another UW campus can count toward major requirements. Transfer evaluations When a student is admitted to one of the UW campuses, the admissions office of that campus prepares an evaluation of any credits transferred from other colleges. Most transfer courses are recorded in the student data base with a UW Seattle equivalent or as departmental X credit, regardless of which campus has evaluated the credit. However, there are minor differences in transfer credit practices at the different campuses. Therefore, matriculating at a new campus results in a reevaluation of the credit by the Admissions Office of that campus. Returning to the original campus A student who is enrolled at one UW campus, then transfers to another, then decides to return to the original campus, must file a Returning Student Re-enrollment Application. The student's campus and major code will be changed back to the original campus. If a student earns a degree before returning to the original campus, s/he must instead apply for admission as a postbaccalaureate student. Academic drop and reinstatement A student who has been dropped for low grades from one UW campus may apply for admission to another UW campus. If this is the case, students should be in touch with the campus they are applying to for more information about the process of application and reinstatement. Administrative details The home campus is responsible for administrative and disciplinary issues. Hardship withdrawal petitions for all courses will be reviewed by the student's home campus. Student activity fees are credited to the student's home campus. Students are eligible for student activity fee-supported services only at their home campus. Students cross-campus enrolling at Seattle are eligible to purchase a U-PASS. Only Seattle-campus students are eligible to participate in intercollegiate athletics. Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Frequently Asked Questions View our FAQ page to learn about credits, grades and more. University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA