Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Inside Iowa State for faculty and staff Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Submit News Announcements Archives Inside Update Inside Iowa State Faculty Senate Updates P&S Council Updates Regents Updates Calendar Employee Resources About Us Announcements Help yourself cope following mass shootings May 27, 2022 David Brown, behavioral health state specialist with Extension and Outreach, shares tips from the American Psychological Association for coping with our reactions -- anger, shock, anxiety, grief -- to news coverage of mass shootings. Brown also shares contact information for Extension's Iowa Concern Hotline and the national Disaster Distress Helpline. EH&S 50th anniversary open house is June 10 May 26, 2022 Environmental health & safety is hosting a carnival-themed open house at its facility Friday, June 10 (1-3 p.m.) to celebrate its 50th anniversary. The campus community is invited to enjoy carnival games, prizes, an EH&S pop-up museum and tours of the Regulated Materials Facility. Beverages and snacks, including ISU Creamery ice cream, will be served. COVID-19: By the numbers May 26, 2022 For the week that ended May 22, the positive rate for COVID-19 tests completed at the Thielen Student Health Center was 30% (3 of 10 tests completed), up from 23.9% a week earlier. Testing reflects both symptomatic students and student-athletes following NCAA testing protocols. The vaccination rate among Story County residents at least 5 years old rose to 66.4% as of May 25. Iowa State is providing weekly updates on these and other public health benchmarks on its COVID-19: By the numbers website. May 30 is university holiday May 25, 2022 University offices are closed and classes will not meet Monday, May 30, in observance of the national Memorial Day holiday. Ames Lab innovation is focus of ISU's state fair exhibit May 25, 2022 Iowa State will return to the Iowa State Fair Aug. 11-21, with a focus on showcasing 75 years of innovation at the Ames Laboratory, the U.S. Department of Energy's only national research laboratory on a university campus. In June, the office of university marketing will begin recruiting staff and faculty volunteers to roll athletics posters and hand out dry tattoos and complimentary bags. For the first time, in response to volunteers' feedback, the 11-hour day will be divided into three volunteer shifts: 8:45 a.m.-1 p.m.; 12:45-4:30 p.m. and 4:15-8 p.m. Sign-up instructions will be shared soon. Flags temporarily removed from central campus pole May 25, 2022 The American and state of Iowa flags that fly over central campus have been temporarily removed until the aging flag pole can be replaced. A recent inspection discovered structural concerns in the top section of the 80-foot pole, which has withstood numerous wind storms and a derecho. Facilities planning and management staff are working on estimates, including cost and time needed to complete the project. The best estimate is that the current flag pole was installed in the mid-1970s. The university will have flags on display May 30 for the Memorial Day holiday at the Memorial Union east entrance driveway. Roundtable assists employees who supervise volunteers May 25, 2022 The office of risk management will host a volunteer engagement professionals roundtable Thursday, June 9 (1-2 p.m., via Zoom). The group will meet quarterly to discuss best practices for working with ISU volunteers. Employees who manage or supervise volunteers are encouraged to attend. Register online by June 7. Questions may be directed to youth and volunteer programs coordinator Beeta Siwik, 515-357-4506. WorkFlex application window opens June 6 May 25, 2022 The next application window for staff seeking a flexible work arrangement through the WorkFlex program opens Monday, June 6. Submissions for WorkFlex plans beginning this fall are due by July 1. Managers will have until July 29 to review submissions. New arrangements for the fall will be effective starting Aug. 22, the first day of the semester, and can be up to one year long (depending on the college or department). Staff with a WorkFlex agreement already approved to extend beyond the summer semester don't have to reapply until their agreement expires. WorkFlex gives staff the flexibility to rethink when, where and how they work, as long as their preferred alternatives fit with the university's mission and their job duties. The program options include requesting up to three days a week of remote work. A knowledge base article in the human resources section of the ISU Service Portal explains how to submit a Workflex request. For more information and resources, see the WorkFlex website. COACHE faculty survey data available online May 24, 2022 Results from the 2021 Collaborative on Academic Careers in Higher Education (COACHE) survey are available on the office of the senior vice president and provost website. Data include faculty satisfaction in a variety of areas, including: Teaching, research and service responsibilities Resources and support Collaboration, interdisciplinary work and mentoring Promotion and tenure Leadership and governance More than 900 ISU faculty completed the survey in spring 2021 (56% of eligible faculty). Results are compared with both a small panel of peers and with the entire COACHE consortium of 250 institutions. ISU's COACHE Action Team will work to create and implement initiatives responsive to the survey results during the 2022-23 academic year, including an open forum for faculty. Creamery adds ice cream sandwiches May 23, 2022 Partnering with Des Moines-based Iowa Cookie Co, the ISU Creamery now offers three varieties of ice cream sandwiches, called "grabbers." All of the sandwiches feature the creamery's Two Swans (vanilla) ice cream paired with chocolate chip, double chocolate or almond sugar cookies. Grabbers sell for $6.50 in limited supplies at the creamery's retail store, 2955 Food Sciences Building. Extension, Iowa Public Radio collaborate on gardening podcast May 20, 2022 ISU Extension and Outreach and Iowa Public Radio have launched a podcast series, "Garden Variety," that will cover topics of interest to Midwestern gardeners including horticulture, forestry, entomology and more. IPR host Charity Nebbe will host experts, including extension specialists, sharing answers to common gardening questions. College Creek cleanup is June 18 May 19, 2022 In recognition of National Rivers Month, small groups of volunteers will walk along designated sections of the College Creek bank on campus and pick up trash on Saturday, June 18 (10 a.m.-2 p.m.). No time commitment is required, and all help is appreciated. Registration is requested to ensure supply quantities. Volunteers should dress for the weather and wear closed-toe shoes. Supplies (bug repellent, sunscreen, gloves, bags and trash grabbers) are provided; volunteers also are welcome to bring their own. Refreshments also will be provided. Check-in begins at 9:30 a.m. in the Forker Building parking lot. New name: Military-Affiliated Student Center May 18, 2022 The Veterans Center will be called the Military-Affiliated Student Center, effective July 1. The new name highlights the department's focus on serving all military-affiliated students on campus, and is more inclusive for the reservists, National Guard, active duty, ROTC and family members of service members the center serves. The center also has a new home, 5600 Memorial Union. Extension retirement workshop free for ISU employees May 16, 2022 An ISU Extension and Outreach workshop on making retirement funds last a lifetime, free to ISU employees, will be held June 16 and 23 (6:30-8:30 p.m., 4-H Extension Building). "Writing Your Retirement Paycheck" provides information and resources for people retiring within the next 10 years. Barb Wollan, Human Sciences extension specialist and workshop leader, will cover topics that include inflation, health care costs, Social Security, required minimum distributions, income tax and more. The usual fee for the workshop is $25 per person or couple, but ISU employees who register with their university email address can use the coupon code "ISUSTAFF" to cover the cost, thanks in part to a grant from the FINRA Investor Education Foundation through a partnership with United Way Worldwide. This is the last time the FINRA funding will be available for ISU employees. The April session was sold out, and the workshop is being offered again so it is available to those who were turned away. Register online by June 14. Contact Wollan by email or by phone at 515-832-9597 with any questions. Paid mentors needed for 4-H Career Pathways Academy May 16, 2022 Iowa 4-H Youth Development Program seeks qualified candidates for up to 10 part-time 4-H K-12 Youth Outreach AmeriCorps members who will serve as mentors for youth participating in the Career Pathways Academy. Work location is negotiable. The Career Pathways Academy is a 4-H 12-month immersive program for Iowa youth in grades 8-11 that provides pathways to college and career preparedness. Send applications (cover letter and resume) to Cayla Taylor. Student affairs units are moving to new MU offices May 11, 2022 A 15-month renovation project on floors four through six at the Memorial Union is wrapping up, and six student affairs offices have set dates they anticipate being ready for walk-in traffic: Unit Office suite Opening date Center for LGBTQIA+ Student Success 4600 May 16 Veterans Student Center 5600 May 19 International Students and Scholars 4530 May 24 NCORE-ISCORE 6571 June 8 ISU Lectures Program 6558 June 13 Student Legal Services 6660 June 23 Memorial Day ceremony honors deceased university retirees May 11, 2022 The ISU Retirees Association will host an online Memorial Day ceremony Monday, May 30 (9 a.m. CST, via Zoom). The event honors all ISU retirees and spouses or partners who have died since the previous Memorial Day ceremony. The names of deceased individuals will be read, and then family and friends will have an opportunity to say a few words. A tribute form can be completed online through June 3; the preferred deadline for inclusion in the ceremony is May 25. ← View Archive Inside headlines Summer projects on (or near) your corner 'Roll out the cardinal carpet,' as orientation returns in full Welcome Senior VP Cain will retire this fall Leaders take strategic plans, building proposal to regents next week Support grows for responding to student well-being needs Training available as New Quizzes set to launch in Canvas Changes shared for COVID-19 data and information Receptions and open houses Receptions Dennis Peterson, Celebration of Life, May 29 View All › Retirements and farewells Retirements Lynn Laws, May 31 View All › Honors and awards 2022 Learning Community Awards Chad Olson Greg Tylka Rodney Fox View All › Arts and events Anniversary flavor A new ice cream choice at the ISU Creamery, "Materials Masterpiece," commemorates Ames Laboratory's 75th anniversary. Return to in-person events brings summer visitors Students, faculty and staff again will share campus this summer with visitors attending camps, conferences, competitions and other gatherings. Here's a list of who's coming. Around campus Ames Lab celebrates 75 years of materials and energy solutions Culturally tailored dietary education proves promising Taxes can tip the scale for startups near state lines Inside tools Print this edition RSS | Twitter Strategic Relations and Communications Inside Iowa State 2420 Lincoln Way Suite 201 Ames, Iowa 50014-8340 inside@iastate.edu 515-294-7958 phone @InsideIowaState Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...