Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Arts and Sciences Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies B110 Padelford Hall 206-543-6900 Website Faculty Website gwss@uw.edu The mission of Gender, Women and Sexuality Studies is to analyze and change society from the unique perspective of unequal gender relations in a world where violence and discrimination is still commonplace. In GWSS, students learn about the racialized and global dimensions of contemporary sexual discourses, practices, and histories and question the mechanisms by which non-normative sexual desire has been segregated and disciplined. GWSS generates knowledge through frameworks that are interdisciplinary, transnational, decolonial and intersectional. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies Program of Study: Minor: Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies Minor in Gender, Women, Sexuality Graduate Programs Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Feminist Studies) Doctor Of Philosophy (Feminist Studies) Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Feminist Studies Graduate Certificate In Feminist Studies Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Sexuality And Queer Studies Graduate Certificate In Sexuality And Queer Studies Program of Study: Master Of Arts (Feminist Studies) Master Of Arts (Feminist Studies) Undergraduate Programs Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies B110S Padelford Hall 206-543-6902 gwssadvs@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies Program Overview Our undergraduate major provides a highly flexible and individualized approach while creating a learning community. We emphasize integrative courses that explore relationships among phenomena such as gender, race/ethnicity, and social class. Required courses focus on feminist theorizing of race/ethnicity and psychobiology of women, and synthesize these areas of academic inquiry through internships and a capstone class. The capstone culminates in a portfolio tracing the student’s path toward achieving the department’s learning goals. With over 2,000 students enrolled each year, Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies reaches far beyond our department into the entire University. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: GWSS 200, and any of the following: GWSS 206, GWSS 257, GWSS 283, GWSS 290. Admission Requirements Any student with a cumulative GPA of at least 2.00 can declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies Credential Overview Gender, Women and Sexuality Studies provides a window into discussions about globalization, violence, commerce, reproductive rights, art, music and many other issues. Students gain broad exposure to interdisciplinary methods and activist strategies, and are trained to analyze inequities in society and work toward social justice and change. Completion Requirements Minimum 58 credits GWSS 200 or equivalent (5 credits) GWSS 302 (5 credits) One upper-division course focusing on transnational perspective. See adviser for list of eligible courses. (5 credits) GWSS 497 (fieldwork) (minimum 3 credits) One course in at least three of the four following overlapping focus points: Global Identity Formations; Decolonizing Empire; Feminist Knowledge Production and Radical Critique; Building Social, Cultural, and Political Movements for Change. See adviser for list of courses in each category (15 credits) Additional gender, women, and sexuality studies upper-division credits. 10 credits must be graded. Maximum 10 credits from variable credit courses (GWSS 495, GWSS 496, GWSS 497, GWSS 499) can be applied toward this requirement. (20 credits) Senior capstone, GWSS 494 (5 credits) Minimum 20 credits applied toward the major must be completed in residence through the UW. Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the major. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies Program Overview A minor in Gender, Women and Sexuality Studies (GWSS) provides a window into discussions about globalization, violence, commerce, reproductive rights, art, music and many other issues. GWSS minors gain exposure to the interdisciplinary methods and activist strategies, and training that allows students to analyze inequities in society and work toward social justice and change. By adding the GWSS minor to a course of study at UW, students are able to explore the intersections between their work in their major department and GWSS. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Gender, Women, Sexuality Minor in Gender, Women, Sexuality Credential Overview A minor in Gender, Women and Sexuality Studies (GWSS) provides a window into discussions about globalization, violence, commerce, reproductive rights, art, music and many other issues. GWSS minors gain exposure to the interdisciplinary methods and activist strategies, and training that allows students to analyze inequities in society and work toward social justice and change. By adding the GWSS minor to a course of study at UW, students are able to explore the intersections between their work in their major department and GWSS. Completion Requirements 30 credits GWSS 200 or equivalent; and one additional GWSS 200-level course (10 credits) GWSS 302 (5 credits) Additional upper-division (300-400 level) credits in gender, women, and sexuality studies. Minimum 10 credits must be graded. Maximum 5 credits from variable credit courses (GWSS 495, GWSS 496, GWSS 497, and GWSS 499) may be applied toward this requirement. (15 credits) Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: A Bachelor of Arts in gender, women, and sexuality studies helps students prepare for careers in human, health, legal, or civil service, as well as in the private sector. Some gender, women, and sexuality studies graduates develop careers that focus directly or indirectly on women and women's issues. Many others move into careers that entail understanding the dynamics of gender, race, class, and sexuality. Such positions exist in politics, business, education, government, medicine, and the arts. Recent graduates of gender, women, and sexuality studies have found employment in public agencies, community services, health services, private businesses, and legal firms. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: Students intern in local agencies or businesses to develop skills in an area of specialization appropriate to their area of interest. For lists of these opportunities, see adviser. Department Scholarships: None offered. Student Organizations/Associations: Students can join the National Women's Studies Association (NWSA). Graduate Programs Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Feminist Studies) Program Overview The department offers graduate training leading to the PhD in interdisciplinary women studies as well as in a chosen discipline. A master's degree may be awarded to students in the doctoral program, but the department does not offer a terminal master's degree. The core faculty represent the following disciplines: anthropology, American Indian studies, cultural studies, economics and development, English, history, international studies, psychology, queer/sexuality studies, and sociology. Although students work primarily with a core faculty member in Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies, they have the opportunity to study with more than 90 adjunct faculty members from a wide range of disciplines. This program of study leads to the following credential: Doctor Of Philosophy (Feminist Studies) Admission Requirements Please visit this program's Graduate Admissions page for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Feminist Studies) Completion Requirements 90 total credits Required Core Courses (20 credits): GWSS 501. GWSS 502, GWSS 503, GWSS 504 Area of Specialization (20 credits): GWSS 400 level or above in area of concentration. Electives (20 credits): Approved elective courses 400 level or above in area of concentration. Doctoral Dissertation (30 credits): GWSS 800 Doctoral Dissertation Back to Top Additional Information Financial Aid: A limited number of teaching and research assistantships are offered to PhD students. Back to Top Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Feminist Studies This program of study leads to the following credential: Graduate Certificate In Feminist Studies Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Graduate Certificate In Feminist Studies Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Sexuality And Queer Studies This program of study leads to the following credential: Graduate Certificate In Sexuality And Queer Studies Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Graduate Certificate In Sexuality And Queer Studies Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Arts (Feminist Studies) Program Overview This degree program is only available to students already in the Doctor of Philosophy (Feminist Studies) program. This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Arts (Feminist Studies) Admission Requirements Admission to this program not available, the degree is only available to students in the Doctor of Philosophy (Feminist Studies) program. Master Of Arts (Feminist Studies) Completion Requirements 54 credits total Required Core Courses (20 credits): GWSS 501, GWSS 502, GWSS 503, GWSS 504 Thesis or Practicum (9 credits): GWSS 700 (9 credits) or GWSS 701 (9 credits) Area of Specialization (10 credits): GWSS 400 level or above Elective Courses (15 credits): 400 or 500 level courses in area of concentration Back to Top Additional Information Financial Aid: A limited number of teaching and research assistantships are offered to PhD students. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA