Oops! You don't have Javascript enabled. Some features on this site might not work correctly. Kennesaw State University Search KSU MyKSU A-Z Index Directories Campus Maps Apply Visit Give Search Menu About KSU Academics Admissions Athletics Campus Life Research Global About Academics Admissions Athletics Campus Life Research Global Apply Visit Give Search KSU Kennesaw State baseball wins conference title Kennesaw State senior earns spot in exclusive chemistry research program Hooty Hoo! External scholarships available year-round! Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Business & Industry Community & Visitors Join Owl Nation This Fall There’s still time to apply and start classes this fall at Kennesaw State. Undergraduate freshmen and transfer freshmen have until June 1 to apply, while transfer students have until June 15. Graduate program deadlines vary, but many programs are accepting fall applications until July 1. Get ready for a great fall here at KSU! Apply for Fall 2022 News+ More News Kennesaw State Marketing Professor to Attend Exclusive Faculty Fellowship in Israel New grant supports Kennesaw State effort to expand course-based undergraduate research Kennesaw State student selected for highly competitive State Department fellowship COVID-19 Info and Resources Events+More Events Doing Business with KSU Our goal is to develop relationships with a diverse pool of companies that deliver quality, service, and value that benefit both KSU and the community. Read More > Global Affairs The Division of Global Affairs is a multi-departmental organization that spearheads programs designed to connect KSU students to the world, and vice versa. Read More > Diversity & Inclusion/Presidential Task Force on Race A welcoming, diverse, and inclusive climate is critical to attaining KSU’s research, scholarship, teaching, and engagement goals. Read More > Online Learning Designed and taught by KSU faculty, distance learning at KSU offers high quality degree options with distance learning convenience and flexibility. Read More > Community Engagement Community Engagement connects university resources with those of the public and private sectors to enrich scholarship, research, and contribute to the public good. Read More > Veterans KSU strives to be one of the nation’s top military friendly schools by offering a wide range of veterans-focused educational and support services. Read More > University Contact Info Kennesaw Campus 1000 Chastain Road Kennesaw, GA 30144 Marietta Campus 1100 South Marietta Pkwy Marietta, GA 30060 Phone 470-KSU-INFO (470-578-4636) kennesaw.edu/info Information For Current Students Future Students Faculty & Staff Community & Visitors Alumni & Friends Business & Industry Our Initiatives Global Affairs Diversity & Inclusion Community Engagement Sustainability Online Learning Related Links Libraries Arts, Culture and Museums Job Opportunities Degrees, Majors & Programs Financial Aid Registrar Housing Privacy Statement / Accreditation / Advisories / Reporting Hotline / Open Records / Human Trafficking Notice / Feedback / Text Only © 2022 Kennesaw State University. All Rights Reserved. ©