Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Stop Video Stop Video Admissions and Aid Our Pack is made up of innovative, purposeful thinkers and doers from all over the world — and we’re always looking for more members. If you want to drive the future with us, explore how to apply to NC State and learn more about financial support. 36,000 Students We’re the largest public university in North Carolina — and there’s a place for you here. Explore undergrad admissions facts Find Your Pathway Every type of learner can find a place at NC State. No matter what path you’re taking toward a degree, we can help you navigate and complete it — and step into a bright future. Explore how to get started on your journey. Undergraduate Start your future with us. Graduate Take the next step in your academic journey here. International Join students from more than 120 countries in the most diverse student body in North Carolina. Online Find the flexibility you need to pursue the degree you want. Financial Aid NC State is consistently recognized as one of the best values in higher education — and a worthwhile investment in the future. Every student who wants access to a high-quality education should be able to get it. Navigating financial aid options can be daunting, so we’re committed to helping our students find the best ways to fund their future. We connect students and families with opportunities for scholarships, grants, loans or student employment, as well as financial planning resources. Learn more about financial aid #2 Best Public College in N.C. for Your Money According to Money magazine, we’re one of the best values out there. 60% Receive Financial Aid More than half of our beginning full-time undergraduates received grant or scholarship aid in 2020-21. #7 Best Value Among U.S. Public Universities U.S. News and World Report ranked us among the best places in the nation to invest in education. Discover NC State Majors and Careers Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. take the next step Apply Ready to start your journey with us? Find out what what you need to begin your application to NC State. Join the Pack Visit Want to see more of the campus you’ll call home? We offer in-depth virtual tours, or you can schedule an in-person visit. Come explore Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.