Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Simmons About Simmons About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Academics Academics Applied Physiology and Sports Management Dispute Resolution Counseling Education Policy and Leadership Graduate Liberal Studies Ph.D. Teacher Education Programs & Degrees Fall 2021 Graduate Student Orientation Our Faculty Our Faculty Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Research Research Research Projects Archive 2020-21: Research Snapshot Research Resources Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) Integrative Physiology Laboratory CORE Locomotor Performance Laboratory Research in Mathematics Education Center for VR Learning Innovation Youth Sports Impact Partnership Faculty Research Publications and Presentations Dallas Noyce: A Community-Focused Mathematics Teacher Pipeline Technology and Education Cluster Community Engagement Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute College Access Programs The Budd Center: Involving Communities in Education Institute for Leadership Impact Center for Family Counseling Project Connect West Dallas STEM-Focused School Alumni ☰ Dallas Noyce: A Community-Focused Mathematics Teacher Pipeline SMU Simmons: Ranked among the top 12 private graduate schools of education nationally and among the top 3 public & private schools in Texas. Simmons Research Dallas Noyce @ SMU The Dallas Noyce Scholars Program The Dallas Noyce Scholars Program is a partnership between SMU, the Dallas College School of Education, and the Dallas Independent School District (Dallas ISD) to create a community-focused pathway for mathematics teacher preparation in the Dallas community. The intent of this program is to allow qualified students with a sincere desire to teach in high-need schools to benefit from an exceptional learning opportunity at SMU with $30,000 in scholarship funding from the National Science Foundation, and possible additional scholarship funding from SMU. As a part of this program, Noyce Scholars will: Complete an Associates degree at one of the Dallas College campuses Transfer to SMU for junior and senior years, with up to $86,000 in scholarships Complete a double major at SMU in both Educational Studies and Mathematics Be certified to teach math at the secondary level (middle or high school) Be placed in a high-need Dallas-area school for a minimum of 4 years The Dallas Noyce Scholars Program is also open to existing four-year SMU students who wish to pursue a career in math education in high-need schools. Program Stages Step 1: Free Summer Courses at Dallas College Students attending a Dallas College campus, who have earned between 15-30 credits, and who are interested in a math education career, will be able to apply for a special 7 credit hour summer session at Dallas College at no cost. The session will feature a special morning section of “MATH 2413: Calculus I” that incorporates evidence-based teaching methods such as inquiry-based learning a special afternoon section of “EDUC 1301: Introduction to the Teaching Profession” that includes an emphasis on mathematics education It will also include opportunities for extra calculus practice, discussion of teaching methods, and community building activities. Interested applicants must have completed Pre-Calculus at their Dallas College campus by the beginning of summer session to be eligible Step 2: Follow a Transfer Pathway Students who successfully complete the summer session and decide to pursue a math education degree will participate in a customized Dallas Noyce Mathematics Education Pathway that guides them through their remaining courses at Dallas College in preparation for transfer to SMU. Students will have access to both Dallas College School of Education and SMU advising resources, to ensure that as many courses will transfer smoothly to SMU as possible. During this time, summer experience participants, local educators, faculty and other interested SMU students will be invited to community-building events including guest speakers Step 3: Apply to Transfer to SMU As they approach completion of their associates degree at Dallas College, students will apply to transfer to SMU . This will include applying for both SMU academic scholarships (50% tuition reduction from SMU for students with at least a 3.7 GPA) and the award available through the Noyce Scholars Program (an additional $30,000 from the NSF). Students are selected for the Noyce Scholars Award based on their commitment to a teaching career and their desire to teach math in a high-need school. The funding sources available to transfer students are expected to cover a significant portion of students’ cost to complete their degree at SMU. Important Note: students may apply to the Dallas Noyce Scholars Program at SMU even if they did not participate in the summer calculus course, as long as they have completed sufficient coursework (see an advisor for more details). Step 4: Double major in Educational Studies and Mathematics Once at SMU, students will continue taking courses toward their Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics and their Bachelor of Science in Educational Studies. The dual degree program allows certain classes to count toward both degrees, and includes courses focused on content and pedagogy organized around math content strands. In addition to financial support for their education at SMU, Dallas Noyce Scholars will benefit from: Community-focused coursework enabling them to connect with the Dallas area Field experiences in the communities in which they will teach after graduation Training in working with students for whom English is not their first language Cohort mentoring and community building with other students in the program Step 5: Placement in a Dallas-Area Middle or High School After completing the dual degrees in Educational Studies and Math, SMU Noyce Scholars will work as student teachers or teacher interns in West Dallas schools. Teacher interns will serve as the teacher of record under the supervision of SMU faculty. After they complete their student teaching or internships, Noyce Scholars will be formally certified to teach in a Texas public school, and the program will work to provide placement options within Dallas ISD. Ideally, we will place program graduates in the newly announced West Dallas STEM School, or Pinkston high school, the high school into which the WDSS feeds. What’s Next? Dallas College students with between 15-30 credit hours can apply for the 2021 Summer Calculus course now. Full consideration will be given to applications received by Friday, April 12. Dallas College or SMU students with between 45-60 credit hours, who will have completed Calculus III by the Fall of 2021, should apply to SMU for the Fall 2021 semester. The deadline for scholarship consideration is April 1. For more information about the SMU Noyce Program or related activities contact Dr. Scott Norris or Dr. Annie Wilhelm at SMU, or Dr. Jason Treadway, our partner at Dallas College and director of the Dallas College STEM Institute. Dallas Noyce @ SMU Summer Program Application Instructor Recommendations SMU Mathematics SMU Teaching and Learning Contact Simmons Contact Us 214-768-7587 sehd@smu.edu Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Southern Methodist University 3101 University Boulevard Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter