Skip to main content search search submit button ARL logo link to main site homepage Applied Research Laboratories LTTS Weather Visiting Emergency Home Careers Recruiting Events Students Education Texas Acoustics Labs Advanced Technology Environmental Sciences Signal & Information Sciences Space & Geophysics Centers Content Understanding Quantum Research About Facilities Contact Us News & Press Resources Visiting ARL:UT Welcome to ARL:UT Main Content Search box search search submit button Welcome to Applied Research Laboratories icon of a globe World Class Research The mission of ARL:UT is to strengthen the national security and global progress of the United States through sponsored research in the fields of acoustics, electromagnetics, and information sciences. ARL:UT is a Department of Defense University-Affiliated Research Center (UARC). We are the largest research unit of the university, and have been innovating for over 75 years. icon of a stethoscope World Class Benefits ARL:UT employees enjoy exceptional benefits including paid medical, dental, and vision insurance, as well as paid vacation and sick leave, holidays, educational benefits, a wellness program, and one of the best pension and retirement plans available anywhere. We embrace stability and wellness to provide our staff a productive and balanced lifestyle. See UT Benefits for details. icon of a runner Start your career at ARL:UT If you're looking for an exciting career with excellent benefits and a stable and casual working environment with opportunities to grow, please review our current positions. Full-time employees receive competitive salaries and participate in UT’s exceptional benefits program. You will find it rewarding to know your work makes a difference on a national and global scale. News section No content area icon of a person reading a book In the News—Read more John Huckabay named Distinguished Civilian by Naval Submarine League. Read article. Pushing Scientific Software to New Heights. Read article icon for an external link Listening to Seagrass. Read article icon for an external link No content area Applied Research Laboratories homepage Make a difference in your world. Discover ours. Research Areas Advanced Technology Environmental Sciences Signal & Information Sciences Space & Geophysics Career Opportunities ARL:UT Jobs Campus Recruiting ARL:UT Student Jobs Jobs at UT Accessibility & Inclusion Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Emergency Information © Applied Research Laboratories, The University of Texas at Austin, Site Last modified: View Sitemap For full functionality of this site, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are the instructions for how to enable JavaScript in your web browser (portal).