By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About Community Engagement Partners More from this Section Request Meeting Space Contact Us Who We Are Programs and Resources Community Engagement Partners Our work counts on strong collaborators. The Office of Community Engagement works with both on- and off-campus partners. Our partners include, but are not limited to: Community Partners Coalition of Museum and Art Centers The Coalition of Museum and Art Centers (CMAC) at Syracuse University was founded in 2005 to unify a portfolio of visual art centers and exhibition venues on campus and in New York City. By supporting a diverse range of high quality programs in the arts, CMAC endeavors to place creative expression at the forefront of the University’s mission to prepare students to learn, lead and create through rigorous academic programs, diverse experiential learning and engagement with global research. Community Folk Art Center The Community Folk Art Center (CFAC) is a vibrant cultural and artistic hub committed to the promotion and development of artists of the African Diaspora. A unit of the Department of African American Studies in the College of Arts and Sciences, CFAC features such public programming as exhibitions, film screenings, gallery talks, workshops and courses in the studio arts, including dance and ceramics. Diversity and Inclusion Student-Athlete Board The Diversity and Inclusion Student-Athlete Board (DISAB) is a force for change that inspires and provides a forum for student-athletes to speak up for what they believe and how they feel. DISAB fosters better communication between student-athletes, their teammates, the athletic administration and Syracuse University as a whole. DISAB will use this platform to help the greater Syracuse community and assist with diversity and inclusion efforts to enhance the student-athlete experience and foster a culture of mutual respect. Learn more about DISAB's project, "44 Hours of Change," supported by the Office of Community Engagement: " Syracuse Orange student athletes come together to affect meaningful change ." FOCUS Greater Syracuse “Forging Our Community’s United Strength,” FOCUS Greater Syracuse is a communitywide visioning program created with the goal of making Syracuse a better place to live and work. Started by a group of interested residents, the program, loosely modeled after several visioning projects around the country, came out of the desire to determine a course of action and growth for Syracuse. FOCUS Greater Syracuse is a not-for-profit organization. The Image Initiative The Image Initiative Inc. aims to enlighten, engage and empower young women of color in Syracuse. Students, faculty and staff can volunteer with the program. La Casita A program of the College of Arts and Sciences, La Casita advances an educational and cultural agenda of civic engagement through research, cultural heritage preservation, media and the arts, bridging the Hispanic communities of Syracuse University and Central New York. New York State Mentoring Program Currently facilitated on campus as a collaboration with Syracuse University Athletics, the New York State Mentoring Program creates supportive mentor relationships for select students, identified by their own teachers and NYS Mentoring Site Coordinators. This unique program takes place in a school-based setting, one-to-one between the mentor and mentee, with a school coordinator present who is selected by the principal. The program provides background checks and training for volunteer mentors and mentees. Point of Contact Point of Contact/Punto de Contacto is a New York-based arts organization in residence at Syracuse University that creates opportunities for the exploration of diversity and the exchange of ideas through the verbal and visual arts. Working with the Central New York communities, as well as statewide and international institutions and individuals, Point of Contact is a collaborative, cross-disciplinary forum where artists, writers, scholars and students actively engage in the production of publications, art exhibitions and events to enrich the cultural mix of our society. South Side Innovation Center The South Side Innovation Center (SSIC) is a community-based microenterprise incubator operated by the Whitman School of Management. The SSIC provides office space and equipment to foster the creation of new ventures and help existing businesses grow. The Stand The Stand is an online community newspaper that serves as the voice of Syracuse's South Side community and is written for and by South Side residents. The paper aims to start an online community conversation by inviting residents of the South Side to share their stories. The Stand brainchild of the South Side Newspaper Project, a collaboration of the South Side Community Coalition, Syracuse University and a number of dedicated South Side community residents. Syracuse City School District CTE Programs The mission of the Career & Technical Education (CTE) programs is to empower all students through innovative partnerships that build technical, academic, and professional leadership skills for college and career success. Students have the opportunity to obtain required, relevant industry-recognized certification for their desired career path. Local professionals provide students with hands-on instruction and experiences, and internships and mentorship programs provide students the opportunity to earn college credits. Syracuse Stage Syracuse Stage is Central New York’s premier professional theater. Syracuse Stage also maintains a vital educational outreach program that annually serves over 30,000 students from 24 counties. In addition to a solid core of subscribers and supporters, assistance from government, foundations, corporations and Syracuse University helps to ensure the continued role of Syracuse Stage as a valued cultural resource for the community. WCNY The Office of Community Engagement partners with WCNY, Central New York’s member-supported public media offering, to record and broadcast Thursday Morning Roundtable over the radio and online. Westcott Street Cultural Fair The Westcott Street Cultural Fair is an annual celebration of the diversity and uniqueness of the Westcott neighborhood through its culture, arts, food, organizations and activities for families and students. Syracuse University students are invaluable volunteers for this event. WISE—Women Igniting the Spirit of Entrepreneurship WISE is an initiative to train and inspire women interested in launching or growing a business venture. WISE was launched in 2003 by the Falcone Center for Entrepreneurship—a program of the Whitman School of Management. WISE's goal is to create a thriving community of women entrepreneurs through two initiatives: the one-day WISE Symposium and the year-round WISE Women’s Business Center. Writing Our Lives Writing Our Lives provides Syracuse-area youth with creative opportunities to write, create, produce and share their stories. The program takes multiple formats, including after-school writing programs, summer writing institutes, book clubs, digital composing programs, theatrical performances and an annual youth writing conference. Professor Marcelle Haddix also engages faculty and staff from across the School of Education and Syracuse University to present and facilitate workshops, as well as both undergraduate and graduate students. Campus Partners Syracuse University Student-Athlete Engagement The Student-Athlete Engagement Office works with the Office of Athletic Compliance to deliver engaging opportunities for student-athletes as they continue to make a growing positive impact in our community. Syracuse University Greek Life Students involved with Greek associations can work with the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Affairs to help plan volunteer and philanthropic events and opportunities. Syracuse University Hendricks Chapel—Office of Engagement Programs The Office of Engagement Programs offers a variety of volunteer service programs for students. Syracuse University Maxwell School’s Program in Citizenship and Civic Engagement Citizenship and Civic Engagement, an undergraduate B.A. major offered by the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs, is a nationally unique interdisciplinary learning experience that enables students to contribute to the public good while preparing for careers in the public, private and nonprofit sectors. Syracuse University Office of Student Activities The Office of Student Activities strives to provide opportunities for students to discover and engage their strengths, talents and passions through a fun and diverse environment. The office empowers students to put their learning into action on campus and in the community. Syracuse University's Photography and Literacy Project The Photography and Literacy Project is an innovative program positioned under Syracuse University’s Coalition of Museum and Art Centers that brings the University's students into Syracuse City Schools to develop projects involving photography, video, audio recording and writing. Faculty and students are encouraged to collaborate. Syracuse University Risk Management Department Syracuse University's Risk Management Services addresses the University’s liability, financial, operational, compliance and reputational risks in support of the University’s student-focused vision and strategic planning. Syracuse University School of Education—Field Placements and Internships From student teaching, to shadowing professionals, to practicum work, all School of Education students have an opportunity to get firsthand experience in the field to better prepare for their careers. The field experiences are bolstered by strong working relationships with area schools, universities, health professionals, community organizations and more. Syracuse University's Shaw Center—Academic Community Engagement The Shaw Center supports the University’s mission to engage students and faculty by providing institutional leadership for experiential learning through community engagement in order to enhance academic learning objectives, research and the student experience. Syracuse University Student Association Registered Student Organizations (RSO) may work with the Student Association to host community service programs and initiatives. There are also service-based RSOs on campus. Syracuse University's Student Living Department The Office of Off-Campus and Commuter Services fosters and supports student independence and community engagement for all Syracuse University students. Syracuse University Whitman School of Management—Community Engagement The Whitman School believes that active citizens are formed by giving back to the communities of the world, as well as the Syracuse campus and outlying neighborhoods. All Whitman students are required to perform community engaged work throughout their school careers. Related Pages Events Connect with the Office of Community Engagement by attending one of our sponsored events! Programs and Resources We offer a multitude of programs for students, faculty, staff and community members alike. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy