Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Academic Advising Center Main Navigation About Us Show Extended What We Do General Education General Grad Requirements Undeclared Academic Success Liberal Education Major and Minor Exploration Staff Faculty Development Certificate Faculty and Staff Training Videos Navigate Student App AAC Office Location Gordon Hall-123(formerly University Hall), 800 N State College Blvd, Fullerton, California 92831 Academic advising center hours Days Office Hours: Advising Hours: Monday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 3:30 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Tuesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Wednesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Thursday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Friday 8 am — 12 pm 8:30 am —11:30 am Phone : (657) 278-3606 Fax : (657) 278-7146 Contact Academic Advising Center Current Students Show Extended Freshmen Major Exploration Remediation Tutoring Services Undeclared Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop AAT/AST Assist.org GE breadth certification Seniors Graduation Requirements Applying for Graduation Graduation Specialists Mandatory Advising Workshops FAQs Continuing Students Undeclared Undeclared Students Show Extended Major Exploration Titan Major Exploration Program Exploring Majors Appointments Assessing Personal and Career Interests Exploring Careers Declare a Major Prospective Students Show Extended Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop Incomplete TDAs Returning Students Major Advising Re-enrollment Information Incoming First Time Freshman AP Scores and Transcripts Academic Success Show Extended IMPROVING GPA Repeats Grade Forgiveness Balanced Schedule Time Management Academic support resources University Learning Center English Department Writing Center CBE Tutoring Center OCSAMS CASECS Student Technology Services Academic Notice and Disqualification Academic Notice Academic Disqualification Fullerton Finish TitanNet Academic Planner Academic Notice and Disqualification Requirements Major Exploration GPA Calculator AAC Virtual Printable FERPA Release Form Faculty Development Certificate Thank you for visiting the Faculty Development Advising Certificate Program. We welcome all faculty, instructors and staff to these sessions, and our program is designed especially for faculty major advisors. This program is a cross-divisional partnership among the three leads for the Student Success Team core members: Dr. Liz Zavala-Acevez (Director of Career Services; career specialists); Dr. Catherine Ward (Executive Director of the Retention Cluster; assistant deans for Student Affairs); Dr. Elizabeth Boretz (Assistant Vice President for Student Success and Director of Academic Advising; graduation and retention specialists). Please sign up in advance of the session you plan to attend, especially if there will be a meal served. You will receive an e-mail reminder of your session one or two days prior to its date. Questions? Please contact Dr. Elizabeth Boretz, Assistant Vice President for Student Success and Director of Academic Advising at eboretz@fullerton.edu Faculty Development Career, Student Engagement and Academic Advising Certificate Series Session Number Date Time Topic 1 Wednesday, October 9 1:00-1:45 PM (LH-705) Snacks provided What do your graduation and retention specialists do to ease the faculty advisor workloadEvery college has a Student Success Center, and your graduation and retention specialists there are your experts for managing student issues related to graduation readiness, intervening when students struggle academically, or when your students have any needs that demand attention beyond the bounds of your everyday major advising role. Register for What do your graduation and retention specialists do. 2 Thursday, October 10 1:30-2:15 PM (LH-705) Snacks provided Grading Symbols: How to know when to use whichLearn the fine details that make significant impacts upon student status with regard to grades of “Incomplete,” “Withdraw (W),” “Withdraw Unauthorized (WU),” Register for Grading Systems. 3 Monday, October 14 11:30 AM - 12:15 PM (LH 705) Snacks provided TDA Exceptions and Corrections: Faculty have the powerFaculty major advisors and nobody else may determine when to make a course substitution within the major. Often, these substitutions make a meaningful difference in the student’s ability to complete their degree. Find out how this is done. Register for TDA Exceptions and Corrections. 4 Tuesday, October 22 1:00-1:45 PM (LH-705) Snacks provided What do your graduation and retention specialists do to ease the faculty advisor workload Every college has a Student Success Center, and your graduation and retention specialists there are your experts for managing student issues related to graduation readiness, intervening when students struggle academically, or when your students have any needs that demand attention beyond the bounds of your everyday major advising role. Register for What do your graduation and retention specialists do. 5 Monday, October 28 10:00-10:45 AM (LH-705) Snacks provided Preparing Future TeachersDid you know that CSUF prepares the most teacher candidates in the state? Join this session to learn about how you too can assist the hundreds of undergraduate future teachers at CSUF today! Register for Supporting Future Teachers on Nov. 7. Register for Preparing Future Teachers. 6 Tuesday, October 29 10:00-11:00 AM (LH-705) Snacks provided Partners in Student Achievement: How Assistant Deans for Student Affairs Support You and Your Students’ SuccessAssistant Deans for Student Affairs offer faculty, staff, and students valuable support which is a result of essential collaboration with your respective college, Student Success Teams, and departments across campus. Learn how Assistant Deans for Student Affairs design, organize, and execute programs and services that promote a sense of community, encourage student-development, and positively impact student success. Register for What Assistant Deans do. 7 Tuesday, October 29 11:30-12:15 PM (LH-705) Snacks provided What does the AAC do to ease the faculty advisor workloadLearn about the what, why and how of General Education advising in the Academic Advising Center. Discover the many ways the Academic Advising Center can support you as you advise your students, and how to promote your department to the many students the AAC supports. Register for What does the AAC do. 8 Monday, November 4 10:00-10:45 AM (LH-705) Snacks provided Extension and International Programs (EIP): Academic Disqualification and Open University Enrollment What are the specifics of undergraduate disqualification and what is the role of Open University Enrollment in this process? Also learn about the opportunities Open University Enrollment provides to other constituencies.Register for EIP Workshop . 9 Wednesday, November 6 3:00-3:45 PM (LH-705) Snacks provided TDA Exceptions and Corrections: Faculty have the powerFaculty major advisors and nobody else may determine when to make a course substitution within the major. Often, these substitutions make a meaningful difference in the student’s ability to complete their degree. Find out how this is done. Register for TDA Exceptions and Corrections. 10 Thursday, November 21 2:45-3:30 PM (LH-705) Snacks provided Grading Symbols: How to know when to use which Learn the fine details that make significant impacts upon student status with regard to grades of “Incomplete,” “Withdraw (W),” “Withdraw Unauthorized (WU),” “F” and “Incomplete (I).” We will also review the processes for grade changes and assigning Incompletes. Register for Grading Systems. 11 Wednesday, November 20 2:00-2:45 PM (LH-705) Snacks provided What does the AAC do to ease the faculty advisor workload Learn about the what, why and how of General Education advising in the Academic Advising Center. Discover the many ways the Academic Advising Center can support you as you advise your students, and how to promote your department to the many students the AAC supports. Register for What does the AAC do. 12 Wednesday, November 13 12:00-1:00 PM (LH-705) Lunch provided How to Partner with Your College Career Specialist Learn different ways that your College Career Specialist can provide you with support and information to help your students. Gain insight on all of the ways that you can partner with your College Career Specialist. Register for Partner with Career Specialist. 13 Wednesday, November 6 1:30-2:15 PM (LH-705) Snacks provided Partners in Student Achievement: How Assistant Deans for Student Affairs Support You and Your Students’ Success Assistant Deans for Student Affairs offer faculty, staff, and students valuable support which is a result of essential collaboration with your respective college, Student Success Teams, and departments across campus. Learn how Assistant Deans for Student Affairs design, organize, and execute programs and services that promote a sense of community, encourage student-development, and positively impact student success. Register for Partner in Student Achievement. 14 Tuesday, November 26 12:00-1:00 PM (LH-705) Lunch provided Less Time Proofing, More Time Teaching- Ready Made Career Assignments No time to proof or review? No problem. Learn which tech tools the Career Center offers and how students are using them. This session will feature V-Mock, a newly launched software that provides immediate resume feedback, Interview Stream, Titan Resume Builder and more. Register for Less Time Proofing. 15 Thursday, December 5 12:00-1:00 PM (LH-705) Lunch provided How to Partner with Your College Career Specialist Learn different ways that your College Career Specialist can provide you with support and information to help your students. Gain insight on all of the ways that you can partner with your College Career Specialist. Register for Partner with College Career Specialist. 16 Wednesday, December 11 12:00-1:00 PM (LH-705) Lunch provided Less Time Proofing More Time Teaching, Ready Made CareerNo time to proof or review? No problem. Learn which tech tools the Career Center offers and how students are using them. This session will feature V-Mock, a newly launched software that provides immediate resume feedback, Interview Stream, Titan Resume Builder and more. Register for Less Time Proof Reading. This site is maintained by Academic Advising Center. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact zz-pasharma@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.