Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Legal Affairs & General Counsel General Counsel right arrow down arrow Office of General Counsel right arrow down arrow Public Records Requests Contracting with UC Ethics Attorneys & Staff Contact Us Enterprise Risk Management right arrow down arrow Insurance & Claims right arrow down arrow Insurance Verification or Claims History right arrow down arrow Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training right arrow down arrow Drones right arrow down arrow Flight Request Form Fleet Safety right arrow down arrow Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process right arrow down arrow Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Privacy Internal Audit Home » About UC » Legal Affairs & General Counsel » Enterprise Risk Management » About the Process » FAQ's Set Navigation title in component Insurance & Claims Insurance Verification or Claims History Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training Drones Flight Request Form Fleet Safety Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager FAQ's Claims What do I do if I have a claim? right arrow down arrow Enterprise Risk Management handles all claims for the University. For more information, please contact ERM@uc.edu. Is this incident/loss covered by insurance? right arrow down arrow It depends. As a starting place, read the information on insurance and claims and be sure to report any claims in a timely manner. Medical Professional I received a subpoena, what should I do with it? right arrow down arrow Subpoenas received by faculty physicians or similar providers having to do with your professional treatment of patients, should be forwarded immediately to Enterprise Risk Management. All others, follow the direction of General Counsel. How do I get a physician or medical practitioner claims history letter? right arrow down arrow Complete the Claims History / Proof of insurance Request and Enterprise Risk Management will respond within 3-5 business days. How do I get proof of my medical professional coverage? right arrow down arrow Complete the Claims History / Proof of insurance Request and Enterprise Risk Management will respond within 3-5 business days. I am a licensed healthcare provider. Do I have professional malpractice insurance coverage? right arrow down arrow Our insurance covers licensed medical professionals acting within the scope of their clinical program assignment at a covered entity. For more information, visit the Medical Professional page. Students Are students covered by UC insurance? right arrow down arrow In general, students are not covered by the University’s insurance unless the student is a student employee, is serving in a supervised internship program to satisfy course requirements, is acting at the direction of the University, or is performing services primarily for, or on behalf of, the University. Who do I go to for student health insurance questions? right arrow down arrow Student health insurance is not facilitated by Enterprise Risk Management. For questions, please visit Student Health Insurance. Are student organizations covered by University insurance? right arrow down arrow As a general rule, members of student organizations are not covered under the University's various lines of insurance coverage for the activities they participate in, but there may be a few exceptions. For more information, visit the student organization page. Where can student organizations get insurance coverage? right arrow down arrow Insurance can be purchased through Campus Connexions or URMIA. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top