Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Information Technology Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Resources For I Want To Services Security and Privacy About Students Alumni Faculty Retirees Researchers Visitors Staff Access My Email Log in to LionMail Log in to ADCU Outlook Web App Log in to CUIMC Email Check CUIT Service Alerts Connect to Columbia WiFi Contact the CUIT Service Desk Download Software Log in to CourseWorks Manage My University ID (UNI) Activate My UNI or Email Change My Password Manage My Duo MFA Account Print on Campus Use Zoom View Computer and System Recommendations Visit the ServiceNow Customer Portal Academic Systems Accounts and Access Administrative Systems Cloud Services Computer Lab and Classroom Technologies Email and Calendar Endpoint Device Technologies IT Professional Services Network and Wireless Research Services Security and Risk Management Servers, Backup and Storage Service Desk Software and Apps Telephony and Communications Services Web Services Anti-malware CUIT Security Downloads Data Security Guidelines for International Travel Get Started with Computer Security at Columbia General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Handling Personally Identifying Information Keep Your Operating System Up To Date Phishing: Recognize and Report Secure Resources for Systems Administrators Using Strong Passwords Staff Directory and Org. Chart Senior Leadership Departments Locations IT Policies and Strategies IT Partners at the University Careers Columbia University Information Technology You are here: Home Security and Privacy Security and Privacy User Guides to Safer Computing IT Policies apply to all individuals who access or control Columbia University information resources. Send reports of security incidents, attacks, or questions to [email protected]. Phishing: Recognize and Report Protect your data by reporting phish attempts and being aware of common phishing email clues. Getting Started with Computer Security at Columbia Steps to take before you arrive on campus to stay secure. Keep Your Operating System Up to Date Use built-in automatic update features to patch holes in your computer's defenses and fend off network worms. Spectre and Meltdown Exploits Learn about vulnerabilities that impact nearly all computers, mobile devices and servers. Use Anti-Malware Application and Keep It Up to Date Use an anti-virus program and keep it up to date to avoid known viruses, worms and trojans. Use Strong Passwords Everywhere Use strong passwords both online and on your PC to prevent anyone from guessing them. Protect Your Personally Identifiable Information Identify, remediate, and secure sensitive information (PII) that could be on your computer. Keep Your Machine Physically Secure Take steps to ensure that your computer, and the data inside of it, never falls into the wrong hands. Make Backups Even if your computer is lost, you can save your data by making backups. Be Aware When You Are Traveling Abroad Guidelines for protecting your data during international travel. Secure Resources for CU Systems Administrators Security tools for Columbia's sysadmins. How to Identify Legitimate Websites Make sure a website is secure before providing any personal information. Related Links CUIT Data Protection and Applications Security Department CUIT Identity and Access Management Department CUIT Information Technology Risk Management Department CUIT Network Security Development and Special Projects Department CUIT Network Security Monitoring Department CUIMC IT Security Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Administrative OfficesStudebaker Building, 5th & 6th Floors, 615 West 131st Street · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Walk-in Center202 Philosophy Hall, 1150 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-1919 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close