Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Michael Gerrard Andrew Sabin Professor of Professional Practice Full-time Faculty Education J.D., New York University School of Law, 1978 B.A., Columbia University, 1972 Areas of Study Environment and Energy Areas of Specialty Environmental Law Climate Change Law and Policy Energy Regulation The founder and faculty director of the groundbreaking Sabin Center for Climate Change Law and one of the foremost environmental lawyers in the nation, Michael Gerrard is an advocate, litigator, teacher, and scholar who has pioneered cutting-edge legal tools and strategies for addressing climate change. He writes and teaches courses on environmental law, climate change law, and energy regulation. He was the chair of the faculty of Columbia University’s renowned Earth Institute from 2015 to 2018. For three decades, before joining the Columbia Law School faculty in 2009, Gerrard practiced law in New York, most recently as the partner in charge of the New York office of Arnold & Porter, where he remains senior counsel. As an environmental lawyer, he tried numerous cases and argued many appeals in federal and state courts and administrative tribunals. He also handled the environmental aspects of diverse transactions and development projects and provided regulatory compliance advice to an array of clients in the private and public sectors. Several publications rated him the leading environmental lawyer in New York and one of the leaders in the world. A prolific author, he has written or edited 13 books, including Global Climate Change and U.S. Law, the first and leading work in its field (co-edited with Jody Freeman). His most recent book is Legal Pathways to Deep Decarbonization in the United States (co-edited with John Dernbach). His 12-volume Environmental Law Practice Guide and four-volume Brownfields Law and Practice each received the Association of American Publishers’ Best Law Book of the Year award. Gerrard is the former chair of the American Bar Association’s 10,000-member Section of Environment, Energy, and Resources. He has also chaired the New York City Bar Association’s Executive Committee and the New York State Bar Association’s environmental law section. He has served on the executive committees of the boards of the Environmental Law Institute and the American College of Environmental Lawyers. Gerrard also has taught courses at Yale School of Forestry & Environmental Studies, Université Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne, and the University of Malta. He has lectured on environmental law in Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Denmark, France, Great Britain, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malta, the Marshall Islands, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Taiwan, Vatican City, and throughout the United States. He has worked with the government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands on the legal issues caused by rising sea levels that threaten the island nation. Publications 2019 Environmental Law Institute Legal Pathways to Deep Decarbonization in the United States Detailed recommendations for how U.S. law—federal, state, and local—needs to change in order for the country to phase out the use of fossil fuels and radically reduce greenhouse gas emissions. More about Michael Gerrard’s other publications. Honors and Awards WE ACT (West Harlem for Environmental Justice) Gala Awardee 2021 New York State Bar Association, Environmental & Energy Law Section Council Award 2020 Distinguished Achievement in Environmental Law and Policy Award, American Bar Association (to Sabin Center) 2017 Defender of Science Award, Climate Science Legal Defense Fund 2017 Lloyd K. Garrison Award in Environmental Law, Pace Law School 2016 Environmental Advocates of New York, Advocate Award 2007 Received the most nominations worldwide in Legal Media Group, Guide to the World’s Leading Environmental Lawyers 2005–2008 Download Full CV Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Research and Scholarship News Introducing Defending the Planet Can lawyers save the planet? Host Michael B. Gerrard introduces the new limited-series podcast from Columbia Law. In The Press The Supreme Court v. A Livable Planet Michael Gerrard | Sierra Magazine In The Press Federal Ruling Opens up Legal ‘Hornets’ Nest’ on Gulf Oil Leasing Michael Gerrard | Houston Chronicle In The Press Gulf Oil Leasing Annulment Puts Climate Crisis Upfront Michael Gerrard | Law360 Michael Gerrard for Earth Day Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.