Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Bursar Bursar right arrow down arrow Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Tuition Guarantee Policy Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance How Fees Are Determined Prior Year Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Academic Year 2021-2022 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2020-2021 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2019-2020 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Paying your Bill right arrow down arrow Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits Refunds right arrow down arrow Direct Deposit Enrollment Refund Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Refund Appeals right arrow down arrow Tuition Refund Appeals Process Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Insurance Past Due Accounts right arrow down arrow Collections Payment Plans Collections Timeline Loans right arrow down arrow Short Term Loan Loan Repayment Student Loan FAQ's Tax Forms & Disclosures right arrow down arrow Form 1098-T right arrow down arrow Detailed Explantion of the 1098-T Form 1098-T FAQs Form 1042-S Banking Contract Disclosure Contact Us right arrow down arrow The Team Bursar Contact Form Home » About UC » Office of the Bursar » Refunds » Tuition Refund Appeals Process » Tuition Refund Appeals Process Set Navigation title in component Direct Deposit Enrollment Refund Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Refund Appeals Tuition Refund Appeals Process Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Insurance Tuition Refund Appeals Process Filing a Refund Application To complete the Tuition Refund request in Catalyst: Click the "My Finances" tile Select "Tuition Refund Appeal" under the "Billing Information" folder Select the term for which you are requesting a refund. Only terms for which you have at least one grade evidencing non-completion will be available for a refund request. Include an explanation of your situation/request in the space provided on the application form. Attach documentation for your application. Be sure to select the correct required document type listed in the instruction box on that page. If two documents are required, be sure to include them as separate documents. Tuition refund applications will typically be reviewed in the month following submission. TRAC normally meets twice a month to discuss cases. Applications are reviewed in the order in which they are received. Once the Refund Application is Complete It is important that you monitor your UC email account after submitting your application. Representatives from the Tuition Refund Appeals Committee may contact you via your UC email upon receipt of your application to discuss your request. As needed, they will: Review any supporting documentation you submit with your TRA form, as well as advise you if additional documentation is necessary Contact relevant faculty and university departments to ascertain if additional information is available Refer the documentation & circumstances of your application to the Title IX or Student Conduct office as appropriate under University policy Gather and evaluate the documentation submitted When a Decision Has Been Reached Once the TRA Committee has made a determination regarding the disposition of your application you will be notified by email to your UC email account. A favorable decision for a tuition refund application does not necessarily relieve you of all financial obligations to the University of Cincinnati nor guarantee you a refund. Several factors will determine whether you have a remaining balance due to the University of Cincinnati or will receive a refund for payments you’ve made: Refunds will only be issued for out of pocket payments, earned federal financial aid, and private aid sources Federal financial aid you received in the term from which you withdrew will be subject to a return of Title IV funds calculation, which will determine how much of your federal aid you are eligible to keep State aid is tuition restricted and not refundable to the student; if your tuition is waived state aid is returned to the state Institutional aid will be removed prior to a refund being issued A favorable decision will not clear your academic record of withdrawal grades. When you withdraw from courses after the drop period those courses will remain part of your academic record regardless of the determination of the Tuition Refund Appeals Committee. Appealing the Committee Decision If your initial application is denied, you have 30 days to appeal to the TRA Committee for a second review. You may submit the appeal by clicking "Request Appeal" on the denied application in Catalyst. A second review will only occur if you submit significant information or additional documentation related to your application that was not provided in the original application. You cannot change the basis of your refund request during the appeals process. Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top