Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of English Undergraduate Graduate People Internships News/Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Students How to Apply MA Writing and RhetoricTESOLApplied LinguisticsLiteratureTechnical Communication MFA Creative WritingFAQ PhD Applied LinguisticsWriting, Rhetoric, and Technical CommunicationLiterary and Cultural Studies Certificate African American Literature Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages Writing Studies Online Degree Programs Advising Financial Aid and Scholarships Graduate Courses Two-Year Template 2022-2024Graduate Course Descriptions Organizations UM English Graduate Organization Forms UofM Graduate Online FormsEnglish Teaching/Graduate Assistantship ApplicationGraduate Advising WorksheetGraduate Independent Study FormThesis Hour Registration and Prospectus FormDissertation Hour Registration Form Graduate Catalog Take Action Apply Now Alumni and Friends Course Offerings Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of English Graduate Students Certificate in TESL/TEFL Certificate in TESOL The Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) graduate certificate provides training to those interested in teaching English as a Second/Foreign Language. The certificate is given to those who complete the practical preparation needed to teach English both within and outside the US to post-secondary students and adults. The courses for the program focus on the specific knowledge and skills specified for ESL teachers as identified by Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages, Inc (TESOL). Students have the option of completing the program online as part of our MA in TESOL online degree. Students may also choose to complete a portion of this certificate abroad as part of our program in the Czech Republic. To find more information about the Pilsen, Czech Republic Study Abroad program contact Lorraine Meiners-Lovel. Program Notes: The certificate program requires completion of fifteen (15) semester credit hours. This certificate program is not a program to prepare K-12 ESL teachers. Pre-service and in-service teachers seeking an ESL certificate and an add-on endorsement in ESL for K-12 should see the Teacher Add-On Licensure program. Credits earned from this certificate program may count toward the MA or PhD degree programs. It is expected that many already-admitted students will earn the certificate on their way to their degrees. Such students wishing to earn the Certificate must apply to the Graduate School using the Change of Status form. Please see the Graduate Catalog for specific program requirements. TESOL Certificate Contact Information: Dr. Rebecca Adams- TESOL Coordinator 901.678.4892 radams4@memphis.edu Ready to Apply? Apply Now > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/2/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.