COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Research at Wichita State Section Menu Innovation at Wichita State Research at Wichita State Applied Learning Innovation Campus About WSU Admissions Stop Video Research is a key component of Wichita State's Innovation strategy. Our unique blending of accomplished faculty, high-tech labs and research facilities and on-campus partnerships offers students the chance to be a part of vital research that is changing lives. Research is a key component of Wichita State's Innovation strategy. Our unique blending of accomplished faculty, high-tech labs and research facilities and on-campus partnerships offers students the chance to be a part of vital research that is changing lives. Announcements Sections Topics COVID-19 Exposure RESEARCH RISING Since 2010, Wichita State University is one of the fastest-growing research universities in the United States. We intend to continue that arc with increased opportunities for student research and interdisciplinary research projects. Office of Research WSU's Office of Research was created to support faculty and staff researchers in streamlining the development and implementation of proposals, grants and contracts. The office is focused on fostering technology transfer by supporting the development of new business ventures, partnerships, patenting and licensing. Learn more Convergence Sciences The Convergence Sciences Initiative advances interdisciplinary faculty and student research by removing barriers and rewarding collaboration and creativity. Learn more Centers and Institutes Wichita State University research is buoyed by more than 30 centers and institutes that provide crucial research for local, regional and national entities. Learn more URCAF Through the Undergraduate Research and Creative Activity Forum, students present their scholarly and creative activity and compete for cash awards. Learn more GRASP Symposium The Graduate Research and Scholarly Projects (GRASP) Symposium showcases innovative graduate research to the wider community. Learn more RESEARCH BY THE NUMBERS Wichita State continues to rise in the National Science Foundation's ranking of U.S. college engineering R&D expenditures Learn more As one of the fastest-growing research universities in the country, Wichita State continues a run of setting annual research funding records. Learn more WSU's Youngmeyer Ranch, Ninnescah Reserve, Gerber Reserve and Sellers Reserve field stations support research, instruction, conservation and outreach. Learn more Wichita State's research and academic capacity is elevated and expanded by a growing list of centers and institutes that serve as conduits for new knowledge and insight. Learn more RESEARCH ON THE INNOVATION CAMPUS Wichita State University's Innovation Campus brings together resources, ideas, expertise and student talent to make the world a better place. The Innovation Campus features more than 20 national and international companies in an environment designed to foster collaboration and interaction. Innovation Campus website INNOVATION CAMPUS PARTNERS Restoring lost history Using 17th century accounts of Spanish conquistadors, Wichita State professor Donald Blakeslee and his team of students rediscovered the fabled lost city of Etzanoa, located near Arkansas City, Kansas. Read more about Etzanoa Research News All Research Stories High-tech simulation manikins revolutionize audiology education Wichita State rises in NSF R&D expenditures lists Researcher lands NSF grant for data-driven decision-making study WSU students presenting for Kansas Undergraduate Research Days WSU researcher advocates for a community approach to stop bullying WSU chemist partners with area universities on $3.7M COVID-19 research 'Aviation geeks' team on book that investigates causes of flight anxiety WSU students inducted into The Scientific Research Honor Society Beyond the classroom, beyond the campus Thanks to our location in Kansas' largest city, Wichita State students have applied learning and real-world research opportunities other school can't match. Our vast partnerships in virtually every industry provide students with diverse opportunities to train like professionals—while still in school. Research links Office of Research Undergraduate Research Convergence Sciences Initiative 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©