Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Official Publications Menu Search TTU Official Publications Academic Calendars 2021-2022 Official Academic Calendar Official Academic Calendar 2021-2022 Texas Tech University reserves the right to make changes to the calendar that are in the best interest of faculty, students, and academic programs. Fall 2021 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Academic Year Fall Intersession August 9 - 22 August Wednesday 11 August 10:00 a.m., Residence halls open for occupancy (Fall Move In). Select Hospitality Services dining locations open for service (Hospitality). Monday 16 August 95% payment of mandatory tuition and fees or enrollment in a payment plan due for fall. Registrations after this date require immediate payment or enrollment in a payment plan. Wednesday 18 August Faculty on duty. Monday 23 August Classes begin. All dining locations open for service (Hospitality). Thursday 26 August Last day for student-initiated addition of a course on MyTech. Courses may be added until September 8 with advisor and instructor permission. September Back to Top Monday 6 September Labor Day. University holiday. Limited dining locations available (Hospitality). Wednesday 8 September Last day for student-initiated drop on MyTech without academic penalty (drop does not count against drop limit). All drops are the responsibility of the student. Last day to drop a course and have course charges removed. Students who wish to drop to 0 hours must submit a withdrawal request online (Withdrawal Information). Financial penalties apply for withdrawals after September 8. Last day to withdraw from the university without financial penalty. For more information visit (Withdrawal Dates). Last day to change a major and/or transfer between colleges for current term. Thursday 9 September Student-initiated drop made on or after this date counts against drop limit. All drops are the responsibility of the student. Friday 17 September Last day for graduate degree candidates to file with the Graduate School an application to graduate. Monday 20 September Last day to withdraw from the university and receive partial financial credit. For more information visit (Withdrawal Dates). Last day to withdraw from the university and receive pro-rated room and Dining Plan refund. For more information see (Housing). Last day to change on-campus Dining Plan level for the fall semester (Hospitality). Friday 24 September Last day for doctoral and master's thesis students to submit the Thesis-Dissertation Defense Notification form. October Back to Top Monday 11 October Midterm grading opens. Friday 15 October Last day for graduate degree candidates to defend theses/dissertations. Last day for master's non-thesis degree candidates to complete the comprehensive evaluation. Monday 18 October Last day for degree candidates and faculty to order invitations and academic regalia at the bookstore. Monday 25 October 5:00 p.m., Midterm grades due via Raiderlink. November Back to Top Thursday 4 November 3:00 p.m., First day of spring 2022 semester and summer 2022 term advance registration for currently enrolled students (continues through November 22). Friday 5 November Last day for graduate degree candidates to submit to the ETD website the final PDF of thesis/dissertation. Last day for graduate degree candidates to submit the Oral Defense and Thesis-Dissertation Approval Form. Last day for M.M. and D.M.A. candidates to post the PDFs of recital programs to the ETD website and submit recordings of recitals to the Graduate School. Monday 15 November Last day to remove grades of I, PR, or CR in the Graduate School. This does not apply to the PR/CR received on a previous thesis or dissertation enrollment. Official reports due to Graduate School on Interdisciplinary Portfolio for the master's degree (non-thesis students). Official reports due to Graduate School on results of final comprehensive evaluations. Last day for graduate degree candidates to pay thesis-dissertation fee posted to Banner account. Monday 22 November Last day of advance registration for spring and summer 2022. Mon-Wed 22-1 Nov-Dec Period of no examinations except for makeup exams or scheduled lab exams. Tuesday 23 November Open registration for spring and summer 2022 begins. Last day for student-initiated drop on MyTech with academic penalty (counts against drop limit). All drops are the responsibility of the student. Last day to withdraw from the university. Although withdrawal can be processed until this date, all tuition and fees related to the registration are due in full and no refunds will be issued. Last day to declare pass/fail intentions. Wed-Sun 24-28 November Thanksgiving holiday. No meals available at any Hospitality Services location November 25-28 (Hospitality). Monday 29 November Classes resume. Raiderlink available for grading (degree candidate grades due at noon December 9). Tuesday 30 November Carol of Lights. December Back to Top Wednesday 1 December Last day of classes. Thursday 2 December Individual study day. Late night pancakes available for residents living on campus (Hospitality). Friday 3 December Last day for undergraduate degree candidates to remove grades of I and PR. Fri-Wed 3-8 December Final examinations. Wednesday 8 December Fall semester ends. Thursday 9 December Move Out. Last day for most dining locations (Hospitality). Noon, grades due for graduating students via Raiderlink. 10:00 a.m., Residence halls close. Degree candidates may occupy residence hall rooms until 10:00 a.m. Saturday, December 11 (Winter Break Housing). Fri-Sat 10-11 December Commencement. Schedule of ceremonies can be found at (Commencement). Degree candidates may occupy residence hall rooms until 10:00 a.m. Saturday. Monday 13 December 5:00 p.m., Final grades due via Raiderlink. Back to Top Winter Intersession December 9-23, January 4-7 January Friday 7 January 95% payment of mandatory tuition and fees or enrollment in a payment plan due for spring. Registrations after this date require immediate payment or enrollment in a payment plan. Sunday 9 January Move In. 10:00 a.m., Residence halls open for occupancy (Spring Move In). Select dining locations open for service (Hospitality). Monday 10 January Faculty on duty. Wednesday 12 January Classes begin. Monday 17 January MLK Day. University holiday. Modified dining hours (Hospitality). Tuesday 18 January Last day for student-initiated addition of a course on MyTech. Courses may be added until January 28 with advisor and instructor permission. Friday 28 January Last day for student-initiated drop on MyTech without academic penalty (drop does not count against drop limit). All drops are the responsibility of the student. Last day to drop a course and have course charges removed. Students who wish to drop to 0 hours must submit a withdrawal request online (Withdrawal Information). Financial penalties apply for withdrawals after January 28. Last day to withdraw from the university without financial penalty. For more information visit (Withdrawal Dates). Last day to change a major and/or transfer between colleges for the current term. Saturday 29 January Student-initiated drop made on or after this date counts against drop limit. All drops are the responsibility of the student. February Back to Top Friday 4 February Last day for graduate degree candidates to file with the Graduate School an application to graduate. Wednesday 9 February Last day to withdraw from the university and receive partial financial credit. For more information see (Withdrawal Dates). Last day to withdraw from the university and receive pro-rated room and Dining Plan refund. For more information see (Housing). Last day to change on-campus Dining Plan level for the spring semester (Hospitality). Wednesday 16 February Last day for doctoral and master's thesis students to submit the Thesis-Dissertation Defense Notification form. March Back to Top Wednesday 2 March Midterm grading opens. Friday 11 March Last day for most dining locations until after spring vacation (Hospitality). Sat-Sun 12-20 March Spring vacation. Limited dining locations March 14-17 (Hospitality). Monday 21 March Classes resume. Hospitality Services dining locations open for service (Hospitality). Wednesday 23 March Last day for degree candidates and faculty to order invitations and academic regalia at the bookstore. 5:00 p.m., Midterm grades due via Raiderlink. April Back to Top Friday 1 April Last day for graduate degree candidates to defend theses/dissertations. Last day for master's non-thesis students to complete comprehensive evaluations for the master's degree. Thursday 7 April 3:00 p.m., First day for fall 2022 advance registration for currently enrolled students (continues through April 26). Friday 8 April Last day for graduate degree candidates to submit to the Graduate School the final PDF of thesis/dissertation. Last day for graduate degree candidates to submit the Oral Defense and Thesis-Dissertation Approval Form. Last day for M.M. and D.M.A. candidates to post the PDFs of recital programs to the ETD website and submit recordings of recitals to the Graduate School. Friday 15 April Last day to remove grades of I, PR, or CR in the Graduate School. This does not apply to the PR/CR received on a previous thesis or dissertation enrollment. Monday 18 April No classes. University employees on duty. Select dining locations open for service (Hospitality). Tuesday 26 April Last day of advance registration for fall 2022. Last day for graduate degree candidates to pay thesis-dissertation fee posted to Banner account. Official reports due to Graduate School on Interdisciplinary Portfolio for the master's degree (non-thesis students). Official reports due to Graduate School on results of final comprehensive evaluations. Wednesday 27 April Open registration for fall 2022 begins. Last day to declare pass/fail intentions. Last day for student-initiated drop on MyTech with academic penalty (counts against drop limit). All drops are the responsibility of the student. Last day to withdraw from the university. Although withdrawal can be processed until this date, all tuition and fees related to the registration are due in full and no refunds will be issued. Thurs-Wed 28-4 April-May Period of no examinations except for makeup exams or scheduled lab exams. Friday 29 April Last day for undergraduate degree candidates to remove grades of I and PR. May Back to Top Monday 2 May Raiderlink available for grading (degree candidate grades due at noon May 11). Tuesday 3 May Last day of classes. Wednesday 4 May Individual study day. Late night pancakes available for residents living on campus (Hospitality). Thurs-Tues 5-10 May Final examinations. Tuesday 10 May Spring semester ends. Wednesday 11 May Move Out. Noon, grades due for graduating students via Raiderlink. Last day for most dining locations (Hospitality). 10:00 a.m., Residence halls close. Degree candidates may occupy residence hall rooms until 10:00 a.m. Saturday, May 14 (Housing). Fri-Sat 13-14 May Commencement. Schedule of ceremonies can be found at (Commencement). Degree candidates may occupy residence hall rooms until 10:00 a.m. Saturday. Monday 16 May 5:00 p.m., Final grades due via Raiderlink. Back to Top May Intersession 11 - 27 Early Summer Term Wednesday 25 May 95% payment of mandatory tuition and fees or enrollment in a payment plan due for Intersession, Early Summer, or Full Summer. Registrations after this date require immediate payment or enrollment in a payment plan. Sunday 29 May Move In. 10:00 a.m., Residence halls open for occupancy (Move In). Select Hospitality Services dining locations open for summer service (Hospitality). Tuesday 31 May Faculty on duty. Wednesday 1 June Classes begin. Thursday 2 June Last day for student-initiated addition of a course on MyTech. Courses may be added until June 6 with advisor and instructor permission. Monday 6 June Last day for student-initiated drop on MyTech without academic penalty (drop does not count against drop limit) for Early Summer. All drops are the responsibility of the student. Last day to drop a course and have course charges removed for Early Summer and Full Summer. Students who drop to 0 hours are considered to be a withdrawal. Financial penalties apply for withdrawals after June 6. Last day to withdraw from the university for Early Summer or Full Summer without financial penalty. Note: Withdrawal is not an option if a course has been completed within the summer term (Intersession, Early, Full or Late). For more information visit (Student Business Services) and (Withdrawal Dates). Last day for doctoral and master's thesis students to file a defense notification form. Last day for degree candidates to order invitations and academic regalia at the bookstore. Last day to change major and/or transfer between colleges for the current term. Tuesday 7 June Student-initiated drop made on or after this date for Early or Full Summer counts against drop limit. All drops are the responsibility of the student. Wednesday 8 June Last day to withdraw from the university for Full Summer and receive partial financial credit. For more information visit (Student Business Services). Note: Withdrawal is not an option if a course has been completed within the summer term (Intersession, Early, Full, or Late). Friday 10 June Last day for graduate degree candidates to file with the Graduate School an application to graduate. Monday 27 June Last day for student-initiated drop on MyTech with academic penalty (counts against drop limit) for Early Summer. All drops are the responsibility of the student. Last day to withdraw from the university for Early Summer (not Full Summer). Although withdrawal can be processed until this date, all tuition and fees related to the registration are due in full and no refunds will be issued. Last day for undergraduate degree candidates to remove grades of I and PR. Last day to declare pass/fail intentions. Last day for master's non-thesis degree candidates to complete the comprehensive evaluation. Last day for graduate degree candidates to defend theses/dissertations. Tuesday 28 June Raiderlink available for grading. Thursday 30 June Last day of classes. Fri-Sat 1-2 July Final examinations. Saturday 2 July Move Out. Early Summer term ends. Students without room reservations for Late Summer or Full Summer must vacate residence hall rooms by 10:00 a.m. Monday 4 July Independence Day. University Holiday. Modified dining hours (Hospitality). Tuesday 5 July 5:00 p.m., Final grades due via Raiderlink. Late Summer Term Back to Top Tuesday 28 June 95% payment of mandatory tuition and fees or enrollment in a payment plan due for Late Summer. Registrations after this date require immediate payment or enrollment in a payment plan. Sunday 3 July Move In. 10:00 a.m., Residence halls open for Late Summer occupancy. Select Hospitality Services dining locations open for summer service (Hospitality). Monday 4 July Independence Day. University Holiday. Modified dining hours (Hospitality). Tuesday 5 July Faculty on duty. Classes begin. Last day for graduate degree candidates to submit to the ETD website the final PDF of thesis/dissertation. Last day for graduate degree candidates to submit the Oral Defense and Thesis-Dissertation Approval Form. Wednesday 6 July Last day for student-initiated addition of a course on MyTech. Courses may be added until July 8 with advisor and instructor permission. Friday 8 July Last day for student-initiated drop on MyTech without academic penalty (drop does not count against drop limit) for Late Summer. All drops are the responsibility of the student. Last day to drop a course and have course charges removed for Late Summer. Students who wish to drop to 0 hours must submit a withdrawal online (Withdrawal Information). Financial penalties apply for withdrawals after July 8. Last day to withdraw from the university for Late Summer without financial penalty. For more information see (Withdrawal Dates). Note: Withdrawal is not an option if a course has been completed within the summer term (Intersession, Early, Full, or Late). Official reports due to Graduate School on Interdisciplinary Portfolio for the master's degree (non-thesis students). Official reports due to Graduate School on results of final comprehensive evaluations. Last day to remove grades of I, PR, or CR in the Graduate School. This does not apply to the PR/CR received on a previous thesis or dissertation enrollment. Last day for graduate degree candidates to pay thesis-dissertation fee posted to Banner account. Last day for M.M. and D.M.A. candidates to post the PDFs of recital programs to the ETD website and to submit recordings of recitals to the Graduate School. Last day to change major and/or transfer between colleges for the current term. Saturday 9 July Student-initiated drop made on or after this date counts against drop limit. All drops are the responsibility of the student. Monday 1 August Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the university for Full or Late Summer. Although withdrawal can be processed until this date, all tuition and fees related to the registration are due in full and no refunds will be issued. Note: Withdrawal is not an option if a course has been completed within the summer term (Intersession, Early, Full, or Late). Last day for undergraduate degree candidates to remove grades of I and PR. Last day to declare pass/fail intentions. Tuesday 2 August Raiderlink available for grading. Wednesday 3 August Last day of classes. Thur-Fri 4-5 August Final examinations for second term. Late Summer and Full Summer parts of term end. Saturday 6 August Move Out. Commencement. Schedule of ceremonies can be found at (Commencement). Last day for most summer dining locations (Hospitality). Students without room reservations for fall 2022 must vacate residence hall rooms by 10:00 a.m. (Housing). Monday 8 August 5:00 p.m., Final grades due via Raiderlink. Back to Top FALL INTERSESSION AUGUST 9 - 22 August Click to Expand Wednesday 11 August 10:00 a.m., Residence halls open for occupancy (Fall Move In). Select Hospitality Services dining locations open for service (Hospitality). Monday 16 August 95% payment of mandatory tuition and fees or enrollment in a payment plan due for fall. Registrations after this date require immediate payment or enrollment in a payment plan. Wednesday 18 August Faculty on duty. Monday 23 August Classes begin. All dining locations open for service (Hospitality). Thursday 26 August Last day for student-initiated addition of a course on MyTech. Courses may be added until September 8 with advisor and instructor permission. September Click to Expand Monday 6 September Labor Day. University holiday. Limited dining locations available (Hospitality). Wednesday 8 September Last day for student-initiated drop on MyTech without academic penalty (drop does not count against drop limit). All drops are the responsibility of the student. Last day to drop a course and have course charges removed. Students who wish to drop to 0 hours must submit a withdrawal request online (Withdrawal Information). Financial penalties apply for withdrawals after September 8. Last day to withdraw from the university without financial penalty. For more information visit (Withdrawal Dates). Last day to change a major and/or transfer between colleges for current term. Thursday 9 September Student-initiated drop made on or after this date counts against drop limit. All drops are the responsibility of the student. Friday 17 September Last day for graduate degree candidates to file with the Graduate School an application to graduate. Monday 20 September Last day to withdraw from the university and receive partial financial credit. For more information visit (Withdrawal Dates). Last day to withdraw from the university and receive pro-rated room and Dining Plan refund. For more information see (Housing). Last day to change on-campus Dining Plan level for the fall semester (Hospitality). Friday 24 September Last day for doctoral and master's thesis students to submit the Thesis-Dissertation Defense Notification form. October Click to Expand Monday 11 October Midterm grading opens. Friday 15 October Last day for graduate degree candidates to defend theses/dissertations. Last day for master's non-thesis degree candidates to complete the comprehensive evaluation. Monday 18 October Last day for degree candidates and faculty to order invitations and academic regalia at the bookstore. Monday 25 October 5:00 p.m., Midterm grades due via Raiderlink. November Click to Expand Thursday 4 November 3:00 p.m., First day of spring 2022 semester and summer 2022 term advance registration for currently enrolled students (continues through November 22). Friday 5 November Last day for graduate degree candidates to submit to the ETD website the final PDF of thesis/dissertation. Last day for graduate degree candidates to submit the Oral Defense and Thesis-Dissertation Approval Form. Last day for M.M. and D.M.A. candidates to post the PDFs of recital programs to the ETD website and submit recordings of recitals to the Graduate School. Monday 15 November Last day to remove grades of I, PR, or CR in the Graduate School. This does not apply to the PR/CR received on a previous thesis or dissertation enrollment. Official reports due to Graduate School on Interdisciplinary Portfolio for the master's degree (non-thesis students). Official reports due to Graduate School on results of final comprehensive evaluations. Last day for graduate degree candidates to pay thesis-dissertation fee posted to Banner account. Monday 22 November Last day of advance registration for spring and summer 2022. Mon-Wed 22-1 Nov-Dec Period of no examinations except for makeup exams or scheduled lab exams. Tuesday 23 November Open registration for spring and summer 2022 begins. Last day for student-initiated drop on MyTech with academic penalty (counts against drop limit). All drops are the responsibility of the student. Last day to withdraw from the university. Although withdrawal can be processed until this date, all tuition and fees related to the registration are due in full and no refunds will be issued. Last day to declare pass/fail intentions. Wed-Sun 24-28 November Thanksgiving holiday. No meals available at any Hospitality Services location November 25-28 (Hospitality). Monday 29 November Classes resume. Raiderlink available for grading (degree candidate grades due at noon December 9). Tuesday 30 November Carol of Lights. December Click to Expand Wednesday 1 December Last day of classes. Thursday 2 December Individual study day. Late night pancakes available for residents living on campus (Hospitality). Friday 3 December Last day for undergraduate degree candidates to remove grades of I and PR. Fri-Wed 3-8 December Final examinations. Wednesday 8 December Fall semester ends. Thursday 9 December Move Out. Last day for most dining locations (Hospitality). Noon, grades due for graduating students via Raiderlink. 10:00 a.m., Residence halls close. Degree candidates may occupy residence hall rooms until 10:00 a.m. Saturday, December 11 (Winter Break Housing). Fri-Sat 10-11 December Commencement. Schedule of ceremonies can be found at (Commencement). Degree candidates may occupy residence hall rooms until 10:00 a.m. Saturday. Monday 13 December 5:00 p.m., Final grades due via Raiderlink. Winter Intersession December 9-23, January 4-7 January Click to Expand Friday 7 January 95% payment of mandatory tuition and fees or enrollment in a payment plan due for spring. Registrations after this date require immediate payment or enrollment in a payment plan. Thursday 9 January Move In. 10:00 a.m., Residence halls open for occupancy (Spring Move In). Select dining locations open for service (Hospitality). Monday 10 January Faculty on duty. Wednesday 12 January Classes begin. Monday 17 January MLK Day. University holiday. Modified dining hours (Hospitality). Tuesday 18 January Last day for student-initiated addition of a course on MyTech. Courses may be added until January 28 with advisor and instructor permission. Friday 28 January Last day for student-initiated drop on MyTech without academic penalty (drop does not count against drop limit). All drops are the responsibility of the student. Last day to drop a course and have course charges removed. Students who wish to drop to 0 hours must submit a withdrawal request online (Withdrawal Information). Financial penalties apply for withdrawals after January 28. Last day to withdraw from the university without financial penalty. For more information visit (Withdrawal Dates). Last day to change a major and/or transfer between colleges for the current term. Saturday 29 January Student-initiated drop made on or after this date counts against drop limit. All drops are the responsibility of the student. February Click to Expand Friday 4 February Last day for graduate degree candidates to file with the Graduate School an application to graduate. Wednesday 9 February Last day to withdraw from the university and receive partial financial credit. For more information see (Withdrawal Dates). Last day to withdraw from the university and receive pro-rated room and Dining Plan refund. For more information see (Housing). Last day to change on-campus Dining Plan level for the spring semester (Hospitality). Wednesday 16 February Last day for doctoral and master's thesis students to submit the Thesis-Dissertation Defense Notification form. March Click to Expand Wednesday 2 March Midterm grading opens. Friday 11 March Last day for most dining locations until after spring vacation (Hospitality). Sat-Sun 12-20 March Spring vacation. Limited dining locations March 14-17 (Hospitality). Monday 21 March Classes resume. Hospitality Services dining locations open for service (Hospitality). Wednesday 23 March Last for degree candidates and faculty to order invitations and academic regalia at the bookstore. 5:00 p.m., Midterm grades due via Raiderlink. April Click to Expand Friday 1 April Last day for graduate degree candidates to defend theses/dissertations. Last day for master's non-thesis students to complete comprehensive evaluations for the master's degree. Thursday 7 April 3:00 p.m., First day for fall 2022 advance registration for currently enrolled students (continues through April 26). Friday 8 April Last day for graduate degree candidates to submit to the Graduate School the final PDF of thesis/dissertation. Last day for graduate degree candidates to submit the Oral Defense and Thesis-Dissertation Approval Form. Last day for M.M. and D.M.A. candidates to post the PDFs of recital programs to the ETD website and submit recordings of recitals to the Graduate School. Friday 15 April Last day to remove grades of I, PR, or CR in the Graduate School. This does not apply to the PR/CR received on a previous thesis or dissertation enrollment. Monday 18 April No Classes. University employees on duty. Select dining locations open for service (Hospitality). Wednesday 26 April Last day of advance registration for fall 2022. Last day for graduate degree candidates to pay thesis-dissertation fee posted to Banner account. Official reports due to Graduate School on Interdisciplinary Portfolio for the master's degree (non-thesis students). Official reports due to Graduate School on results of final comprehensive evaluations. Wednesday 27 April Open registration for fall 2022 begins. Last day to declare pass/fail intentions. Last day for student-initiated drop on MyTech with academic penalty (counts against drop limit). All drops are the responsibility of the student. Last day to withdraw from the university. Although withdrawal can be processed until this date, all tuition and fees related to the registration are due in full and no refunds will be issued. Thurs-Wed 28-4 April-May Period of no examinations except for makeup exams or scheduled lab exams. Friday 29 April Last day for undergraduate degree candidates to remove grades of I and PR. May Click to Expand Monday 2 May Raiderlink available for grading (degree candidate grades due at noon May 11). Tuesday 3 May Last day of classes. Wednesday 4 May Individual study day. Late night pancakes available for residents living on campus (Hospitality). Thurs-Tues 5-10 May Final examinations. Tuesday 10 May Spring semester ends. Wednesday 11 May Move Out. Noon, grades due for graduating students via Raiderlink. Last day for most dining locations (Hospitality). 10:00 a.m., Residence halls close. Degree candidates may occupy residence hall rooms until 10:00 a.m. Saturday, May 14 (Housing). Fri-Sat 13-14 May Commencement. Schedule of ceremonies can be found at (Commencement). Degree candidates may occupy residence hall rooms until 10:00 a.m. Saturday. Monday 16 May 5:00 p.m., Final grades due via Raiderlink. Wednesday 25 May 95% payment of mandatory tuition and fees or enrollment in a payment plan due for Intersession, Early Summer, or Full Summer. Registrations after this date require immediate payment or enrollment in a payment plan. Sunday 29 May Move In. 10:00 a.m., Residence halls open for occupancy (Move In). Select Hospitality Services dining locations open for summer service (Hospitality). Tuesday 31 May Faculty on duty. May Intersession 11 - 27 June Click to Expand Wednesday 1 June Classes begin. Thursday 2 June Last day for student-initiated addition of a course on MyTech. Courses may be added until June 6 with advisor and instructor permission. Monday 6 June Last day for student-initiated drop on MyTech without academic penalty (drop does not count against drop limit) for Early Summer. All drops are the responsibility of the student. Last day to drop a course and have course charges removed for Early Summer and Full Summer. Students who drop to 0 hours are considered to be a withdrawal. Financial penalties apply for withdrawals after June 6. Last day to withdraw from the university for Early Summer or Full Summer without financial penalty. Note: Withdrawal is not an option if a course has been completed within the summer term (Intersession, Early, Full or Late). For more information visit (Student Business Services) and (Withdrawal Dates). Last day for doctoral and master's thesis students to file a defense notification form. Last day for degree candidates to order invitations and academic regalia at the bookstore. Last day to change major and/or transfer between colleges for the current term. Tuesday 7 June Student-initiated drop made on or after this date for Early or Full summer counts against drop limit. All drops are the responsibility of the student. Wednesday 8 June Last day to withdraw from the university for Full Summer and receive partial financial credit. For more information visit (Student Business Services). Note: Withdrawal is not an option if a course has been completed within the summer term (Intersession, Early, Full, or Late). Friday 10 June Last day for graduate degree candidates to file with the Graduate School an application to graduate. Monday 27 June Last day for student-initiated drop on MyTech with academic penalty (counts against drop limit) for Early Summer. All drops are the responsibility of the student. Last day to withdraw from the university for Early Summer (not Full Summer). Although withdrawal can be processed until this date, all tuition and fees related to the registration are due in full and no refunds will be issued. Last day for undergraduate degree candidates to remove grades of I and PR. Last day to declare pass/fail intentions. Last day for master's non-thesis degree candidates to complete the comprehensive evaluation. Last day for graduate degree candidates to defend theses/dissertations. Tuesday 28 June Raiderlink available for grading. 95% payment of mandatory tuition and fees or enrollment in a payment plan due for Late Summer. Registrations after this date require immediate payment or enrollment in a payment plan. Thursday 30 June Last day of classes. July Click to Expand Fri-Sat 1-2 July Final examinations. Saturday 2 July Move Out. Early Summer term ends. Students without room reservations for Late Summer or Full Summer must vacate residence hall rooms by 10:00 a.m. Sunday 3 July Move In. 10:00 a.m., Residence halls open for Late Summer occupancy. Select Hospitality Services dining locations open for summer service (Hospitality). Monday 4 July Independence Day. University Holiday. Modified dining hours (Hospitality). Tuesday 5 July 5:00 p.m., Final grades due via Raiderlink. Faculty on duty. Classes begin. Last day for graduate degree candidates to submit to the ETD website the final PDF of thesis/dissertation. Last day for graduate degree candidates to submit the Oral Defense and Thesis-Dissertation Approval Form. Wednesday 6 July Last day for student-initiated addition of a course on MyTech. Courses may be added until July 8 with advisor and instructor permission. Friday 8 July Last day for student-initiated drop on MyTech without academic penalty (drop does not count against drop limit) for Late Summer. All drops are the responsibility of the student. Last day to drop a course and have course charges removed for Late Summer. Students who wish to drop to 0 hours must submit a withdrawal online (Withdrawal Information). Financial penalties apply for withdrawals after July 8. Last day to withdraw from the university for Late Summer without financial penalty. For more information see (Withdrawal Dates). Note: Withdrawal is not an option if a course has been completed within the summer term (Intersession, Early, Full, or Late). Official reports due to Graduate School on Interdisciplinary Portfolio for the master's degree (non-thesis students). Official reports due to Graduate School on results of final comprehensive evaluations. Last day to remove grades of I, PR, or CR in the Graduate School. This does not apply to the PR/CR received on a previous thesis or dissertation enrollment. Last day for graduate degree candidates to pay thesis-dissertation fee posted to Banner account. Last day for M.M. and D.M.A. candidates to post the PDFs of recital programs to the ETD website and to submit recordings of recitals to the Graduate School. Last day to change major and/or transfer between colleges for the current term. Saturday 9 July Student-initiated drop made on or after this date counts against drop limit. All drops are the responsibility of the student. August Click to Expand Monday 1 August Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the university for Full or Late Summer. Although withdrawal can be processed until this date, all tuition and fees related to the registration are due in full and no refunds will be issued. Note: Withdrawal is not an option if a course has been completed within the summer term (Intersession, Early, Full, or Late). Last day for undergraduate degree candidates to remove grades of I and PR. Last day to declare pass/fail intentions. Tuesday 2 August Raiderlink available for grading. Wednesday 3 August Last day of classes. Thur-Fri 4-5 August Final examinations for second term. Late Summer and Full Summer parts of term end. Saturday 6 August Move Out. Commencement. Schedule of ceremonies can be found at (Commencement). Last day for most summer dining locations (Hospitality). Students without room reservations for fall 2022 must vacate residence hall rooms by 10:00 a.m. (Housing). Monday 8 August 5:00 p.m., Final grades due via Raiderlink. Back to Top Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Official Publications Address Texas Tech Downtown Center Room 220 Email officialpublications@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 23, 2022 1:41 PM Official Publications Academic Calendar Course Information Official Publications Course Information Back Course Descriptions Class Schedule Evening & Weekend Courses Publications Official Publications Publications Back University Catalog Law School Catalog Catalog PDF Faculty Directory Archive of Publications Faculty Resources Official Publications Faculty Resources Back Faculty Handbook Curriculog Curriculum Management Help Additional Resources TTU Home Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index