Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Menu Search TTU Home Who We Are The J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts (TCVPA) is the beating heart of Texas Tech University. We are a creative community with the resources of a world-class public university. Our students from all over the world shine with Texas-sized ambition, curiosity, and compassion. Our college cultivates confidence-building artistic journeys with an infinite number of destinations. We are theatrical sound designers, independent filmmakers, and modern dance teachers. We are gallery owners, experimental sculptors, and Chicano art historians. We are symphony conductors, opera singers, and Broadway performers. We are researchers exploring the intersection of the arts with multiple disciplines. Our schools provide a supportive visual and performing arts education. New students join a community of 1,100 arts-obsessed undergraduate and graduate students—including DMA and PhD candidates. The arts are relevant, critical, and essential to contemporary life. An education in the arts inspires students to communicate through artistic tradition while embracing and creating innovative technologies as vehicles for individual expression and social change. School of Art School of Music School of Theatre & Dance College Highlights Latest TCVPA News Dr. Martin Camacho Dr. Martin Camacho introduces himself and offers students of the J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts a gift.View Video Read More Disha Ganjegunte's talk show “A New Disha” Read More School of Theatre & Dance faculty and alumni discuss the ramifications COVID-19 has had on performance culture. Read More Theatre & Dance students share what it's like to be BIPOC performers in a classically white medium, and how they're changing the status quo at Texas Tech. Watch Episode Texas Tech Associate Professor of Art and portrait maker Ghislaine Fremaux joins host Ricki Castanieto to discuss her body or work. CLICK FOR MORE NEWS TCVPA Events 13-17 Jun School of Art Pre-College Immersion Program Provides a college art experience for high school students receiving one-on-one training from TTU faculty.more information 21-25 Jun TTU All-State Choir Camp School of Music choir camp for high school students.more information 3-9 Jul TTU Band & Orchestra Camp School of Music band camp for high school studentsmore information Spotlight There is a reason why we do what we do. With lighting, I always like to amp up environments. Usually for me it's in color. I love saturation, and I love emotion. Jason Lynch BFA Theatre Design 2009 As a composition major, taking composition lessons has been integral in how I write my music and develop ideas for music. Noah Alonzo MM Composition 2022 I'm a production coordinator for a company called VIVA Creative. They work with high profile companies and recently sent me to Singapore to work for a company that rhymes with Gloomberg. Ian Olsen MFA Design 2021 We're proving that no matter what we're going through, we can still do what we love. Laureen Karichu BFA Acting 2022 College Exclusive Degrees Bachelor of Arts in Interdisciplinary Arts Studies This interdisciplinary Bachelor's degree allows students to study multiple fields in the arts in equivalent depth, preparing them for new career opportunities that integrate several artistic disciplines. Bachelor of Arts in Interdisciplinary Arts Studies Program Information Fine Arts Doctoral Program An interdisciplinary doctoral program leading to the Ph.D. degree in fine arts is offered by the faculties in the TCVPA. This unique program emphasizes interdisciplinary among the arts and academic and artistic excellence. Fine Arts Doctoral Program Information Accreditations Academic programs in the TCVPA are accredited by the following: National Association of Schools of Art and Design National Association of Schools of Music National Association of Schools of Theatre National Association of Schools of Dance Additionally, the TCVPA participates in the accreditation process for the university and its teacher education programs: Southern Association of Colleges and Schools National Council for the Accreditation of Teacher Education National Association of Schools of Dance Podcasts for All Things Visual & Performing Arts and Texas Tech J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Like J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on FacebookLike J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on Facebook Follow J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on twitterFollow J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on twitter Subscribe to J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on YouTubeSubscribe to J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on YouTube Follow J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on InstagramFollow J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on Instagram Connect with J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on LinkedInConnect with J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on LinkedIn Address Holden Hall - Rm 103, 1011 Boston Ave., Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.0700 Email talk@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 26, 2022 11:51 AM J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Programs J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Back Undergraduate J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Undergraduate Back Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Fine Arts Bachelor of Music Interdisciplinary Arts Studies Teacher Education Programs Minors Certificates Graduate J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Graduate Back Master of Arts Master of Art Education Master of Fine Arts Master of Music Master of Music Education Doctor of Musical Arts Ph.D. in Fine Arts Ph.D. in Music Education Certificates Outreach & Engagement J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Outreach & Engagement Back All-state Choir Camp Band & Orchestra Camp Pre-College Immersion Program Saturday Morning Art Project WildWind Performance Lab Admissions J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Back Apply Now New Undergraduate Students J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts New Undergraduate Students Back Orientation Checklist Red Raider Orientation Academic Checklist Student Organizations Fine Arts Learning Community Meet Our Ambassadors Plan Your Visit New Graduate Students Financial Aid J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Financial Aid Back Scholarships Portfolio & Audition Requirements J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Back School of Art School of Music School of Theatre & Dance About J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Back Leadership J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Back Meet the Dean Associate Dean for Faculty, Research, and Creative Activity Associate Dean for Students & Curricula Dean's Office Directory Faculty Awards & Honors Mission & Vision Galleries & Performance Spaces J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Galleries & Performance Spaces Back The CH Foundation The Legacy of Christine DeVitt Black Box Theatre Creative Movement Studio Hemmle Recital Hall Live Stream Landmark Arts: Exhibits & Speaker Programs Maegden Theatre MusicHub Moment SOA Satellite Gallery at Charles Adams Studio Project This Week in Art Student Facilities J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Back Computer Lab (School of Music) School of Art 3D Annex School of Art Lab School of Art Transmedia Lab School of Art Visual Research Center (VRC) Required Covid Testing J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Required Covid Testing Back Regular Testing for Performance, Production, and Ensembles Requirements for Individual Participants FAQs about testing Exemption Documentation Submission Form Schedule Testing Appointment Student Organizations Careers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Research J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Back National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) Research Lab Performing Arts Research Lab (PeARL) Research and Creative Activity Resources J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Research and Creative Activity Resources Back Faculty Research and Creativity Activity Awards Student Research and Creative Activity Awards News & Events J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Back College School of Art School of Music School of Theatre & Dance Media Kit Faculty/Staff/Student Resources J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Faculty/Staff/Student Resources Back Faculty/Staff Current Students Alumni Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index