Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Community-engaged research to monitor Ithaca’s water supply Posted on By College of Engineering Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X [WATER RUSHING] ROXANNA JOHNSTON: People do take drinking water for granted. [MUSIC PLAYING] We usually don't hear from people unless there's a problem. And in 2016, during the drought, we heard from people. MATTHEW REID: So this project is about the high levels of manganese which are in the water column in the Ithaca Reservoir during summertime. And this was something that I actually first heard about from an undergraduate in my class several years ago who had a friend who was interning at the water treatment plant. And he was saying that they had this new problem. They're finding that there's a lot of manganese in the water. And they don't really know why, and they don't really know what to do about it ROXANNA JOHNSTON: Dr. Reid heard about our manganese issues. MATTHEW REID: So in the summer of 2021, we had a very active field season of collecting samples at the Ithaca Reservoir. ROXANNA JOHNSTON: You would take this sampler that you can control when it closes. You put it at different depths in the same column of water. And you pull up that discrete piece of water and then analyze it for the amount and types of manganese in it. MATTHEW REID: We put together a sort of water quality monitoring campaign to track concentrations of manganese in the reservoir with the ultimate goal of producing a predictive model. ROXANNA JOHNSTON: Yi Sang is one of the lead folks on the grant, and he's a PhD student. And this developing this manganese model. YI SANG: Here is a model. It can show the predicted manganese concentration and the upper and lower confidence level. MATTHEW REID: That the treatment plan staff could use to predict, a day or two ahead, what the manganese concentrations would be. They have to make decisions in real time about how to treat the water. [MUSIC PLAYING] This was great. I think a lot of the students and myself had spent over a year and not really being able to work in teams, not really being able to get out and do hands-on work. So it was wonderful for everyone to be able to do hands-on research together outside. So this was something that was done in really close collaboration with the treatment plant staff. We received funding from the Engaged Cornell program to support the work of undergraduates in this community-engaged research project. OLIVIA PIETZ: Research experience in environmental engineering kind of made me realize that this is a path that I want to take with my life, and I really enjoyed the experience. And I think I learned a lot from all the people that I worked with and had a lot of fun, too. Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. To help the Ithaca Water Treatment Plant, Cornell engineering students have developed a forecasting tool – named ARIMA, the Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average – to manage manganese in the reservoir. More About What to watch next surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×