Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Men of Color National Summit Men of Color National Summit Building Bridges to Success for African-American and Hispanic Males Save the Date: March 28-29, 2023 at the Greenville Convention Center Our Mission The mission of the Clemson University Men of Color National Summit is to close the opportunity gap for African American and Hispanic males, from cradle to career. Bringing together approximately 2,400 high school and college students, business professionals, educators, government officials and community leaders from around the country, the summit will emphasize the importance of education, best practices and choices to increase high school and college graduation rates. The national conference will lead to awareness of the changing U.S. demographics by enhancing the experience of men of color through involvement and engagement, preparing them for a global mindset. Summit Themes Career and professional development Entrepreneurship Masculinity/personal identity Retention rates, graduation and student achievement Social/community engagement Pre-Summit Theme Pathways to Thriving For additional information, email menofcolorsummit@clemson.edu . 2022 Men of Color Summit Stories Clemson’s fifth annual Men of Color National Summit Clemson hosts events aimed at closing the opportunity gap 2022 Men of Color Summit Testimonials "This summit was wonderful and a great opportunity to learn more about the tools needed to be successful as a person of color in this country." “It was inspiring! I was able to network and seek encouragement to uplift my journey!” “It’s a very beneficial conference for students and adults to inspire and support professional growth for young men of color.” “The summit was excellently planned and engaging from beginning to end. The presenters were phenomenal!” “Good content, great exposure, wonderful experience for the young men.” Men of Color Summit on Facebook Men of Color Summit on Twitter Men of Color Summit on Instagram Summit Photo Archive 2022 Summit 2022 VIP Reception 2021 VIP Reception 2020 Summit The Office of Inclusion and Equity is proud to promote these endowments that enhance opportunities for underrepresented groups at Clemson — the Harvey B. Gantt Scholarship and the Leon E. Wiles Diversity Endowment. Presented by National Media Sponsor Home 2022 Speakers 2022 Sponsorship Opportunities 2022 Summit Sponsors Women's Roundtable Pre-Summit Tiger Alliance Leadership Team Clemson Leading the Way Inclusion and Equity Related Links Diversity and Inclusion Homepage Access and Equity Alumni Affinity Groups Diversity in Academics Gantt Multicultural Center Global Engagement Graduate Diversity Fellowships Student Accessibility Services Supplier Diversity Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram