Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Supporting Students with Chronic Medical Conditions and Disabilities Supporting Students with Chronic Medical Conditions and Disabilities A team at CPS has a special interest in supporting students with chronic medical conditions and disabilities. All of the professionals at Counseling and Psychological Services are qualified to address the full range of concerns students bring to counseling. However, our counselors do have various areas of special interest or experience. CPS clinicians on this team have experience and training working with individuals who are living with significant medical conditions and chronic health concerns. Members of this team offer support for students who are navigating the challenges academics and personal concerns while also managing the emotions and stress of their health conditions. CPS team members assist with health-promoting behaviors and decreasing health-related risk-taking behaviors ; supporting those with acute conditions and/or new diagnoses, as well as establishing adherence to medical treatment and coping with symptoms.  If your situation is urgent and a particular counselor with whom you would like to work is not immediately available, it is generally not recommended to delay seeking assistance. Rather, it is best to initiate treatment with a counselor who is more immediately available; you are always welcome to transfer to a different counselor at a later date. Expand all Collapse all Supporting Students with Chronic Medical Conditions and Disabilities Team Andrew Colitz, Clinical Psychologist Dr. Colitz is interested in helping students attain a higher quality of life by managing the complexity of psychological and physical distress due to medical illnesses. He also has experience working with medically unexplained symptoms that lack an identifiable cause (such as persistent headaches, chronic tiredness or pain, heart palpitations, gastric issues, or musculoskeletal discomfort). Working towards exploring relevant psychosocial factors in a way that acknowledges the physical symptoms as real can provide a framework towards greater well-being and healing. Eduvigis Cruz-Arrieta, Clinical Psychologist To learn more about Dr. Cruz-Arrieta, read her bio. Motoni Fong Hodges, Senior Clinical Psychologist To learn more about Dr. Hodges, read her bio. Anne Goldfield, Associate Director for Outreach To learn more about Dr. Goldfield, read her bio. Victoria Grosso, Senior Clinical Psychologist To learn more about Dr. Grosso, read her bio. Wardeh Hattab, Licensed Social Worker Wardeh has history in hospital social work including inpatient care and emergency treatment. Her interests include working with children and adults navigating a chronic condition while pursuing academic, relationship, and career goals. She also works with adults navigating sex and fertility challenges while managing medical conditions. She obtained the Advanced Certificate in Oncology Social Work from University of Pennsylvania in 2019 to enhance her practice with patients facing both chronic and life-limiting conditions. She can understand Arabic at a basic level. David Hittson, Clinical Psychologist To learn more about Dr. Hittson, read his bio. Adam Johnson, Clinical Psychologist To learn more about Dr. Johnson, read his bio. Arielle Toporovsky, Clinical Psychologist To learn more about Dr. Toporovsky, read her bio. Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Health Unit Counseling and Psychological Services Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close