Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America Home About Events News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Site Navigation Home About History Staff Advisors Postdoctoral, Faculty, and Graduate Fellows Visiting Faculty Practitioner Fellows Message from the Director Location & Contact Information Annual Reports CSREA Q&A with Tricia Rose Events Past Events Co-sponsorship Requests Featured Events Around Campus Signature Series Underlying Conditions The Third Rail Series Writing for a Broken World What I Am Thinking About Now "First Works" Series Race at the Center of the Humanities New Book Talks STEM Conversation Series Dr. Jean Shim Yun Lecture Series Graduate Professionalization Workshop Series Critical Conversations Summer Reading Series News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Manuscript Workshops Applications received on a rolling basis to support faculty schedules. CSREA invites tenured and other long-term faculty whose scholarship focuses on race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity in the United States and work that connects the U.S. to related transnational contexts, to participate in the Faculty Manuscript Workshop Program. The Faculty Manuscript Workshop Program will feature a half-day session with Brown faculty and up to three invited external scholars/experts in the field who will be asked to review and comment on manuscripts or major peer-review journal articles. Should we have a robust pool of applications, junior faculty manuscripts will take priority in the application process. CSREA will work with the faculty member to help identify and contact reviewers, distribute the manuscript, compensate participants, schedule and pay for reviewers’ travel (if applicable), and provide the author with recorded and transcribed commentary from the workshop. ELIGIBILITY Any tenured or long-term Brown University faculty working on a writing project related to the study of race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity in the U.S. and work that connects the U.S. to related transnational contexts. APPLICATION PROCESS Applicants must complete this application form to be fully considered. Applications will be reviewed by the CSREA Faculty Advisory Board (FAB). Other relevant faculty within or external to Brown may be consulted at the discretion of the FAB. DEADLINE Applications are accepted on a rolling basis to support faculty schedules, however, application reviews for the 2022 calendar year will be concluded by October 3, 2022. Questions? Please contact CSREA Associate Director, Stéphanie Larrieux. Application Form Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Stay Connected Subscribe to our newsletter Visit Our YouTube Channel The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) Brown University Box 2032 96 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5775 Fax: 401-863-5784 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top