Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Academics, Tuition & Aid You are here Home Life at Temple Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy Academics, Tuition & Aid Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Temple understands that students and faculty may have questions about classes, tuition and more. The university provides the tools and resources needed to support students’ learning objectives and help faculty with course instruction. Following the announcement from the city of Philadelphia that masks will no longer be required indoors, Temple University is reinstating its previous mask guidance. Effective April 22, 2022, masking will again be optional in most campus spaces. Read the full announcement and refer to the updated university mask guidance below. Be sure to check temple.edu/coronavirus for updates. Contents University Apps and TechnologyUniversity Libraries AccessInternational Campuses and Study AbroadFAQ: Academics Zoom Zones Zoom Rooms or Zoom Zones are designated spaces for students to use when they need to log on to an online class between in-person classes or when they need an on-campus place to study. No reservations are needed to use a seat or desk. As Zoom Zones have multiple stations, students are encouraged to have headphones so as to not disturb other students using the space. Available Zoom Zones spaces at Main Campus, Ambler Campus and Temple University Center City are listed below. Hours of operation for Zoom Zones depend on the building in which it is located. Main Campus Zoom zones in Paley are available Monday through Thursday from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. and Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. G3 202 203 204 301 30 Zoom zones in Ritter Annex are available 24 hours a day, Monday through Sunday. 319 619 Ambler Campus Learning Center Room 106, Ambler Campus Technology Center Learning Center Room 305, Ambler Campus Technology Center Temple University Center City Room 413 is available for use as a Zoom zone from 8:30 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Thursday and 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Friday. University Apps and Technology The university partners with and provides access to various apps and other technology for students, faculty and staff, intended to help access services while adhering to the four public health pillars. Those apps and services include Qless, for getting in line, virtually, for walk-in appointments at Student Financial Services; reserving study spaces at Charles Library or the TECH Center; OWLab, for accessing software you don’t have on your personal computer; 25Live, for booking a space for your student organization; and various health apps to monitor how you’re feeling, accessed via TUportal. In addition, changes have been implemented at the TECH Center, including hours of operation, breakout rooms, and shared software and laptops. University Libraries Access Charles Library on Main Campus, the Charles E. Krausz Library Temple’s Ambler Library, the Ginsburg Health Sciences Library and the Law Library are all open. Safety measures have been implemented to help protect patrons as they access these facilities. We also encourage users to take advantage of the available virtual resources, which include digitized collections and e-books. For more information about the reopening, please check the university libraries website for details on what to expect when you visit. International Campuses and Study Abroad Decisions about all university-sponsored, -connected or -funded international travel by students, faculty and staff are made based on international, national, state and local guidance. See the latest information on Education Abroad programs and our international campuses. /coronavirus/work-life-faculty-staff/faculty-teaching-information Faculty Teaching Information Read about how Temple is supporting our faculty members, including resources for online instruction and tips for adhering to healthy behaviors in the classroom. Access resources and tools to help faculty members with instruction FAQ: Academics Are there new attendance rules due to the pandemic? Since Temple is moving to primarily in-person instruction, the university has returned to regular, pre-pandemic attendance expectations. These are set by instructors, programs or departments, and are clearly indicated on your course syllabus for each course. To achieve course learning goals, students must attend and participate in classes, according to instructors’ requirements. However, if you feel unwell or if you are under quarantine or in isolation because you have been exposed to the virus or tested positive for it, you should not come to campus or attend in-person classes or activities. It is the student’s responsibility to contact their instructors to create a plan for participation and engagement in the course as soon as they are able to do so, and to make a plan to complete all assignments in a timely fashion, when illness delays their completion. What will happen if a student is unable to attend in-person classes due to illness? If students are unable to attend class or participate in course activities, they are expected to take the following steps. Notify instructors of the absence, in advance of the absence if possible. Call Temple’s Student Health Services (215-204-7500). Proof of evaluation will be provided to the student. Keep up with coursework, as much as possible. Participate in class activities and submit assignments electronically, to the extent possible and as directed by the instructor. Reach out to their instructor if illness will require late submission or other modifications to deadlines or work requirements. Work with their instructors to reschedule exams, labs and other critical academic activities, if necessary. What will happen if a student is unable to attend online classes due to illness? If they are unable to attend an online class or participate in course activities, students are expected to take the following steps. Notify instructors of the inability to participate, in advance if possible. Call Temple’s Student Health Services (215-204-7500). Proof of evaluation will be provided to the student. Keep up with coursework, as much as possible. Reach out to the instructor if illness will require late submission or other modifications to deadlines or work requirements. Work with their instructors to reschedule any synchronous exams, labs and other critical academic activities, if necessary. If it is not possible to continue active engagement in a course due to illness or other COVID-19-related circumstance, students may opt to withdraw from the course or accept an incomplete. Is it possible for students to change a class in which they are enrolled from in person to online or hybrid? While it is not possible to change a specific course, students may search for classes under Browse Classes within the Student Tools section of TUportal. Use the Advanced Search feature and scroll to the Instructional Method area to find classes offered online, in a hybrid format or in person. If open seats are available, students may change sections during the add/drop period. Will students have access to library or other campus resources whether they’re physically on campus or not? Yes. Temple University Libraries offers a number of remote student support services for students unable to attend in-person classes, and campus resources for students are listed in the TUportal and are generally available in person and in many cases remotely. Anyone who plans to visit in person should review this list of things to expect, including the implementation of our public health pillars and librarian visits by appointment only, when you arrive. Back to Main Coronavirus Page Go back to Life at TempleMore in Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.