COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Applied Economics, Master's Master'sEconomics All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Economics A Master of Arts (MA) in applied economics from Wichita State’s AACSB-accredited Barton School of Business offers you a general economics track and three specialized tracks to choose from—economic analysis, financial economics or international economics. All tracks will equip you with a broad understanding of the overall economic environment, which will help you as you advance your career or pursue your Ph.D. in economics. Learn how applied economics is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Have an undergraduate degree from a regionally accredited institution Admission is based primarily on GPA and background in economics Admission to full standing requires at 2.75 GPA for the last 60 credit hours and for courses in economics and required mathematics The Graduate Record Examination is not required For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum All tracks require either a thesis (30 credit hours) or an independent research project and an additional course in the student’s area of interest (33 credit hours). The MA degree in applied economics is typically completed in four semesters. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree in economics from Wichita State's Barton School will help you take the next step in your career—while opening doors to new possibilities. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Business Administration (Master's) Accountancy (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©