Skip to main content Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Business Minors Canfield Business Honors Integrated MPA Student Life Get Involved Canfield Business Honors Challenge Yourself Graduate Back Graduate Master's Programs Master's Programs MPA – Accounting MS Business Analytics MS Finance MS Health Care Transformation MS IT & Management MS Marketing MS Technology Commercialization MBA Programs MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Weekend MBA – Dallas Weekend MBA – Houston Doctoral Take the Next Step Explore Our Graduate Programs Centers & Initiatives Back Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives More than 20 centers and initiatives bring professionals and academics together to advance the future of business. Each one focuses on a critical part of industry, from supply chain management to blockchain and beyond. View All Centers KBH Energy Center for Business, Law, and Policy Supply Chain Management Center AIM Investment Conference Register and Attend Faculty & Research Back Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Research Faculty Directory Departments Departments Accounting Business, Government, & Society Finance Information, Risk, & Operations Management Management Marketing Steven Kachelmeier Named Accounting Chair Read the Full Story Recruiters & Corporations Back Recruiters & Corporations Recruiters Corporations Events Contact & Visit Why McCombs Recruit With Us Learn More Corporate Partners Learn More Alumni Back Alumni Benefits Community Events Awards Give Poised Pioneer Peggy's Story Texas McCombs Presents RSVP About Back About The McCombs Difference Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Invest in McCombs Commencement Contact Coronavirus Life at McCombs Meet the Dean Our Leadership McCombs Centennial Celebrate With Us News & Events Directory Give Contact Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Business Minors Canfield Business Honors Integrated MPA Student Life Get Involved Canfield Business Honors Challenge Yourself Graduate Back Graduate Master's Programs Master's Programs MPA – Accounting MS Business Analytics MS Finance MS Health Care Transformation MS IT & Management MS Marketing MS Technology Commercialization MBA Programs MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Weekend MBA – Dallas Weekend MBA – Houston Doctoral Take the Next Step Explore Our Graduate Programs Centers & Initiatives Back Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives More than 20 centers and initiatives bring professionals and academics together to advance the future of business. Each one focuses on a critical part of industry, from supply chain management to blockchain and beyond. View All Centers KBH Energy Center for Business, Law, and Policy Supply Chain Management Center AIM Investment Conference Register and Attend Faculty & Research Back Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Research Faculty Directory Departments Departments Accounting Business, Government, & Society Finance Information, Risk, & Operations Management Management Marketing Steven Kachelmeier Named Accounting Chair Read the Full Story Recruiters & Corporations Back Recruiters & Corporations Recruiters Corporations Events Contact & Visit Why McCombs Recruit With Us Learn More Corporate Partners Learn More Alumni Back Alumni Benefits Community Events Awards Give Poised Pioneer Peggy's Story Texas McCombs Presents RSVP About Back About The McCombs Difference Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Invest in McCombs Commencement Contact Coronavirus Life at McCombs Meet the Dean Our Leadership McCombs Centennial Celebrate With Us News & Events Press Releases Media Mentions Events Speakers and Conferences Alumni and Friends Events BBA Events McCombs Magazine Online News and EventsEvents Full Calendar Find the latest events here. May 9 – 17, 2022 Final Exam period Monday, May 9 - Tuesday, May 17 All Day May 17, 2022 Knowledge To Go Webinar: "Future of Work" with Bukky Akinsanmi and Greg Hallman As we enter the third year of the COVID pandemic, employees and firms have adapted to work from home while they are finally planning on a return to the office. The pandemic has brought seismic changes to the use of real estate, including both firms use of office space and workers use of their homes as home offices. Join us for an informative webinar on how firms have dealt with changes in their use of office space and how they manage employees. Dr. Hallman will discuss the effects of the pandemic on office buildings and investment in office assets by real estate investors. Professor Akinsanmi Oyedeji will discuss how managers have adapted and can adapt to the new rules of work such as employees working from home, employees coming back to the office, and the effectiveness of hybrid work with some days in the office and some at home. RSVP now! Time: 12-1 p.m., CT Location Name: Online Via Zoom Cost Per Person: Free Register Now May 18, 2022 Take Your Seat: Expert Advice for Joining a Board presented by Blue Steps BlueSteps will be hosting a global panel of executive recruiters and will be discussing how to secure your first board seat, including how the board recruitment process works, what to showcase on your board résumé, and how to position yourself as an ideal board candidate. Register here. Time: 11-12 p.m., CT Location: Online via Zoom Cost: Free Register Now May 19, 2022 McCombs Houston Chapter Monthly Lunch Speaker Series The McCombs Houston Chapter is excited to announce that the monthly speaker lunches are back! Please register today and join fellow Houston McCombs Alumni for our May lunch featuring speaker David Miller, Chief Financial Officer of Valencia Hotel Group and University of Texas McCombs alumnus. Registration and networking will be followed by lunch and an interactive and informal presentation from David Miller. David A. Miller joined Valencia Hotel Group in January 2008 as its Chief Financial Officer. As CFO, Mr. Miller leads all aspects of the company’s financial activities; including accounting and reporting, strategic financial planning and analysis, commercial and legal compliance, internal controls, treasury management and project finance, mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures, risk management, tax, and stakeholder relations. Time: 11:30 a.m.-1 p.m., CT Location: Cadillac Bar 1802 Shepherd Drive Houston, TX 77007 Cost Per Person: $30 - includes lunch Register Now May 21, 2022 The 2022 Texas Chili Cook-off Fellow Longhorn alumni and friends, the time has come at long last for The Texas Chili Cook-Off to return to New York City, bigger, louder, and tastier than EVER! Register now for this exciting event! Presented exclusively by the Texas Exes New York Chapter, the Texas Chili Cook-off is an all-you-can-eat (chili and queso), all-you-can-drink from your favorite Texas-based beverage partners, 5 HOUR event. Amateur and restaurant teams will compete for the titles of Chili Champions and provide you with food in the process. You will get to help decide the winners. Time: 1-6 p.m., ET (12-5 p.m., CT) Location: Industry City 220 36th St. Brooklyn, New York 11232 Cost Per Person: See website for details Register Now May 22, 2022 Summer Strategies: Be Interview-Ready by August David Ohrvall is an experienced and gifted executive and a successful entrepreneur. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania with degrees in economics, finance, and marketing, and earned an MBA at The Wharton School. Ohrvall has a proven business track record of delivering excellence for over 25 years and is a leader in Case Interview preparation. Register here to see all the details and to schedule the dates and times of his Spring Series into your calendar. You’ll receive the schedule, training, tools, community support and encouragement to get that offer. You just need to bring the motivation! Register here. Time: 11:00 a.m. CT Location: Online via Zoom Cost: Free Register Now May 26, 2022 The Soul of Business: Leading with Impact and an Entrepreneurial Mindset As part of the Texas McCombs Presents series, Austin-based social entrepreneur Brett Hurt, BBA ’94, CEO of data.world, joins Dean Lil Mills in conversation to discuss the future of work, corporate responsibility, and how entrepreneurial traits can help anyone navigate uncertain territory successfully. Hurt is the author of The Entrepreneur's Essentials and is featured in the Spring 2022 issue of McCombs Magazine. Hurt is featured in the latest issue of McCombs Magazine and released his newest book, The Entrepreneur's Essentials, earlier this month with proceeds going to The University of Texas at Austin’s Kendra Scott Women's Entrepreneurial Leadership Institute (KS WELI). Read more about the book at TheEntrepreneursEssentials.com. Time: 12:00 - 12:45 p.mm CT Location: Online via Zoom RSVP Now June 15, 2022 Job Search Steps for the Recent Graduate Workshop Whether you’re graduating in a few weeks or actively looking after a short stint in the real world, it’s never a bad idea to develop your job search skills. In a recent survey, 91% of employed adults said they look for jobs at least a few times a year, so for many people, job searching is a regular activity. This fast and efficient lunchtime workshop will review the top 5 tips for any recent graduate. You’ll have an opportunity to focus on your career goals, learn the latest job search techniques, and leave with a plan. Register here. Time: 12-12:45 p.m., CT Location: Online Via Zoom Cost Per Person: Free Register Now June 27, 2022 Strategies for Managing the Stress of a Job Search Workshop Have you ever felt frustrated and alone during your job search? Have you noticed that job searching draws out more of your insecurities and anxieties? You are not alone! Join us as we share tips and tools to quell your anxieties, strategies to communicate to employers with confidence, and the neuroscience behind what’s happening in your normal brain. Register here. Time: 12-12:45 p.m., CT Location: Online Via Zoom Cost Per Person: Free Register Now Resources McCombs Online Resources (MOR) Webmail Safety at McCombs Intranet Canvas Tech Support My McCombs What's Happening News Events Big Ideas Research Give Now Get in Touch Contact Marketing, Web, and Communications Faculty Directory Staff Directory Give Now (512) 471-5921 2110 Speedway Austin, TX 78712 Rowling Hall 300 W Martin Luther King Jr Blvd Austin, TX 78712 © 2021 McCombs School of Business, The University of Texas at Austin