Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Appointments Same Day Service Same Day Service Expand all Collapse all Alice! Health Promotion Alice! Health Promotion staff are available to talk with students about their health questions and how to access resources. Alice! is a confidential resource and the staff respect and protect the privacy of all conversations. Conversations are solution-oriented and not about therapy or giving medical advice — rather, they are meant to help connect students with information and resources to make informed decisions regarding a broad range of health-related topics. Examples of one-on-one sessions include, but not limited to: Understanding the range of birth control and safer sex options Accessing resources regarding coping with stress Strategies to improve sleep quality Concerns regarding a friend’s alcohol or other drug use Strategies to improve time management Finding reputable resources to better understand a new medical diagnosis Communication strategies to support a friend Alice! Virtual Drop-in Hours For the Spring 2022 term (1/18/22 - 4/29/22), students can connect with Alice! for Health Education conversations during virtual drop-in hours. Tuesday and Wednesday: 5:00 PM – 7:00 PM No drop-in during Summer sessions Starting Monday, May 2, 2022, visits by appointment only - email [email protected] to request. Drop-ins will resume on Tuesday, September 6, 2022. During virtual drop-in hours, click the link below to join the Alice! Zoom waiting room. Drop-ins are first come, first serve. Joining the waiting room puts you in the queue to connect with an Alice! team member. Join via Zoom: https://columbiahealth.zoom.us/j/97380471598 Questions? Email at [email protected]. Can't make drop-in hours? Schedule an appointment with us! Professional staff will make every effort to find a time to meet with students during business hours and to accommodate same-day appointments if feasible. Health education appointments will be through Zoom. A meeting link will be shared upon confirmation of appointment.  Please note: Appointment availability may change due to events and closures.  Counseling and Psychological Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS) offers two same day options to see a mental health provider. These are available to all Columbia students who have paid the full Columbia Health and Related Services Fee. All of our offices operate on a first-come, first-served basis; you may have a brief wait if the counselor is with another student. Problem-Solving drop-in One time conversation to talk about an everyday life concern impacting your emotional well-being. Students meet with a mental health professional to gain clarity and find ways to address a problem. Among the typical problems discussed in these sessions are relationship problems, adjustment to campus life, career concerns, acculturation, or anxiety about academics. These sessions are not intended for students currently working with a CPS counselor, nor as a substitute for traditional counseling. Visit the Problem-Solving drop-in page for hours and locations. Urgent Mental Health Concerns drop-in Walk-in session if you are experiencing high levels of distress. Mondays -Thursdays from 6:00 - 8:00 PM at the CPS office on the 5th floor of Lerner Hall, Room 502. Check-in closes at 7:30 PM. Please note that that these hours are a supplementary support and are not intended to substitute for traditional counseling or other appropriate treatment options. If you are seeking ongoing counseling or psychiatric care, please call 212-854-2878 during regular business hours to arrange treatment planning session that will help guide you to the resource that is right for you. Unforeseen Closures We make every attempt to maintain our posted office hours. However, drop-in offices may be closed due to unforeseen circumstances. If you need to talk to someone, contact Counseling and Psychological Services at 212-854-2878, available 24/7. Disability Services Disability Services offers drop-in hours according to the schedule posted below. DS drop-in hours allow for an individual 15-minute discussion between a DS staff member and a student with a quick or urgent question. Students not yet known to DS as well those already registered are invited to contact DS during drop-in hours. Common reasons for a student not yet known to DS to contact us during drop-in hours may include questions about how to register with Disability Services, to learn more about services and accommodations offered by DS, or if you suspect that you might have a disability or were referred to meet with DS staff and are wondering about next best steps. For students already registered, drop-in hours may be helpful for quick questions around your exam, note-taking, or housing accommodations, to discuss exam rescheduling due to a class conflict, or if you’re having difficulty arranging for accommodations with a professor, teaching assistant (TA), or for a class. To speak with a DS staff member during drop-in hours As a result of precautions to contain COVID-19, drop-in hours will continue to be held virtually for the Summer 2022 semester. To attend drop-in hours virtually, simply call 212-854-2388 or email [email protected] during the hours noted below. When you call, an administrative staff member will ask for your name, phone number, as well as your reason for calling and will share this message with the staff member holding drop-in hours. If you opt to email, add “drop-in” to your subject line and in the body of the email, include your name, phone number, and reason for wishing to speak with the staff member holding drop-in hours. Whether you schedule by call or email, the staff member holding drop-in hours will then call you back within the drop-in period. If you are unable to attend drop-in hours due to an academic conflict or time zone constraints, please know we will be happy to schedule a mutually agreeable appointment outside of drop-in hours. To do so, please contact us at [email protected] with your availability. Do let us know if it is a time-sensitive matter when you provide your availability. We will do our best to accommodate your time preference should it be outside of regular business hours (9:00 AM-5:00 PM ET). Summer 2022 Schedule Drop-in hours will be held from Monday, May 23 through Friday, September 2 during the hours listed below. There will be no drop-in hours on 5/30, 6/20 and 7/4 Mondays 1:00 PM-3:00 PM Tuesdays 9:00 AM-11:00 AM Wednesdays n/a Thursdays 2:00 PM-4:00 PM Fridays 10:00 AM-12:00PM Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) - HIV/STI Testing, Birth Control Education, PrEP/PEP Consultation GHAP services include: HIV testing, prevention & treatment coordination Express Collect STI testing, general information, and risk assessment WHAP (Women's Health Advocacy Project) consultations: information about birth control, menstrual cycle, sexual anatomy and pleasure, regular health screenings, and pregnancy options counseling PrEP & PEP consultations (for HIV prevention) Identity-affirming peer support GHAP provides drop-in hours to chat with an Advocate about any of these topics. Connect with an advocate in person at John Jay Hall, 3rd floor or virtually at https://columbiacuimc.zoom.us/j/8175610718 Spring 2022 Term (1/31/22 - 5/6/22): Mondays: 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM,1:00 PM – 5:00 PM ET Tuesdays: 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM,12:00 PM – 5:00 PM ET Wednesdays: 12:00 PM – 5:00 PM ET Thursdays: 11:00 AM – 5:00 PM ET Fridays: 12:00 PM – 4:00 PM ET Summer 2022 Term (5/9/2022 - 9/2/2022): Monday - Friday: 12:00 PM - 2:00 PM What is the process for Drop-in Hours with GHAP/WHAP? For In Person drop-in hours: Go to the 300 level of Columbia Health in John Jay Hall. At the front desk, fill out a sign-in form and check the box for GHAP or WHAP (sexual and reproductive health). Give it to the receptionist. After a confidential meeting with an Advocate who can order the appropriate screening tests and help answer your questions, you'll have access to the lab which is on the same floor. For virtual drop-in hours: Join the GHAP Zoom Room. Meet virtually with an Advocate who can order the appropriate screening tests, help answer your questions. The Advocate will share instructions for accessing the lab at Columbia Health. Medical Services Urgent or Immediate Assistance During clinic hours, call 212-854-7426. After hours, or on weekends or University holidays, call 212-854-7426 for 24/7 support. In an emergency, call CUEMS/Public Safety at 212-854-5555 if you are on or near campus, or dial 911 if you are off-campus. Sexual Violence Response In-person walk-in at Lerner Hall SVR is pleased to offer in-person, walk-in appointments at the Lerner Hall office. While Lerner Hall is currently closed, however, the SVR office in Lerner is open for walk-ins. Call 212-854-3500 to ask an advocate to meet you at the main entrance (Lerner lobby on campus side) to escort you to the office. Virtual support SVR operates a 24/7, year round, helpline accessible to all students seeking assistance. This support line can be reached 24/7/365 at 212-854-HELP (4357). SVR provides trauma-informed, confidential support through crisis counseling/intervention, advocacy, prevention, and outreach focused on interpersonal violence and harassment. Examples include: Assisting survivors and co-survivors of sexual, intimate partner, and gender-based violence by helping them navigate resources within and outside of the University Accompanying survivors to off campus locations such as New York Police Precincts, Local hospitals, Court, and other support services locations on and off campus. Exploring survivor rights and options while also supporting their individual choices Connecting survivors with support services that they, together with the survivor, identify as being helpful to the survivor's emotional, psychological, familial, residential, and spiritual well-being. Cross-collaboration with other Columbia departments and student groups to facilitate events, workshops and trainings tailored to specific communities across campus Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close