Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator Grant Programs Federal Direct Loan Programs Federal Work-Study Scholarships Summer Aid Dream Loan Chafee Grant State University Grant Middle Class Scholarship Scholarships Cal State Fullerton is pleased to offer a wide variety of scholarships and awards to honor outstanding achievement. Nearly $2 million in scholarships and awards is paid annually at Cal State Fullerton. Students apply for scholarships and are nominated for awards. In addition to scholastic achievement, financial need and other factors may be considered in the selection process. Read and follow the “application procedure” for each scholarship or award in which you are interested. Pay close attention to the scholarship deadlines because different scholarships have different deadlines. Due to the large number of applications received, non-selected applicants are not notified. CSUF and CSU System-Wide Scholarships Full details for scholarships and awards at Cal State Fullerton are available by clicking on the links below: CSU System-wide Scholarships Associated Students Scholarships University Awards University Scholarship College of Arts College of Business and Economics College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Outside Scholarships The Gates Millennium Scholars Edison Scholarship HACU Scholarships Cancer for College Scholarship Disclaimer Federal regulations require students to notify the Office of Financial Aid of any scholarships and/or stipends they are receiving, which includes awards issued by academic departments, as well as those paid directly to the student. When we receive notification, all financial aid funds - this includes scholarships/stipends - must be taken into account when determining your eligibility for all other financial aid award(s). "Over $2 million in scholarships and awards is paid annually at Cal State Fullerton." How Scholarship Can Affect Your Financial Aid Awards As a financial aid recipient, you understand that funds received from an outside sources or agency for educational expenses (i.e. scholarships fee waivers, Voc Rehab assistance, etc.), will be coordinated with all other aid offered and that the coordination of these additional resources may result in changes to the types and amounts of financial aid initially offered by California State University, Fullerton. Alan Pattee Scholarship The Alan Pattee Scholarship is a waiver of fees and tuition. Applicants must be the natural or adopted child of a deceased law enforcement official or fire fighter who was a California resident, and killed as a result of the performance of official duties. Student and their spouses wanting further application information should contact Sara Martinez from Admission and Records. Contact Information Email: Sara Martinez Phone: (657) 278-2204 Other Scholarships Resources Additional scholarship resources are available at the following websites: Finaid.org Fast WEB CollegeNet College Board Scholarship Search Information can also be gathered from professional associations, business organizations, church and religious foundations or other special interest groups such as community service clubs. Each program will have its own deadlines and application procedures. Over 45 Indian tribes have established their own Grant and Loan Programs to promote higher education for their members. Contracts for tribal assistance should be made through the: U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Washington, D.C. 20240, or through the Tribal Headquarters, or by writing to Department of the Interior-BIA Office of Education Programs, MS 3512, Code 522, 18th & C Street N.W. Washington, D.C. 20240. Outside Donor Should Provide All scholarship recipients must provide their scholarship checks to Student Financial Services. The recipient's CWID (Student's ID number) must be written on all scholarship documentation. Where to Mail the Recipient's Scholarship California State University, Fullerton Student Financial Services, UH-180 ATTN: Cashiers P.O. Box 6808 Fullerton, Ca 92834-6808 Please, contact Student Financial Services at (657) 278-2495 to verify if they received your scholarship check. This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.