Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Campus & Community : Campus Destinations Campus Destinations Spend just a minute on our campus and you'll quickly see how The University of Texas at Austin is an immense and beautiful world all its own. And with our dozens of museums, libraries, centers, institutes and special venues spread across the campus and the city, each with its own unique exhibits and programming, you'll never be bored. Designed to enhance the experience of not just current students, faculty, and staff but also community members and visitors from around the world, our many campus destinations will educate, delight and amaze. Blanton Museum of Art One of the foremost university art museums in the country, with the largest and most comprehensive collection of art in Central Texas. Learn more Cactus Cafe An intimate live music performance venue showcasing top local, regional, national and international acoustic music acts. Learn more Darrell K Royal-Texas Memorial Stadium One of the largest stadiums in the nation — and home to our beloved Longhorns football team. Learn more Dolph Briscoe Center for American History A leading history research center featuring rich collections on Texas and U.S. history. Learn more Frank Erwin Center A multipurpose entertainment and sports arena providing benefits to the entire Central Texas community, and home to the men's and women's basketball teams. Learn more Gregory Gym Aquatic Complex An impressive aquatic complex with indoor and outdoor lap and leisure pools, a spa, deck space, and more. Learn more Harry Ransom Center An internationally renowned humanities research library and museum, providing unique insight into the creative process of writers and artists. Learn more LBJ Presidential Library An iconic presidential library and museum covering President Lyndon Baines Johnson's political career and American history. Learn more Stark Center A museum and library dedicated to the study of physical culture and sports. Learn more William C. Powers, Jr. Student Activity Center A state-of-the-art, award-winning and environmentally friendly student gathering space. Learn more Texas Memorial Museum A museum devoted to the natural sciences, exhibiting the university’s stunning biological and geological collections. Learn more Texas Union Our historic student union, serving as the university's "living room" since 1933. Learn more The Tower UT Austin's most recognizable landmark and symbol. Learn more Visual Arts Center A vibrant and dynamic creative hub on campus with both exhibition and research space. Learn more More Campus Destinations Campus Maps Campus Sessions and Tours for Prospective Students Recreational Sports Facilities Texas Performing Arts UT Austin Libraries Landmarks Latest Tweets Blanton Museum BlantonMuseum "Oscar Muñoz’s body of work on display in "Invisibilia" manages to be conceptually rigorous while remaining affecti… https://t.co/qEtKxU3pQ5 17 hs ago Reply2 Retweet Star Blanton Museum BlantonMuseum UPCOMING SYMPOSIUM | June 3, 2022 | 12pm CT, via Zoom Celebrate the closing of "Oscar Muñoz: Invisibilia" and join… https://t.co/CsKevuMx58 19 hs ago Reply2 Retweet Star LBJ Library LBJLibrary On Memorial Day, we pay tribute to the brave men & women who made the ultimate sacrifice in service to our country.… https://t.co/OCPZ71GHB0 21 hs ago Reply2 Retweet Star UT University Unions UTUnions Catch Anna Larson, the first of our Summer Series, in the Cactus Cafe! Friday, June 3 at 7:30PM. More info at… https://t.co/UDgO5iYzR4 2 ds ago Reply2 Retweet Star Blanton Museum BlantonMuseum Oscar Muñoz's video "Re/Trato [Portrait/I Try Again]" is one of many works by the artist that encapsulates the huma… https://t.co/bl0Zd7bI0l 3 ds ago Reply2 Retweet StarView all tweets Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022