Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content About Lyle Our Namesake: Bobby B. Lyle Mission Statement Message from the Dean Dean's Office Faculty Directory Support Lyle Support Lyle Giving Initiatives Connect with Lyle Development Corporate Relations Get in Touch ☰ About Lyle SMU Lyle Home About Lyle About the Lyle School of Engineering At the Lyle School, we are changing the way people think about engineers. Through innovation and hands-on experiences, we are attracting a diverse mix of talented students interested in making a difference in the world through engineering. With our bold vision and assertive attitude, we continue to grow both our undergraduate and graduate student population from a broad range of extraordinarily talented students across the nation and around the globe. In addition, we are fortunate to have one of the highest percentages of female engineering students anywhere. Not only is our faculty recognized internationally for remarkable contributions to engineering and society, but our strategic plan is inspired by a vision for Lyle to be one of the most influential educational and research centers for engineering and technology on the globe – one whose work will define the new American engineer and restore our role as technology leaders and world changers. Our Namesake: Bobby B. Lyle Mission Statement Message from the Dean Dean's Office Faculty Directory 9 Things Every Lyle Student Should Know Job Opportunities Support Lyle Get in Touch School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus