Skip to main content Student Financial Services Columbia University in the City of New York Search Submit SFSCU Undergraduates Graduate Students Veterans & Service Members Parents & Families Work-Study Financial Wellness Menu > Undergraduates Financial Aid Work-Study Bills & Payments Financial Wellness Graduate Students Financial Aid Work-Study Bills & Payments Financial Wellness Veterans & Service Members Getting Started General Information Fed Loan Benefits Financial Wellness Parents & Families Financial Aid Bills & Payments Work-Study Work-Study Financial Wellness Financial Wellness You are here Home Veterans & Service Members Getting Started Veterans Affairs Overview New Student Checklist Veterans Affairs Overview Submit Federal Application Request for Certification Medical Insurance Waiver Additional Funding Basic Info & FAQs Veterans Affairs Overview Federal Benefits for Members of the Armed Forces Many benefits are available to advance the education and skills of veterans and service members. Spouses and family members may also be eligible for education and training assistance. In fact, 25 percent of those benefiting from the Veterans Administration's education programs are non-veterans. Some might find they're eligible for more than one benefit or that one program is more suited to certain education and training goals than another. The Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2008 (the “GI Bill®”) expands the educational benefits available to many veterans who served on or after September 11, 2001. Learn more > In addition to other forms of financial aid, there are several opportunities for U.S. military personnel to receive both federal and state financial aid. Learn more from the VA > Click on the links below to learn more about: Yellow Ribbon Program - Supplements the base benefits of this bill by allowing educational institutions to enter into dollar-for-dollar matching agreements with the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs. Learn more > Military Service Deferments – You can postpone federal student loan repayment during certain periods of active duty (e.g., during war, other military operation, or national emergency) and immediately following active duty. Learn more > Federal Loan Repayment Programs - A number of Federal programs exist to help members of the military on active duty, veterans and their dependents. Learn more > General Columbia Financial Aid Information - There are numerous financial aid options available depending upon your educational status and school. Learn more > CLICK HERE TO GET STARTED >> To Contact Us Office of Military and Veterans Affairs 210 Kent Hall MC 9203, 1140 Amsterdam Ave. New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212-854-3161 Fax: 212-854-2818 Email: [email protected] Announcements 16 Feb Inquiries on Student Payroll and Stipend Payments Click the title to read the announcement. 14 Feb Sign Up for User Interview with SFS Web Team Do you receive veteran or service member education benefits to pay for school? If so, we want to speak to you! 13 Apr Response to COVID-19 Learn about the measures SFS is taking to address student and family needs in response to COVID-19. 14 Mar Need Help with Your W-2? Click the title to visit our W-2 Information page. 08 Sep SFS Orientation Video View a short instructional video about Student Financial Services, Registrar's information and ID services. Quick Links SSOL Forms & Docs Administrator Portal Alumni Information About Us Contact Our Service Centers Departments Registrar ID Center E-Billing Housing Dining Health Forms SFS Forms Veterans Forms HR Forms Finance Forms CUMC IT Service Forms IT Systems Email Services SIS SSOL Software Downloads myColumbia ARC Portal Training Courseworks Lynda.com Getting Help Service Center Ask Us IT Help Office Locations © 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York