Graduate Admissions Why Penn Engineering? Ph.D. Ph.D. Open House Master’s Admissions How to Apply International Students Admissions Contacts Additional Information Program Options Paying for Your Education Connect With Us Life at Penn FAQ Penn Engineering Online Learning Make a Gift Search Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Make a Gift Search Graduate Admissions Why Penn Engineering? Ph.D. Ph.D. Open House Master’s Admissions How to Apply International Students Admissions Contacts Additional Information Program Options Paying for Your Education Connect With Us Life at Penn FAQ Penn Engineering Online Learning How to Apply Jump to: Doctoral Program Deadlines Master’s Program Deadlines Criteria for Candidates Application Requirements Personal Statement Letters of Recommendation Transcripts Application Fee GRE TOEFL/IELTS Official Transcripts Financial Aid Information Admission Decisions On-Campus Programs Applications for all on-campus graduate programs for the 2022-23 Academic Year are currently closed. When they open in September 2022, you can access the application here. You can fill out our Inquiry Form to receive additional information about our programs. Online Programs Click here for more information about Penn Engineering Online degree programs. Doctoral Program Deadlines The application deadline for our Doctoral Programs is December 15, 2021; the application will be available beginning September 15, 2021. You can fill out an inquiry form to receive additional information about our programs. Master’s Program Deadlines Applications for the 2022-23 Academic Year will become available here on September 15, 2021. Application deadlines and release dates are listed below. Master’s Programs with Two Deadlines for the 2022-23 Application Cycle Computer and Information Science Computer and Information Technology (On-campus) Data Science (On-campus) Deadlines for Fall 2022 Admission: Early – November 1, 2021* Decisions released: January 14, 2022 Regular – February 1, 2022 Decisions released on or before April 1, 2022 *Attendance is not binding for those admitted at the Early Deadline. Master’s Programs with One Deadline for the 2022-23 Application Cycle Bioengineering Biotechnology Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Computer Graphics and Game Technology Electrical Engineering Integrated Product Design* Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics Nanotechnology Robotics Scientific Computing Systems Engineering Deadline for Fall 2022 Admission: February 1, 2022 Decisions released on or before April 1, 2022 Criteria for Candidates Applicants for Master’s and Doctoral programs must have obtained a Bachelor’s degree from an accredited School or University prior to intended matriculation date. The degree programs must be a minimum of three years in length. Application Requirements for On-Campus Programs All below materials are required to be submitted by the specific application deadline: Biographical information (part of the online application); Resume Personal Statement – we recommend the following guidelines for the personal statement: No more than two pages in a readable font/size: Use answers to the following questions to guide your writing; please provide detailed and specific examples from academia, industry or research when possible: Why are you interested in this program? What have you done that makes you a great candidate? How will you benefit from the program? How do you plan to contribute to the student community in SEAS while you’re here? Why will you succeed in the program? What will you do/accomplish once you have completed the program? Two [2] official Letters of Recommendation – one must be from a faculty member who is familiar with the candidate’s scholarly abilities: CIS PhD application requires three [3] Letters of Recommendation. Unofficial Transcript – submitted with application: One [1] transcript from each university or college attended where course credit was earned, to be uploaded and submitted with the online application. It is required to be in English. $90 non-refundable application fee – This payment must be submitted with the online application. Automatic waivers are available to (1) US citizens or permanent residents with proven low-income backgrounds, (2) applicants with Penn, or military affiliation, and (3) students from Bryn Mawr College, Haverford College or La Salle University who apply to one of our qualifying Accelerated Master’s programs. For applicants who meet one of the criteria above, the fee waiver will be automatically applied; there is no need to request a code. Reach out to your Admissions Contact if you have any questions. GRE – official score report for the Graduate Record Exam (GRE): Submitting your GRE scores is optional, but recommended for all of our graduate programs during the 2022-2023 application cycle. If you are/were able to take the GRE exam and have valid scores to report, we encourage you to do so. If you are not able to take the GRE exam, we will evaluate your application holistically. Your candidacy will not be negatively impacted if you do not report GRE scores. The institution code to use for the GRE exam is 2888. Test results must be valid at time of application submission. You must take the exam by the application deadline. TOEFL/IELTS* – All international applicants and non-US Citizens/Permanent Resident applicants for whom English is not the native language must submit official scores for either the Test Of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or International English Language Testing System (IELTS)*. The institution code for the TOEFL exam is 2888. Test results must be valid at time of application submission. You must take the exams by the application deadline. During this admissions season, we will accept scores from at-home administration of the GRE and TOEFL exams. TOEFL Score Recommendations – a minimum of 100 is recommended for all programs. There is not a required score. IELTS Score Recommendations – a minimum of 7.5 is recommended for all programs. There is not a required score. Please send your IELTS score report electronically. Test results should be sent to: “University of Pennsylvania School of Engineering and Applied Science” *To have this requirement waived, the applicant must meet the following criteria by the time of matriculation: Graduate from a program in the United States; Attend school in a country in which English is recognized as the official language; or, Graduate from an institution where the medium of instruction is English, and this is indicated on the unofficial transcript. A waiver request does not need to be submitted by an applicant; the requirement will be waived after the application and necessary materials are submitted and reviewed by the Graduate Admissions Office and an applicant is found to meet one or more of the above criteria. We do not have minimum required test scores or GPA. Averages can be found in some university publications, on some departmental websites and in media such as U.S. News & World Report and Peterson’s Guide. Due to the volume of applications we’re processing, we are not able to update any materials for submitted applications. Applications are considered final upon submission. We will only upload final, official transcripts when they become available. Please note that all application materials become property of the University of Pennsylvania and will not be returned. Remember to retain a personal copy of your application. Official Transcripts All official transcripts should only be sent to Penn Engineering if you have been admitted and have already submitted your enrollment form. One [1] official transcript from each university or college attended where course credit was earned. This must be submitted by the issuing institution. It is required to be in English. One [1] official final transcript, showing completion of the degree. You must also send a certificate of graduation, when the transcript does not list the degree earned. This must be submitted by the issuing institution. It is required to be in English. We do not require transcript evaluation by WES or any other 3rd party evaluation company. Current Penn Students and Penn Alumni that were enrolled beginning August of 2016 or after do not need to provide official transcripts. They will instead be uploaded from the University Registrar at no cost to the admitted student. Anyone that graduated or ended their enrollment prior to August 2016 must request an official transcript from the University Registrar and pay any applicable fees. If the transcripts will be mailed, please have them sent to the following address: University of Pennsylvania SEAS Graduate Admissions Levine North Building (GRW) Room 166B 3330 Walnut St. Philadelphia, PA 19104 Attn: (Enter Your Admissions Contact’s Name) If your institution uses electronic transcripts, your institution should send the electronic transcripts to the following administrators: Abigail Whittington, admissions1@seas.upenn.edu, for BE, EE, IPD, MSE, and MEAM, SE Sherry Ferraiolo, admissions2@seas.upenn.edu, for CGGT, CIS and DATS Christine Rahal-Osuna, admissions3@seas.upenn.edu, for BIOT, CBE, MCIT, NANO, ROBO, and SCMP We encourage all applicants submitting transcripts from non-US-based institutions to use transcript evaluation and translation services (if the original transcript is not in English). To expedite the process of ordering documents, you may use the Certifile/College Net Document Service offered through our online application to obtain documents from Educational Perspectives. Applicants from Chinese institutions are encouraged to use the China Credential Service (CHESICC) service. After you complete the required sections of your application, you will have the option to order your official transcripts and evaluation documents for an additional fee. You can also order them from the application checklist after your application has been submitted. Official transcripts are only required if you have been admitted and choose to enroll. Financial Aid Information Please note that Penn Engineering does not provide master’s applicants with financial assistance. Please see the Paying For Your Education page for more information. Admission Decisions Applications are evaluated as a whole portfolio: we use your self-reported test scores, unofficial transcripts, letters of recommendation, personal statement and resume/cv for the application review process. Completed Master’s applications will be evaluated promptly by our faculty once each application cycle has ended. Admittance is based on an estimate of the applicant’s ability to successfully complete our graduate program and on the compatibility of student interests with our programs and research. Decisions are released on the advertised date unless otherwise noted; the applicant will be notified directly through the online application system. Admission decisions are not released before the deadlines, are not revealed over the telephone and are not sent by mail. Quick Actions Find a Person Find a building Visit Penn Engineering Report computing issues (CETS) Report facilities issues (EOS) Student health and safety concerns Contact Penn Public Safety (DPS) PENN ENGINEERING ©2017 | UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA | SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE 220 South 33rd Street | 107 Towne Building | Philadelphia, PA 19104-6391 | 215-898-7246 Contact us with questions about admissions or academic programs | For website issues, email the webmaster Report accessibility issues and get help PENN ENGINEERING ©2017 UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE 220 South 33rd Street | 107 Towne Building | Philadelphia, PA 19104-6391 | 215-898-7246 Contact us with questions about admissions or academic programs | For website issues, email the webmaster Report accessibility issues and get help