Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Faculty/Staff Resources Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Prospective Students Current Students Research About Partner News Center for Human Genetics Clemson University’s Center for Human Genetics opened July 1, 2018, and is dedicated to advancing knowledge of the fundamental principles by which genetic and environmental factors determine and predict both healthy traits and susceptibility to disease. The Center for Human Genetics, which is part of the College of Science, is housed in Self Regional Hall, a 17,000-square-foot building that opened in February 2017. The sparkling facility is nestled within the sprawling campus of the Greenwood (S.C.) Genetic Center, which has a long history of clinical and research excellence in the field of medical genetics and caring for families impacted by genetic disease and birth defects. Visit the Full CHG Website MEDIA RELEASE Renowned scientist named director of Center for Human Genetics Clemson University has further enhanced its standing as a pioneer in the field of human genomics by hiring a renowned scientist to lead the way. Groundbreaking geneticist Trudy Mackay has been named director of Clemson’s Center for Human Genetics and has been tasked with building a team of researchers whose goal will be to significantly advance our understanding of genetic disorders. ➥ Read more about the Center for Human Genetics Additional stories Oct. 25, 2018: Mackay to be honored at Trinity College Dublin Oct. 8, 2018: CHG receives $1.87 million from NIH to advance research Aug. 8, 2018: CHG opens its doors to the world Feb. 15, 2017: CHG unveils new facility on Greenwood Genetic Center campus General Inquiries Clemson Center for Human Genetics 114 Gregor Mendel Circle Greenwood, SC 29646 ✉ tmackay@clemson.edu ☏ 864-889-0519 Job Openings Research Home Centers and Institutes OSP/Submit Proposal Post Award Illustrations/Editing Departments Biological Sciences Chemistry Genetics and Biochemistry School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences Physics and Astronomy Centers and Institutes Clemson Center for Human Genetics Clemson Eukaryotic Pathogens Innovation Center Center for Excellence in Math and Science Education Life Sciences Outreach Center Statistics and Mathematics Consulting Center Give to the College Like Us on Facebook Copyright © 2019 Clemson University College of Science | 118 Long Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3015 | Email Us