Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Life at UC » Essential Resources » Law and Safety Set Navigation title in component Student Experiences Essential Resources Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Law and Safety UC's Public Safety department provides all public safety and emergency response resources for the University of Cincinnati, including our regional campuses. Whether you are locked out of your car, need a background check for a rental or a grant application or need help as the victim of a crime, Public Safety can assist you. They also have useful tips about how to be aware of your surroundings and keep an eye on your belongings if you're not used to urban living so that you can be both comfortable and safe on and around campus. Public Safety The Department of Public Safety has three main sections. Police: Patrol, Investigations, 911 Dispatch, Crime Prevention, Security and NightRide units Fire Safety: Campus building inspections to ensure facilities meet fire and safety codes and maintaince on and testing of facility smoke detectors Security Systems: Keys, locks, ID Badges, intrusion alarms, fingerprinting and background check You can reach any of them by calling 513-556-1111 or through the Bearcat Guardian app. NightRide right arrow down arrow The NightRide servce provides safe evening transportation on demand within a mile of campus for UC students, staff and faculty and one guest. You only need your Bearcat card to ride. Service hours are 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. Sunday through Wednesday and 8 p.m. to 5 a.m. Thursday through Saturday. (Waits may be longer after midnight.) Visit UC Public Safety's site to learn how to request a ride by phone, app, or web form. Bearcat Guardian app right arrow down arrow Download the Bearcat Guardian app as your quickest way to receive safety alerts, connect with Public Safety in an emergency, upload vital medical information or request a ride after dark. Scams It's easy for online or phone scams to take advantage of students who are new to the U.S. and unfamiliar with how things work. Keep yourself—and your money—safe with tips from Public Safety on how to spot a scam. Legal resources There are many resources available to you to protect your legal rights, learn your legal responsibilities and resolve your legal problems. This is avery limited list; explore UC's website for many more. UC International is your first contact, especially for issues related to immigration and taxes. Law and Safety Campus and academic issues right arrow down arrow Accessibility resources Ombuds office (conflict management) Dean of Students (student advocacy) Legal aid and crime victim advocacy right arrow down arrow Legal Aid Society of Greater Cincinnati (legal representation) Gender Equity & Inclusion/Title IX (UC, reporting sex discrimination, sexual harassment and sexual assault) Victim Advocates (Cincinnati) Renter resources right arrow down arrow TIP (Tenant Information Project, a volunteer organization that provides legal information to callers concerning landlord/tenant law); hotline: (513) 556-0053, 8am - 5pm, M-F HOME (Housing Opportunities Made Equal) UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top