COVID-19 UH Updates skip to Main Content Campuses dropdown menu column 1 Overviews Universities Mānoa Hilo West Oʻahu column 2 Community Colleges Hawaiʻi Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi Leeward Maui Windward column 3 Distance Learning UH Education Centers Continuing Education Community Colleges Attend dropdown menu column 1 Overview Degrees and Programs column 2 Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition UH System dropdown menu column 1 About UH Strategic Directions Policies and Procedures Title IX column 2 Leadership Board of Regents System Offices A-Z Stewardship of Maunakea column 3 UH News Emergency Post-Pandemic Hawaiʻi and UH column 4 Support UH UH Foundation UH Alumni Relations Make a Gift UH Hilo: At a Glance UH System » Campuses » Hilo Students at the Daniel K. Inouye College of Pharmacy, the only college of pharmacy in the Pacific region, prepare to meet workforce needs. The Big Island of Hawaiʻi is a natural living laboratory of active volcanoes, deep oceans, the world’s best telescopes and a rich cultural landscape. UH Hilo bachelor’s and master’s degree programs take advantage of it all. Apply today. Areas of Excellence Atmosphere The UH Hilo campus is safe and personal, similar to a small private college. National Rankings UH Hilo ranks in the top 10 for both ethnic diversity and the low percentage of students with debt at graduation, according to U.S. News and World Reports. Hawaiian Studies UH Hilo is the only place in the nation where students can earn a master’s degree in indigenous language studies. Natural Laboratory The Big Island of Hawaiʻi is an unparalleled natural laboratory for the study of volcanoes, astronomy, agriculture and marine sciences. Apply: UH Hilo Admissions Pay for college: Financial Aid Office Fast Facts about UH Hilo Degrees and Programs Certificates: 46 Bachelor’s degrees: 36 Master’s degrees: 7 Doctoral degrees: 2 Professional degrees: 2 Enrollment Undergraduate: 2,763 Graduate: 480 Total: 3,243 Student to Faculty Ratio* 12:1 * IPEDS fall 2018 Age and Gender* Average age: 24.3 years old Men: 34.5% Women: 65.5% * full-time students Enrollment Status Full-time: 70.4% Part-time: 29.6% Pell Grant Recipients* 53% * of eligible, full-time students, Fall 2020 Student Diversity (full-time students) Residency Figures from the Institutional Research, Analysis & Planning Office , Fall 2021. University of Hawai‘i Hilo news Hurricane season ‘22 could see few cyclones, forecasters say ʻŌlelo, ʻike Hawaiʻi focus of UH Hilo Children’s Literature Conference Hawaiian Word of the Week: Holu UH Board of Regents approves updated Maunakea Comprehensive Management Plan 2022 legislative recap: Key takeaways, budget breakdown Featured video: UH Hilo campus news and events Contact Information and Location University of Hawaiʻi at Hilo 200 W. Kawili St. Hilo, HI 96720 (808) 932-7799 toll free (800) 897-HILO Directions and a map to Hilo campus. Undergraduate Admissions International Admissions Graduate Admissions Need more info? MyUH Services for new and prospective UH Hilo students. Last modified: May 12, 2022 Changing lives through higher education. Apply Now Universities Mānoa Hilo West Oʻahu Community Colleges Hawaiʻi Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi Leeward Maui Windward UH Athletics UH Mānoa Hilo Vulcans Support UH UH Alumni Relations UH Foundation Our Ten Campuses UH Mānoa, UH Hilo, UH West Oʻahu, Hawaiʻi CC, Honolulu CC, Kapiʻolani CC, Kauaʻi CC, Leeward CC, Maui College, Windward CC and selected education centers are located across the Hawaiian Islands. Choose from the list to get more information on each campus. Click on map to enlarge. 2444 Dole Street Honolulu, HI 96822 An equal opportunity/ affirmative action institution Use of this site implies consent with our Usage Policy copyright © 2022 University of Hawaiʻi Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr YouTube Contact UH If required, information contained on this website can be made available in an alternative format upon request. Get Adobe Acrobat Reader Calendar Directory Emergency Information MyUH Privacy Statement Work at UH About UH Attend Campuses Degrees and Programs Leadership Offices Back To Top Submit