Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home News & Events / UH Katy Groundbreaking News & Events News Releases Emergency Communications Calendars & Events UH News Mailing Lists & Subscriptions UH Katy Groundbreaking May 23, 2018 Artist rendering The University of Houston will break ground on a new campus to serve the higher education needs in the Katy area. Groundbreaking for the new UH Katy is planned for 1 p.m., Wednesday, May 23, at the northeast corner of Grand Parkway and I-10. “This new facility extends the reach of UH into Greater Houston, pairing programs with the education and workforce needs of the community,” said Jay Neal, associate vice president and chief operating officer of UH Katy. “These students will be prepared for excellence.” The project is expected to be completed by fall 2019. The 80,000-sq.-ft. building at UH Katy will be constructed on 46 acres in a growing area known as University Center. Students will take classes from the UH College of Nursing and the UH Cullen College of Engineering, as well as the University of Houston-Victoria at Katy. The College of Nursing will offer a traditional Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree. The first cohort can accommodate up to 30 students. New to the college, the traditional BSN degree will debut at UH Katy. Among the engineering programs to be offered at UH Katy is the Subsea Engineering program, the first such U.S. academic program in the discipline. UHV Katy will offer classes from its Arts & Sciences, Business Administration and Education programs. These classes will be available online and face-to-face. UH Katy is designed by SmithGroup and will be constructed by Tellepsen. What: Groundbreaking for UH Katy When: 1 p.m., Wednesday, May 23, 2018 Where: Partnership Way, Katy, Texas 77449 (Grand Parkway, North of I-10) Categories: Events, Notices, Student Success University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies