Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Purchasing Home Ordering Goods / Receiving Deliveries SPCI COVID-19 Essential Health & Safety Supply Request Form Alternative Delivery locations Having orders delivered to non-Brown addresses should be limited to critical operational needs and will require the approval of the applicable Senior Officer/Division Head/Dean. This applies to all methods of ordering. COVID-19 Brown University Expectations for Vendors, Contractors and Suppliers Fraudulent Purchase Order Alert - Please read Strategic Purchasing, Contracts & Insurace (SPCI) provides assistance to faculty, staff and students in making informed purchasing decisions. Our department works to leverage the University’s buying power to get high quality products and services for the lowest possible price. The University has several policies that address Purchasing Standards that provide important guidance in the way that procurement activities are conducted. These policies include: Brown University Licensee Code of Conduct Business Ethics Compliance With Laws, Codes, and Regulations Supplier Diversity Policy Environmental Awareness The University’s procurement policies are intended to be consistent with the Generally Accepted Accounting Practices (GAAP), Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards Found at 2 CFR 200, and the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR). University departments will ensure that each transaction is classified or defined as an allowable expenditure using the appropriate spend category in the Workday Financials System. For sponsored programs, certain purchases may be unallowable. Brown University implemented the Uniform Guidance Procurement Rules detailed in 2 CFR 200.317 - 200.326 as of July 1, 2018. For More Information Purchasing and Strategic Sourcing staff are available to assist with your purchasing needs and questions. Please email [email protected] or contact a staff member if you need assistance. Related Links Insurance Office Controller's Office Home SPCI Process Improvement Projects (BCM, BrownBuys, Supplier Onboarding) Staff About Strategic Suppliers Strategic Sourcing Uniform Guidance Overview Ordering Goods and Services Contract Review Conducting Business with Brown University Posted Bid Opportunities Brown's Property Insurance Office Forms Policies Print this Page Share this Page Strategic Purchasing, Contracts & Insurance Brown University Box 1845 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2206 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Offices Insurance Controller's Office