Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Engineering and Computer Science Menu Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships List of ECS Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Summer Accelerate Program Summer of Discovery Freshmen Fall Incoming Freshmen Equipment Requirements and Computer Recommendations Transfer Course Recommendations Entrance and Progression Standards ECS Scholars Program Academic Advising Meet with an ECS Advisor Advising Walk-in Hours Course Drops Academic Actions Certification for Graduation ECS Summer Courses Advising Resources Pre-Engineering Requirements ECS Course Repeat Policy Final Exam Policy Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science About Education Materials Science Faculty Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Bioinformatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Data Science major Research Computer Science About Us ABET Chair's Welcome Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Software Engineering Concentration Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Cybersecurity Concentration Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Science with Computer Science Fellows Major Online Master of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Bioinformatics Competitive Learning Cybersecurity & Networking Data Science Human-Computer Interaction Machine Learning Software Engineering VLSI Design Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair eBears Seminars Cadence University Program Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & Master of Engineering Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Biomedical Computing Engineering and Cyber-Physical Systems Material and Devices Sustainable Energy and Power Systems Wireless & Microwave Circuits & Systems Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.S. Ph.D. Research Advance Materials and Additive Manufacturing Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering Energy Systems Engineering Geriatric Engineering Humanitarian Engineering and Engineering Ethics Sustainable Engineering Thermo-Fluids Engineering Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us ABET Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.B.A. & M.E. Joint Program Master of Science Master of Engineering Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise Baylor>Engineering & Computer Science>About>News News May 10 2022 Amazon software development engineer Dipta Das shares his experience with Baylor Computer Science Master's program Dipta Das, MSCS ’21, provides an international perspective on Baylor Computer Science and entering the U.S. workplace. Apr 14 2022 SpaceX Intern Leading Aerospace Club to New Heights Annika Moser's infectious enthusiasm for aerospace helped grow her student organization from 8 to 150 while balancing coursework and working in a research lab at the BRIC. Now she's landed a coveted SpaceX summer internship. Apr 13 2022 ECS Impact: Springing Back into the Community See how ECS has resumed engaging with the community this Spring after the Covid-19 pandemic. Mar 31 2022 Deans spark Interdisciplinary Research Dialogue Baylor University ECS and RCHHS deans bring professors together across disciplines to build new research partnerships Aug 17 2021 From the Dean This year, Baylor’s School of Engineering and Computer Science (ECS) celebrates 25 years! Baylor chose to shine the light on our engineering and computer science programs in 1995 when the University created the School, and our work continues to be an important part of Baylor's strategic plan, Illuminate. As a result, we are geared up and ready to help Baylor become a Research 1 (R1) university in the coming years. Aug 17 2021 ECS Celebrates 25 Years as a School and a Half-century of Pioneers and Principles Underneath every milestone in the School of Engineering and Computer Science's (ECS) 25-year history lies a foundation of principles laid decades beforehand by a few hearty pioneers. Aug 17 2021 Shrinking the Circle: Reducing impact on an E3 Attack Dr. Mack Grady, professor of electrical and computer engineering, couldn’t predict that his expertise in electrical power would lead to him being involved in science-fiction worthy research. However, that’s exactly where he ended up when he found himself being recruited for national defense efforts against electromagnetic pulses (EMPs). Aug 17 2021 Building Design with Health in Mind Thanks to the healthy building movement, it is more common for building designs to promote employee health, but there is a gap between theory and application. One Baylor research team sought to bridge that gap, and they needed a computer scientist to accomplish the task. Aug 17 2021 Deep Learning for Beginners Most adults have experienced what it's like to apply for credit, whether through a bank or credit card company. What many may have not considered is the work that goes on behind the scenes to make an approval decision within minutes. That work is done by computer scientists who have studied in the field of deep learning. Aug 17 2021 ECS Career Center Now more than ever, the anxiety for students transitioning out of their undergraduate experience into professional or graduate academic pursuits can be a grueling experience. The dedicated staff of the Baylor University Career Center step into that chaotic process to offer a bridge of resources and tools to help identify and secure the next step in each student’s career path by graduation. Aug 17 2021 Heather Benoit - BSE '09, MSE '11 Heather Benoit graduated from Baylor's School of Engineering and Computer Science with a bachelor's degree in engineering in 2009 and her master's in biomedical engineering in 2011. Today, she is a senior mechanical engineer and program manager at M3 Design, Inc., a leading product development and technology consulting firm that specializes in building the future. Aug 17 2021 Mario Lopez Mario Lopez, a senior computer science major, took a long and winding road to Baylor. Moving away from a small town in Mexico to Houston as a kid, graduating high school and enrolling in community college classes, transferring to UTSA and finally arriving at Baylor, Lopez has a remarkable story that is rooted in a search for community that he found within his Baylor family in Waco. Aug 17 2021 Elsewhere at Baylor In August, Baylor University officially announced plans to pursue Research 1/Tier 1 (R1/T1) recognition by building on Illuminate, the University’s strategic plan, which will guide Baylor towards joining the nation’s top research universities and achieving status as the world’s preeminent Christian research university. Aug 17 2021 Rick Tullis - BSE '93 I knew I wanted to be an engineer in the eighth grade, mainly because of my love for aviation. I applied to Baylor at the urging of my high school best friend who had come to Baylor the year before. When I first visited the campus, I didn’t even know it had an engineering program because the program was still in its infancy when I arrived in 1987. Feb 3 2021 Mary Lauren Benton, Ph.D., Gives Insight to her Newly Published Article on the Influence of Evolutionary History on Human Health and Disease Tools of innovation, science and technology look to the future. To fully understand problems of now and in the future, however, history cannot be ignored. Mary Lauren Benton, Ph.D., assistant professor of bioinformatics, brings those worlds together in her research to solve the biggest mystery of all – the human genome. Jan 21 2021 Baylor University Partners with My Labs Direct to Launch State-of-the-Art On-Site COVID-19 Testing Lab and Research Facility to Usher Students, Faculty Safely Back to Campus Baylor University announced today that it has opened its own on-site COVID-19 testing lab and research facility in partnership with My Labs Direct (MLD), a CLIA-certified, COLA-accredited diagnostic lab that offers an extensive menu of FDA-approved tests. Nov 18 2020 Pablo Rivas, Ph.D., Discusses His New Book on Deep Learning within Artificial Intelligence and the Ethical Concerns it Brings Most adults have experienced what it's like to apply for credit, whether through a bank or credit card company. What many may have not considered is the work that goes on behind the scenes to make an approval decision within minutes. That work is done by computer scientists who have studied in the field of deep learning. In his new book, Pablo Rivas, Ph.D., said he wanted to write a book about deep learning that has the right balance of theory and practice for a beginner’s audience. Oct 7 2020 Dr. Kenneth Van Treuren Announced in AIAA Class of 2021 Associate Fellows The American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) announced its Class of 2021 Associate Fellows. Kenneth Van Treuren, PhD, Associate Dean of Research and Faculty Development and Professor of Mechanical Engineering, was among those who were honored with the designation this year. Sep 14 2020 Baylor Rises to No. 76 in Latest U.S. News Rankings, in Top 10 for Undergraduate Entrepreneurship, Among 'Most Innovative Schools' Baylor University moved up three places to No. 76 among National Universities – with several academic programs and opportunities for undergraduates highly rated – in the latest rankings for 2021 released today by U.S. News & World Report. Aug 25 2020 Meet the Baylor researchers who will highlight BU’s national brand campaign Dr. Annette von Jouanne, professor of energy systems: Long recognized as a “Celebrated Woman Engineer” by the National Academy of Engineering, von Jouanne came to Baylor from Oregon State and brought her nationally-regarded research into renewable energy and electric vehicles to campus. She worked on the first hybrid SUV, and currently partners with the Navy on the development of electric ships. Aug 21 2020 Baylor Professors Receive Grant to Study Simulated Hippotherapy Treatment for Children with Autism An interdisciplinary team of Baylor University scientists and engineers has been awarded a nearly $600,000 grant from the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board to study the effectiveness of a device that simulates the motion of horseback riding as a treatment for children with autism. Aug 4 2020 Technical Expertise, Leadership, and Volunteerism Earn Recognition for Young Engineer Jonathan Hartman, P.E., has recently been awarded the National Society of Professional Engineers’ 2020 Young Engineer of the Year Award. This award recognizes a young NSPE member who has made outstanding contributions to the Engineering Profession and the community during the early years of one's career. Jun 25 2020 Baylor Faculty Earn Four NSF CAREER Development Awards Baylor University’s drive toward Research 1 (R1) status received a major boost this spring as four faculty members earned prestigious CAREER development awards from the National Science Foundation (NSF). The grants represent the largest number of CAREER awards earned by Baylor faculty in a single semester and nearly doubled the University’s total number of active CAREER awards to nine. Jun 10 2020 Baylor School of Engineering and Computer Science Offers Degree in Data Science With the tech industry growing rapidly, it couldn’t be a better time for Baylor’s School of Engineering and Computer Science (ECS) to launch its data science degree program. The new major will begin in the Fall, 2020, and will join the existing BSI major in Bioinformatics. May 5 2020 Baylor University Honors Outstanding Faculty for 2019-2020 Twelve Baylor University professors have been honored with Outstanding Faculty Awards for teaching, scholarship and contributions to the academic community for the 2019-2020 academic year. Are you looking for more News? Archives About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Engineering & Computer Science One Bear Place #97356 Waco, TX 76798-7356 Computer Science One Bear Place #97141 Waco, TX 76798-7141 (254) 710-3890 ECS_Student_Services@baylor.edu Apply Give Questions for Undergraduate Programs Questions for Graduate Programs General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Academic Advising Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Research Computer Science About Us Degree Programs Research Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us Programs Research Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us Programs Research Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us Programs Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise