Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Home About Graduate Program Initiatives Conferences Exhibitions Publications Partnerships Digital Projects Suffrage in Rhode Island: A Lippitt Family Perspective Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Public Work: A Public Humanities Podcast Rhode Tour Public Humanities Blog Day of Public Humanities Brown FACADES App Year of the City: The Providence Project People Events Blog Site Navigation Home About Land Acknowledgment Programs History Nightingale-Brown House Richard Neutra's "Windshield" House Model Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Black Labor at Nightingale-Brown House Brochure: Slave Labor and the Making of the Nightingale-Brown House Doing Public Humanities Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan DIAP Summary Update 2019-2020 Year in Review Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Past practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Tuition Scholarship & Other Funding Public History of Slavery Fellowship Native American & Indigenous Studies Fellowship Curatorial Fellowships City Year (Americorps) Agreement Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources Initiatives Conferences Exhibitions Gallery Publications Partnerships Digital Projects Suffrage in Rhode Island: A Lippitt Family Perspective Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Public Work: A Public Humanities Podcast Rhode Tour Public Humanities Blog Day of Public Humanities Brown FACADES App Year of the City: The Providence Project People Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisory Board Public Humanities Fellows Current Students Alumni Alumni Directory Alumni Interviews Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops Blog Public Humanities Blog Public / Human: 2021 Public Humanities Commencement Toast February 1, 2022 The following is the transcript of the Commencement toast given by Matt Branch A.M. ‘21, for the Public Humanities Commencement Celebration on April 30, 2021. In addition to being a graduating member of the class of 2021, Matt is the Associate Director of Student Activities at Brown, where he supports students in extracurricular programming and events. He is an educator, an artists administrator, and a cultural strategist working at Brown University and with Black South West Network, a race-equity non-profit based in Bristol, United Kingdom. Read more Little Compton Historical Society Trip December 10, 2021 Steven Lubar is the Director of Brown University Center for Digital Scholarship, and Professor of American Studies and History. On a chilly but sunny November day ten public humans took a field trip to Little Compton. Marjory O'Toole (2018 MA in Public Humanities) invited us to visit the Little Compton Historical Society to see the organization’s new permanent exhibit, "Everyone Was a Farmer.” Read more Scorched Memories of the Abandoned Albuquerque Indian School November 3, 2021 Felicia Bartley is a young Tiwa woman from the Pueblo of Isleta (Shiewip). She is a second-year graduate student in the Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage department and the second-year Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative Fellow. Her current research focuses on the formative history of the Indian Pueblo Cultural Center, built upon the former grounds of the Albuquerque Indian School. Read more Small and Mighty: Reflections on a Tiny Team Moving the Needle September 28, 2021 Sophie Don has been the Administrative and Operations Manager for the Philadelphia Holocaust Remembrance Foundation since completing her MA in Public Humanities at Brown in 2020. She has a personal passion for the mission of PHRF, as her grandparents and other family members are survivors and were involved in the 1964 memorial effort. You can reach Sophie Don at [email protected]org. Read more A Place Prepared: The Demolition of “Lippitt Hill” August 30, 2021 Rai Terry is a Black queer visual scholar, audiovisual archivist, and multimedia artist. They are a 2nd year graduate student in the Public Humanities program and Fellow at the Center for Slavery and Justice. They are engaging the spaces, both physical and digital, that Black queer people occupy and adorn as reclamations of life and freedom. Read more View All Initiatives Conferences Exhibitions Publications Partnerships Digital Projects Suffrage in Rhode Island: A Lippitt Family Perspective Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Public Work: A Public Humanities Podcast Rhode Tour Public Humanities Blog Day of Public Humanities Brown FACADES App Year of the City: The Providence Project John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Brown University Box 1880 Nightingale Brown House 357 Benefit Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1177 Fax: 401-863-7777 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top