Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Report An Incident Crime Alerts Blue Light Services About the Department Toggle the sub-menu Department Directory Internal Affairs Fingerprinting Services Lost and Found Lost and Found Locations Crime Prevention Careers and Recruitment Event Security and Planning Blue Light Services Campus Safety & Security Toggle the sub-menu Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC) Access Control Homecoming Weekend Emergency Mass Notification RAVE Guardian app Traffic Safety Commercial Vehicle Pickups and Deliveries Commencement Weekend Child Safety Seat Program Other Campus Resources Campus Watch Toggle the sub-menu Annual Security Report Crime Statistics Campus Security Authorities (CSAs) Crime Definitions and Clery Geography Timely Warnings (Crime Alerts) Daily Crime Log Cornell Police Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter About the Department Toggle the sub-menu Department Directory Internal Affairs Fingerprinting Services Lost and Found Lost and Found Locations Crime Prevention Careers and Recruitment Event Security and Planning Blue Light Services Campus Safety & Security Toggle the sub-menu Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC) Access Control Homecoming Weekend Emergency Mass Notification RAVE Guardian app Traffic Safety Commercial Vehicle Pickups and Deliveries Commencement Weekend Child Safety Seat Program Other Campus Resources Campus Watch Toggle the sub-menu Annual Security Report Crime Statistics Campus Security Authorities (CSAs) Crime Definitions and Clery Geography Timely Warnings (Crime Alerts) Daily Crime Log The Cornell University Police department is an internationally accredited organization that operates 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, from its headquarters in Barton Hall. The department has 68 members, 43 of them sworn officers who patrol campus on foot, in vehicles, on bicycles, and with explosive detection K-9s. The mission of Cornell Police is to protect lives and property, maintain order, prevent crimes, receive and investigate reports of crimes, and provide other law-enforcement services. The department is responsive to the special needs of Cornell’s large and diverse community—a community of people who come from across the United States and the world to study and work at Cornell. About the Department Campus Safety & Security Other Campus Resources Campus Watch Welcome from Chief Kathy Zoner As chief of the Cornell University Police Department, I aim to be present and public, so students, faculty, staff, and our entire community know me and know that I am available. We want everyone at Cornell to know that the police department is here to support them, to be a resource for them, and to work with them. Listening to our community, really learning what they need and how they want to be served, is so important. My vision is to continue our progress in partnership with the community. We must understand each other and take into consideration everybody’s safety first, while making sure we’re treating people with empathy. I recognize the importance of engaging with all community members. This allows for inclusive and transparent conversations to determine shared responsibilities and goals. My hope is that these dialogues will build trust with the Cornell community. I am also committed to strengthening our recruiting and hiring to build and maintain a diverse, talented, caring, and experienced police department that reflects our community. It is my hope that through our efforts, the environment of public safety and support at Cornell will continue to promote a rich and positive experience for all members of our community in their education, work, and daily lives. Sincerely, Chief Anthony Bellamy Cornell University Police Department 117 Statler Drive G2 Barton Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 255-1111 Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, Contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2022 Cornell University