Administration & Finance - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Administration and Finance Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Administration and Finance About Us Mission Strategic Goals Contact A&F Join Our Listserv Functional Areas Campus Services Auxiliary Services: Campus store, Dining Services, Parking and Transportation University Services: Cougar Card, Cullen Performance Hall, Copy Print and Delivery Services, UIT - University Information Technology Environmental Health and Safety Public Safety OEM - Office of Emergency Management Risk Management Facilities/Construction Management: Facilities Planning & Construction, Facilities Services Real Estate Services Policies & Procedures: SAMs and MAPPs A&F Ambassadors Calendar of Events Meet the Team Equal Opportunity Services Employee Services Human Resources Equal Opportunity Services Parking and Transportation Payroll/HRMS Facilities/Construction Management FIX-IT Customer Service Center Public Safety Employee Training Financial Services Accounting Services: General Accounting, Property Management, Bank Reconciliation and Endowment Accounting, Research Accounting, Student Accounting Accounts Payable: P Card, Travel Budget Office Business Services Cost Accounting Financial Reporting HUB Operations Purchasing State Accounting Student Financial Services Tax Information Office of the Treasury Vendor Information Student Services Policy Services SAM and MAPP Office of Administration Houston Public Media Committees Board of Regents Committees A&F Committees Leadership Announcements A&F Newsletter Submit Your Content A&F Division Highlights News Feature Stories Feature Stories by Date Feature Stories Releases A&F S.P.I.R.I.T. Newsletter Archive A&F FOCUS Newsletter Archives Quick Links: Student Services Submit Your Content Mission About Us Strategic Goals Vision Mission Strategic Goals TOGETHER, WE RISE TOGETHER, WE SOAR DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATION & FINANCE Raymond Bartlett Senior Vice Chancellor and Senior Vice President Welcome to the Division of Administration and Finance at the University of Houston, comprised of more than 1,100 employees within eight business units reporting to the Senior Vice President for Administration and Finance. As an integral foundation with a Commitment to Service Excellence, the Mission of the Division of Administration and Finance is to provide a platform for nationally competitive and internationally recognized opportunities of learning, discovery, and engagement for a diverse student population in a real-world setting by leading, supporting and enabling Strategic Goals of institutional effectiveness for the University of Houston and the University of Houston System. For all the news and highlights from across the Division of A&F, check out the latest issue of the A&F SPIRIT Newsletter . The newsletter is sent to all Division Staff. Click here to read the A&F Division Highlights. 2022 A&F Annual Highlights Our commitment to Customer Service Excellence… With challenges come opportunities, and while the past year has been a whirlwind of constant change throughout a very dynamic situation, what is important is what has not changed. And that is the spirit of service excellence that is showcased throughout these pages encompassing every aspect of the Division in support of the overall mission to the University and the broad UH community. From the front lines to state-of-the art programming and operations, we are delighted to showcase the accomplishments of our dedicated employees who embody the A&F S.P.I.R.I.T. in all that they do each and every day in support of the University’s strategic plan. Read more. ICYMI: News You Can Use A&F S.P.I.R.I.T. Newsletter Highlights In this month’s issue, we also highlight a number of features, events, and employee recognition, including Global Employee Health and Fitness Month, Supply Chain challenges, articles from Equal Opportunity Services and Houston Public Media, Emergency Management Director, Parking and Transportation, and UH Facilities/Construction Management. Read the newsletter to learn more. UH Breaks Ground on The Hub Construction will soon be underway on The Hub, a two-story, 41,000 square-foot facility that will replace The Satellite, an underground center that was a favorite of students and staff for decades. To celebrate this milestone, the University held a ceremonial groundbreaking ceremony on Friday, April 22nd. Learn more about what The Hub will bring to the university. Finals Mania Returns to Much Fanfare One of the highlights of wrapping up the academic year is the Finals Mania tradition, during which administrators serve students free food to help students fuel their minds for finals study sessions. Learn more about the return of Finals Mania! Advisory Committee Reception Recap The Division of Administration & Finance hosted the annual A&F Advisory Committee Reception on April 21 to honor and celebrate the work of student, faculty, and staff advisory committee members for the 2021-22 academic year. Read more about the committee members that were honored! UH Police Department Presents UHPD and Me Stop by for treats and a chance to meet UHPD's finest at the UHPD and Me event held at the Student Center South. Upcoming tabling event dates for UHPD and Me include: Student Center South, 10 am - 11 am June 14 | July 12 August 9 Check out photos from the January UHPD and Me event. Highlights The Unsung Heroes of Commencement The University of Houston's Spring 2022 Commencement ceremonies saw 5,917 undergraduate, graduate, professional and doctoral students walk across the stage. For the students, it's a culmination of hard work and dedication. For family and friends, it's a sense of pride to see loved ones accomplish a goal. Learn more about the unsung heroes of commencement. A New Employee Wellness Platform The university’s Human Resources department has been hard at work creating an employee wellness platform to assist staff with their health and fitness needs. Learn more about the new wellness platform! How the University is Navigating the Supply Chain Crisis The University of Houston is not immune to the ongoing worldwide supply chain and inflation challenges. From finding new merchants to building new relationships, customer-facing departments have had to pivot and alter how they manage their services. Read more about how this issue is affecting the university. UH Dining Summer Hours Summer is here and that means new operating hours for some University of Houston dining services. The summer break typically means fewer students on campus which allow UH dining establishments to shift their hours of operation due to fewer customers. Cougar Red Fridays Reminder alert: If you wear a red shirt on Friday, you can get an all-you-can-eat lunch for $6 at Cougar Woods Dining Commons or the Moody Towers Dining Commons. Cullen Performance Hall Events Over the next few months, a variety of exciting and entertaining shows and events will take the stage at the historic Cullen Performance Hall, View our calendar of events here! Book your next event with us. UHPD Holds Moment of Silence for National Police Week The University of Houston Police Department held a moment of silence during National Police Week to honor and pay homage to those who gave their lives in duty. See UHPD's moment of silence during National Police Week. Global Employee Health and Fitness Month The University Information Technology department wants to remind you that good habits don’t have to start at the gym, they can start at the office. Read more about how to build good habits. Asian American and Pacific Islander's Heritage Month The University of Houston embraces diversity and recognizes our responsibility to foster an open, welcoming environment where students, faculty, and staff of all backgrounds can collaboratively learn, work, and serve. This month, Equal Opportunity Services recognizes Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, which was officially designated by Presidential Proclamation in 2009. Request training on the EOS website. Houston Public Media Celebrates #AAPIHeritageMonth Houston Public Media is showcasing the AAPI community through numerous different programs on PBS all month. American Experience | Plague at the Golden Gate and Betrayed: Surviving an American Concentration Camp are only two of the many shows this month. See the rest of the programming and streaming films about the AAPI community. Facilities in Review Magazine The latest edition highlights awards and recognition that Facilities/Construction Management has achieved. Some of the features in this edition include how Project Management software revolutionizes customer service and a look at the new facilities team for labs and research, to name a few. Read the ‘Facilities in Review’ magazine to learn more. May is Mental Health Awareness Month A reminder from the university's Occupational Health Services: May is Mental Health Awareness Month. Mental Health includes our emotional, psychological, and social well-being. It affects how we think, feel, and act. It also helps determine how we handle stress, relate to others, and make healthy choices. Learn more about Mental Health Awareness Month. Phishing and Email Scams at UH University of Houston staff and students aren’t immune to phishing and email scams. The latest target is UH students who recently reported receiving job scam emails. These emails use UH alias email addresses to send job scams to trick students into applying, thus providing personal and sensitive information. Learn more about email scams and phishing emails and how you can better protect yourself. UH has a new employee assistance program provider Deer Oak EAP services is available to all UH benefits-eligible employees and their dependents. View an online EAP Orientation Webinar and the Human Resources Benefits page to learn more. You can also access Deer Oaks EAP Services on the go via the iConnectYou app! Public Art's Object Laboratory Now Open Public Art's Object Lab is now officially open. Run by Public Art UHS and the UH School of Art, the facility extends object-based co-curricular learning to the university campus, utilizing our collection as a conduit for the success of students enrolled in various programs. Learn more about Public Art's lab. Andy Warhol Exhibition to Open at UHCL Public Art's first traveling exhibition, "Instantaneous Beauty: Andy Warhol and the Photographic Process," opened on May 19th at its second venue, the University of Houston-Clear Lake Art Gallery. Learn more about the Andy Warhol Exhibit at UHCL. Houston Public Media Adds 'Asian View' News Segment Houston Public Media has added a new feature to our regular weekday lineup—Asian View. This new five-minute news segment is an international newscast produced by NHK WORLD-JAPAN, featuring the latest news and deep analysis on business, trade, and geopolitical news from Japan and across Asia. Learn more about Asian View. UHPD Participates in Diversity and Safety Summits Team members from the University of Houston Police Department attended the 2022 Diversity Institute, Good Trouble: Allyship in Action summit presented by the Center for Diversity and Inclusion in collaboration with the Center for Student Involvement and the Women & Gender Resource Center. Read more about what UHPD learned from these summits. Public Art Announces $20,000 Grant Opportunity Public Art is now accepting proposals from Texas-based artists and artist teams at the early stages of their careers for a $20,000 grant opportunity to design, fabricate, and install a temporary public artwork at the University of Houston, Louise J. Moran Fine Arts Courtyard in 2023. Applications are due May 30th. Help spread the word. Learn more about YardWorks. Global Accessibility Awareness Day The third Thursday of May is Global Accessibility Awareness Day (GAAD). This year, GAAD falls on May 19 and marks the 11th year it’s been acknowledged. GAAD's aim is to increase awareness of digital accessibility and access for individuals with disabilities. Please join Tammy Gardiner, Executive Director, Digital Accessibility and Equal Opportunity Services in celebrating Global Accessibility Awareness Day. Learn more about GAAD. Juneteenth Reminder On Thursday, June 16th, the Center of Diversity and Inclusion will host a Juneteenth celebration to honor the oldest nationally celebrated commemoration of the ending of slavery in the United States. From its Galveston, Texas origin in 1865, the observance of June 19th as the African American Emancipation Day has spread across the United States and beyond. Learn more about the Juneteenth celebration. Esmeralda Valdez and Las Comadres lead presentation at conference Esmeralda Valdez, Executive Director of University Services, participated with staff colleagues in the Las Comadres College Mentoring Program by leading an educational session at the 2022 Diversity Institute’s Good Trouble: Ally Ship in Action conference. Learn more about allyship in action. Student Resources UH Police Help is Only a Click Away "Summon Safety at Your Fingertips" through the UH Go app. With this new feature you can share your location and stay safe. For more detail about the UH Emergency Call feature, visit UH GO. Pay with your Digital Cougar Card You can now pay for your meals at Cougar Woods with your digital Cougar Card. It’s easy. Open your digital cougar card in the UH Go app. CougarQ Appointment Portal So much to do and not enough time to stand in line!? Don’t worry, you can get in line remotely or schedule an appointment! visit CougarQ in AccessUH. Sign up for updates from Parking You can sign up for text messege alerts from Parking and Transportation by Texting COOGPARK to 55744! Resources Career Frontier Professional development takes many forms, and Career Frontiers aims to help push people into new arenas to keep growing and avoid getting stagnant. Leading at higher levels allows you to impact more people. Sometimes moving laterally in your career ignites more opportunities for growth than one might think. Watch the latest Career Frontier episode for more information. Learn more about Career Frontiers. DocuSign Approved by the Texas Division of Information The university Controller's Office has announced that DocuSign digital signature solution has been selected for usage at UH campuses. This software will help students, faculty, and staff connect and automate preparation, management, and signatures of documents and agreements. Read more LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning offers a customized learning experience that features instructional content relevant to your professional interests and goals. UH Employees have unlimited access to more than 5,000 video tutorials covering business, creative and technology topics. HR Virtual Training To meet the training needs of our UH community, Human Resources is offering live virtual training programs covering a variety of topics. Take a tour of our training offerings to get started on your personal development journey today! Click for more information. PaymentWorks Vendor Help Information Accounts Payable created an online Vendor Setup and Update Guide to assist vendors with common UHS challenges. Voucher Creation Tips Training Accounts Payable is offering a Voucher Creation Tips training for employees who process or approve vouchers at any of the University of Houston System sites (University of Houston, University of Houston- Clear Lake, University of Houston - Downtown, or University of Houston - Victoria). When the Sirens Sound The University of Houston Outdoor Warning Siren System is designed to alert students, faculty, staff and visitors in the event of a shelter-in-place emergency where it is unsafe to be outdoors. The siren is activated by the University and provides a quick method of notifying the campus with an audible tone that can be heard outdoors. It is meant to alert everyone to seek shelter indoors.  Faculty, Student, Staff COVID-19 Testing Incentive Stay safe, get tested, get $2 Cougar Cash or ShastaBUCKS added to your account. By appointment only, the free testing service is located in front of the UH Student Center South from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. For more information, visit the UH COVID-19 website. DUO Increases Safety in Cybersecurity You may think YOU get a lot of mail….In reality, only about a third of all mail received by UH mail servers actually gets delivered to UH faculty, staff and student mailboxes. This is thanks to the UH System-wide implementation of Proofpoint, an email security solution that protects users from hackers, viruses, malicious software (malware), phishing and other potentially damaging attacks. UHS Enhanced Email Security You may think YOU get a lot of mail….In reality, only about a third of all mail received by UH mail servers actually gets delivered to UH faculty, staff and student mailboxes. This is thanks to the UH System-wide implementation of Proofpoint, an email security solution that protects users from hackers, viruses, malicious software (malware), phishing and other potentially damaging attacks. UH Bike Registration Students, faculty and staff who have a bicycle on campus are required to register it. Registration takes only minutes to complete and is free. A registration sticker will be provided and should be placed on the bicycle. Log in to your myParking account through AccessUH to register. Virtual Permits Coming Soon Parking and Transportation Services hosted information sessions to discuss the transition to virtual parking permits. Watch the video. UH Police Department - Crime Prevention Awareness Talks The UH Police Department is sharing safety tips and precautions that you can take to reduce the risk. to yourself and discourage those who commit crimes. The UH Go Blue Phone feature is another resource at your fingertips, along with the Security Escort Program, and Cougar Ride. Contact Sergeant Dina Padovan at preventcrime@uh.edu to schedule a crime prevention presentation or talk for your office or group. Virtual Meter Parking/Text-to-Pay UH Parking is enhancing the parking experience through the implementation of virtual meter parking. Payment is no longer accepted through physical meters. There is signage at each of the virtual meter locations on campus explaining how to pay to park in these visitor spaces, which are marked with orange striping. Learn more about the text-to-pay virtual meter parking. Accolades Congrats to A&F Cougar Cudos Honorees! Cougar Cudos goes to Henry Pham and George Rea, who were honored by Staff Council for exceptional service to the University in May. To nominate a fellow Staff member and learn more about Cougar Cudos. Ginger Walker Presents at the Annual PRIMR Conference Ginger Walker, Director, Emergency Management with the Office of Emergency Management, presented to the Preparedness Response Innovation Mitigation Recovery (PRIMR) Conference at the University of North Texas on March 7th. Read more here! Meet Roland Shaw, Payroll's New Executive Director Roland Shaw, the new executive director of payroll, has a wealth of experience that he brings to the role. Shaw graduated from TSU with an Economics degree and began his professional career with the Houston Independent School District. Read more here! Allen DeForde Wins TPTA Parking Employee Award Parking and Transportation Services Assistant Director Allen DeForde is the 2022 Parking Employee Award of Excellence winner from the Texas Parking and Transportation Association (TPTA). The announcement was made at TPTA’s annual conference in April. Read more here! A Mitchell Center Event Policing, Performance, and The Question of Reform The UH Cynthia Woods Mitchell Center for the Arts presents a special dialogue with artist, Shaun Leonardo and UH Chief of Police, Ceaser Moore, moderated by Deputy Director of Contemporary Art Museum Houston, Janice Bond: “Policing, Performance and the Question of Reform” on May 20, 2021. LEED “Green” Buildings are the New Normal for UH Buildings Cougar Woods Dining Hall was the first campus building to be certified as LEED Silver by the US Green Building Council . There are currently five campus construction projects in the pipeline to be LEED Silver Certified upon completion, including the new medical school. Learn more here. ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE AT A GLANCE 77trees planted last year 1 MILLION# of meals per year in the 2 dining commons Nearly 700UH System Collection Artworks $1.5 BILLIONinvested in facilities 4,000# of COAST participants Departments Campus Safety University of Houston is committed to ensuring a safe environment for students, faculty, staff and all visitors to our campus. Equal Opportunity Services The Office of Equal Opportunity Services acts on behalf of the University as a neutral fact finder that enforces the University’s Equal Opportunity Policies. Facilities/Construction Management Facilities Planning and Construction delivers exceptional and enduring projects that maximize value and support the University's Tier One strategic initiatives through superior facilities planning and project management services. Office of Finance The Office of Finance is the source for all financial information, training, reports and policies at the University of Houston. All finance-related forms, calendars and references can be found here. Houston Public Media Houston Public Media is a service of the University of Houston and supported with financial gifts from the community. Houston Public Media combines broadcast and digital assets to serve residents of Southeast Texas with quality local news and entertainment, as well as national programming from NPR and PBS. With a combined weekly audience of more than 1.5 million, Houston Public Media is committed to delivering content that expands minds and possibilities with trusted information. Human Resources To attract, develop, motivate, and retain a diverse and engaged workforce committed to supporting and enhancing the mission of the University. We accomplish this through providing Tier One customer service and partnering with the UHS community to maximize the potential of our greatest asset- Our Employees. Police Operations The University of Houston Police Department (UHPD) strives to enable students, faculty, staff and visitors to be safe while pursuing their on-campus endeavors. PAUHS With nearly 700 pieces, the UH System has one of the largest and most significant public art collections in the entire country. This new publication will be a platform for announcing the latest news involving the collection, highlighting various pieces, programs and events, and providing links to relevant news about the public art field. Office of Administration An exemplary portfolio of on-campus services ranging across third-party dining, parking, shuttle and bookstore operations among the program areas of Auxiliary and University Services, as well as system master planning through the UH System-wide Public Art Committee, an advisory committee to the UH System Board of Regents, and fundamental initiatives of best practices in sustainability, assessment and evaluation. Stay Cougar S.A.F.E. The University of Houston is an open campus filled with people who care about each other. Because of its open accessibility, all students, faculty and staff are encouraged to exercise a sense of personal responsibility for their own safety and well-being, and the safety and well-being of others. While crime can happen anywhere, when we act as a community that knows and cares about the safety of others, ourselves and our property, we lessen the likelihood of being victimized, and we showcase our Cougar Pride. UIT University Information Technology - Infotech - offers support across the board for all student, faculty, and staff IT requirements. News from A&F The A&F RSS Feed See all News Releases University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies