Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Media and Public RelationsMenu Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena Lamppost Memorials Honor Baylor Veterans Granite lampposts across campus bear plaques commemorating Baylor veterans who were killed while serving in the military. Photo courtesy of Karyn Simpson. The idea for the memorial lampposts began during World War II, when Baylor psychology professor Anna Martin wanted a way to recognize Baylor veterans who had given the ultimate sacrifice. Photos courtesy of Karyn Simpson There are now more than 140 memorial lampposts on campus, each bearing the name of a different Baylor veteran. Though the lampposts do not list much about the veterans, Frank Jasek, BBA '73, a book preservationist and library information specialist for Baylor University, used the information on the plaques to uncover the veterans' histories. He complied the stories, letters, and pictures he found into the book, "Soldiers of the Wooden Cross." Photo courtesy of Frank Jasek. In Jasek's book, "Soldiers of the Wooden Cross," each veteran is given a two-page spread filled with a short biography, photos, journal entries and letters to and from the veterans and their families. Photo courtesy of Frank Jasek. Tweet May 25, 2016 “Soldiers of the Wooden Cross” Tells Stories of Commemorated Veterans Follow us on Twitter: @BaylorUMedia Media contact: Lori Fogleman, (254) 710-6275 WACO, Texas (May 25, 2016) — Sometimes the small memorials are the most meaningful. Scattered across Baylor University’s campus are more than 140 granite memorial lampposts — silent stone sentinels that each bear a plaque commemorating a Baylor student who was killed in service. The memorial originated in 1946 on the suggestion of Baylor psychology professor Anna Martin. During World War II, Martin wrote and sold a newsletter focused on passing along information about Baylor men and women who were serving in the war. According to Frank Jasek, BBA ’73, a book preservationist and library information specialist for Baylor University, Martin wanted to honor Baylor students who had died in the war, so she used the proceeds from the newsletter to build memorial lampposts. Since then, lampposts and plaques have continued to be added across campus and now represent soldiers from every branch of the military from the Civil War to Operation Iraqi Freedom. The black, shield-shaped plaques each host a silver inscription bearing a veteran’s name, rank, division, years at Baylor and death date, immortalizing their memories in metal and stone. They are simple, elegant tributes to the sacrifices made by men and women for the sake of the United States, and the only thing they lack is a full story. Jasek noticed these plaques as he walked around Baylor’s campus years ago. He wanted to know the stories behind the names and began digging for information. “I just wanted to know who they were, what had happened to them,” he said. “I just started with one, and one thing leads to another … I never realized it was going to be this extensive.” After more than a decade of research, Jasek compiled his findings into a 323-page book, “Soldiers of the Wooden Cross,” that uses letters, photos, newspaper clippings, poems and original art to tell the stories of each veteran. The book allots a two-page spread to each veteran and includes a map of where each plaque is located so family members or curious readers can find particular names. “His goal was to open a window into each life for those who would see the name and wonder about the story. For each plaque, Jasek hunted down information, contacting family members, descendants, nieces, nephews or anyone who knew the individual,” wrote Grant Teaff, former Baylor football coach, in the forward of “Soldiers of the Wooden Cross.” As he researched, Jasek found veterans who had played in the band, been a part of the NoZe Brotherhood, been a member of the swim team or had worked for the Baylor Round Up and Lariat. When he could, he added photos of them as children, at Baylor or with their families. If photos weren’t available, Jasek created original paintings depicting scenes from their service. “Soldiers of the Wooden Cross” can be found at bookstores in Waco, Belton and Salado, as well as online at Jasek’s Facebook page. All proceeds from the book go to a scholarship fund that will be awarding its first scholarship this July. by Karyn Simpson, student newswriter, (254) 710-6805 ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 16,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 80 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. ABOUT THE BAYLOR UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES The Baylor University Libraries support excellence in teaching and learning, enhance research and discovery, and foster scholarship and success. Through its Central Libraries and special collections – Armstrong Browning Library, W.R. Poage Legislative Library and The Texas Collection – the Libraries serve as academic life centers that provide scholarly resources and technological innovation for the Baylor community and beyond. More News ... News Archives Looking for more news from Baylor University? Tweets by @BaylorUMedia Contact Us mail Media and Public Relations Baylor University One Bear Place #97024 Waco, TX 76798 tel (254) 710-1961 Email mediacomm@baylor.edu More Contact Info Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Baylor Bears 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Baylor Religion Survey Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Detecting Biomarkers for Cancer Eye Cancer App Helps Save Lives Exhuming Immigrant Remains Fighting Tropical Diseases Higgs Boson Research iCivics Baylor Model Life Patterns in Extreme Environments Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Small Business and Community Health Research Texas Hunger Initiative Water Quality Research Whale Earplug Reveals Lifetime Contaminant Exposure and Hormone Profiles Data Privacy Day 2019 Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Dean's Academic Honor List Graduation List Academic Scholarship Awards List Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena