Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Academics International Fellows Program For half a century, SIPA has offered through its International Fellows Program a unique course of graduate study that combines heightened understanding of international change with practical preparation to deal with the new world it is creating. You are here Home Academics IFP Video Video of IFP Video Columbia University is a global institution where students from around the world and faculty from all disciplines address the rapid political, economic, social, and intellectual transformations of our time. Through its International Fellows Program (IFP), Columbia’s School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA) has for half a century offered students a unique course of graduate study that combines a heightened understanding of international change with practical preparation to deal with the new world it is creating. The International Fellows Program is a two-semester seminar open to students of all graduate degree programs at Columbia University. The diverse perspectives and professional backgrounds that fellows bring to the program enrich their year-long common enterprise. All fellows receive a stipend and study a curriculum with two goals – to examine the origins of the current international order, in which the United States has for decades played the leading role, and to look ahead to the new world that will eventually take its place, dominated by a larger number of actors, new problems, and approaches to problem solving that have yet to be defined. Weekly meetings of the International Fellows Program are supplemented by study trips to Washington, D.C., and the United Nations, where fellows have extraordinary access to senior policymakers, diplomats, legislators, journalists, and leaders of non governmental organizations. CURRICULUM During their first of two semesters in IFP, students develop an understanding of the emergence of the United States as a dominant world power, including a historical review of U.S. foreign policy. Particular attention is paid to key episodes and to developments over the past two decades. To complement the discussion, students read major memoirs and other appropriate texts. In their second semester, students focus on a world that has become less American in recent years, considering questions of globalization and emerging powers. To complement the discussion, students will be assigned to study key instruments and issues related to globalization. Throughout both semesters, students will meet with current practitioners and other outside speakers, write and present policy papers, and visit the United Nations and key policymakers in Washington, D.C. Program Requirements The International Fellows Program (IFP) is open to any student pursuing a graduate or PhD program at Columbia University. All candidates are asked to submit a résumé or CV, transcripts, and a statement of interest (no longer than 300 words) for consideration, in addition to a letter of recommendation. For students applying to SIPA: Students may submit an IFP statement of interest as part of their application for admission to SIPA. The résumé, transcript(s), and letters of recommendation submitted to the Office of Admissions will be used in consideration for the International Fellows Program. The application for the Fall 2022 semester is due along with your SIPA Fall application. For continuing SIPA and non-SIPA students: Please submit an application online available at the link on this page. The deadline for the Fall 2022 semester is May 2, 2021. Applications are evaluated on the basis of academic records, professional promise, recommendations from previous instructors, and an applicant’s demonstrated and estimated ability to emerge as a leader of his or her chosen field and in the field of international affairs. Leadership Stephen Sestanovich is the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Professor at SIPA and director of the International Fellows Program. His professional interests include American foreign policy, post-Soviet affairs, and strategic planning. Ambassador Sestanovich’s diverse career includes service both in and out of government. He has held senior positions in the U.S. Department of State and the National Security Council, at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Please send questions about the IFP or application process to Toumai Kafri and Daniel De la Torre Velasco. 2022-2023 IFP Applications The Applications for the 2022-23 IFP cohort are now closed. Contact Us Stephen Sestanovich Director Columbia University School of International & Public Affairs 420 West 118 Street New York, NY 10027 [email protected] For Program and application questions, please contact: Toumai Kafri [email protected] Daniel De la Torre Velasco [email protected] International Fellows Program Alumni Share This Alumni Profile: World Bank VP & Treasurer Jingdong Hua MPA '03 Video of Alumni Profile: World Bank VP &amp;amp; Treasurer Jingdong Hua MPA &amp;#039;03 Alumni Spotlight SIPA’s focus on being the intersection between policy and practice is really quite central in terms of addressing some of the challenges in the world today. Jingdong Hua EMPA 03 Vice President and Treasurer The World Bank Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216