Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Theatre & Dance About Academic Programs Admissions People Production Archives Purchase Tickets Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Academic Programs Undergraduate BFA About the BFAPerformanceMusical TheatreDesign/Technical ProductionDanceDance Science Graduate MFA About the MFA MFA Curriculum Scholarships Application Process Take Action 2022-2023 Season Prospective Students Watch Me – Theatre Video UofM Ranked Among Top Dance Programs in the Nation Follow Us On Social Media InstagramFacebook Home Theatre & Dance Programs MFA Assistantships MFA Scholarships We offer scholarship opportunities up to full tuition and the opportunity to work in the department for an additional stipend. Graduate students are offered the opportunity to work in one of following areas: scenic production, lighting & sound production, costume construction, publicity or teaching Introduction to Theatre. The Job Each student has the opportunity to be assigned to a production area related to their field or to an area of interest. All areas ask that the Graduate Assistant help supervise and teach undergraduate laboratory students. This arrangement allows the GA to begin teaching before entering the classroom environment. Also, it provides the opportunity to practice one's skills and pass them on to another theatre artist. We do not require you to be an expert in your assigned area, only that you be willing to learn. Scenic Production A GA working in the area of scenic production will be asked to build, paint and rig scenery as well as help our lab students who are learning to do the same. We work every weekday afternoon and the occasional Saturday (for special needs such as floor paint). One person in this area is chosen to oversee the properties area for the season. Costume Construction The costume shop is open weekday afternoons. GAs in this area are responsible for costume construction and alterations according to their level of expertise and desire to learn new skills. Some may be assigned to millinery and costume crafts. There are occasional Saturday work calls and dress parade responsibilities. Costume GAs help to supervise the undergraduate production lab students. Lighting & Sound Production The GAs in this area oversee all aspects of light hangs, sound rig and set up as well as daily maintenance of lighting systems and projects. Lighting & sound GAs work Monday through Thursday weekly, and cover technical rehearsals and light hang on selected weekends. Promotion and Publicity A GA in this area would act as an assistant to the Promotion & Publicity Director. This includes creating show posters and other promotional devices and press releases. The job also entails overseeing box office operations, house management and ushers and being the department tour guide. Introduction to Theatre Instructor A GA in this area would teach two sections of Introduction to Theatre (or related introductory level courses) each semester, after first shadowing a faculty professor the previous term to acquire teaching skills. They are the teachers of record, solely responsible for lectures, discussions, exams and grading their classes, performing all the duties and responsibilities of a professor. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/10/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.