Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Here, We Do High-Impact Research Here, We Do High-Impact Research Research universities push the frontiers of knowledge. As knowledge grows, we all use it in ways that are both intentional and surprising. At Texas, we focus on high-impact research that will create a healthier and safer future. The ‘Moonshots’ of Our Time The university has launched campus-wide “grand challenges” that combine intellectual firepower from widely diverse disciplines to attack problems in new and creative ways. Planet Texas 2050 examines the challenges of rapid population growth in Texas and what it means for water, electricity, and transportation. Whole Communities—Whole Health is developing a community-centered approach to learning about health factors such as sleep, air quality, and emotional and social wellbeing. Good Systems is striving to embed ethics and prosocial values in the design of artificial intelligence. The Texas Advantage Among UT’s unique advantages in research, it is home to some of the most powerful supercomputers in the world, used to study weather emergencies, the spread of disease, and thousands of other areas. UT is helping build the largest optical telescope on earth, the Giant Magellan Telescope in Chile. Big Science with Big Partners UT attracts more than $650 million a year in research grants and contracts. In 2017, it won the largest contract in its history when the U.S. Navy awarded Applied Research Laboratories at UT a contract worth as much as $1.1 billion over 10 years to improve national security. Texas is home to one of just five University Affiliated Research Centers that have long-term strategic relationships with the Navy. Faculty members and research staff are also partnering with the U.S. Army Futures Command, now based in Austin. What does it mean to be human? Texas does groundbreaking research across the humanities and social sciences, like psychology, sociology, and No. 1-ranked Latin American studies — helping us better understand who we are, how we got here, and where we’re headed. Finding Energy Solutions Texas is unlocking oil and gas resources that have revitalized America’s energy sector. We’re developing the next-generation of high-efficiency batteries. And we’re leading America’s mission to find new forms of energy frozen in the ocean depths. UT is a pioneer in offering multidisciplinary energy and Earth resource degrees. Doing Research as a Freshman We’re cultivating genius, and that’s essential for our survival on this planet. Learn More Our Not-So-Secret Weapon Texas Advanced Computing Center designs and deploys the world's most powerful advanced computing technologies and innovative software solutions to enable researchers to answer complex questions. Learn More First-Class is Public We Do High-Impact Research We’re Transforming Health Care We Create a More Vibrant Texas Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022