Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home News 2022 Grad Profile: Fabio Reato Profile 2022 Grad Profile: Fabio Reato April 27, 2022 Fabio Reato Undergraduate Where are you from? L’Aquila, Italy Major: Financial economics Tell us about your path to GS! I’m a former soccer player. When I was 14, I moved to Milan (500 miles from my hometown) because I was recruited by the AC Milan Youth Academy. I lived in a dorm with other youth players and it was one of the best experiences of my life. At 18, I went professional and played for four years in the Italian 3rd division, but three knee surgeries forced me to retire. After retiring, I contacted an old friend who was playing in Kansas City and he put me in touch with his college’s men’s soccer coach. I got a scholarship to Rockhurst University and spent three semesters there as a player, assistant coach, and student. One day I was doing CrossFit in Kansas City and I overheard a guy from New York City talking with someone. I introduced myself and told him my dream was to live in NYC and we became friends. I visited NYC after a couple months and he invited me for lunch with his friends who all turned out to be GS alumni! I was already applying to other NYC schools but never thought about Columbia because it seemed impossible. However, after learning about GS and the GS process, I applied and ended up at Columbia. What has been your proudest Columbia moment? Definitely the acceptance email; I got accepted on July 15. I was in the subway about to jump on a train but then I received an email saying my application status was updated. I skipped the train and opened the portal. When I saw that I was accepted, it was a very emotional moment. Who are some people who have contributed the most to your Columbia experience? My friend Peter was the first person I have ever met at Columbia. He was my orientation group leader and we’ve become very close friends during these three years. My advisor Dean Stephen O’Connell was also a precious guide, even though we only met three times in person (because of the pandemic)! What are your plans for after graduation? For now, I’m planning to go back to my old passion: soccer. I’m opening a business related to soccer and would love to get more involved in coaching. What advice would you give to a Columbia student starting their GS journey? Talk to your professors, ask for advice and support. There will be days when you get a grade that you don’t like. That doesn’t mean that you are not a valuable student: move on! Columbia is full of talented students and you might feel a bit afraid of academically challenging them. But with hard work, you will get amazing results, so don’t be afraid of anything. Tags Student Profile Undergraduate News May 27, 2022 Join Us: Columbia Reunion Weekend in New York City May 26, 2022 Lewisohn Hall Summer Closure | Summer 2022 Temporary Relocation to Uris Hall May 26, 2022 Postbac Premed Program Institutional Scholarship Application May 24, 2022 GS Celebrates the Class of 2022 at Class Day Ceremony May 24, 2022 Academic Resource Center Summer Offerings Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close