Skip to main content Skip to main content Follow Us Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Skip to main content Log In Log In Student Login Log In Instructor Login Log In Canvas Login Canvas Login My Profile My Applications My Enrollment History My Certificate Plan My Account My Saved Items Log Off Contact Us Contact Us Help Help <span class="sr-only">Number of items in the shopping cart: </span><span id="cartCount"></span> Number of items in the shopping cart: Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Program Search Programs and Courses Areas of Study Career Building College Prep Communications & Marketing Creative Development Design & UX Engineering & Technology Humanities & Fine Arts Languages Legal & Finance Management & Leadership Program Types Certificate Programs Short Courses Corporate Programs & Customized Learning Instructors Resources for Current Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for CAPE Instructors Become a CAPE Instructor Propose a Course Help Center New Students Payment Options & Financing Veterans Benefits FAQ Current Students Student Portal Canvas Zoom Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for Instructors Policies & Procedures Parking & Maps About About Us Contact Us Blog Navigate Search Skip to main content CAPE Program Search All Programs & Courses All Programs & Courses Areas of Study Certificate Programs SMU College Prep Customized Learning Short Courses Areas of Study Areas of Study Career Building Communications and Marketing Creative Development Design and UX Engineering and Technology Humanities and Fine Arts Languages Legal and Finance Management and Leadership Courses Instructors Instructors Propose a Course Help Center Help Center Canvas for CAPE Courses Information about SMU NetIDs Frequently Asked Questions Instructor Portal Parking & Maps Payment Options and Financing Policies and Procedures Student Portal Digital Badges Adding Your SMU Certificate Credential to LinkedIn Veterans Zoom About SMU CAPE About SMU CAPE Contact Us ☰ CAPE Help Center Policies and Procedures Policies and Procedures COVID-19 Information SMU continues to place the highest priority on the health and well-being of our campus community and expects everyone to practice good preventive hygiene and regularly monitor their health. Learn more about SMU’s comprehensive efforts to maintain a healthy campus on Mustang Strong, the SMU COVID-19 website. General Policies Class sizes are limited for optimal interaction with instructors. Please register early to secure a spot. In rare cases, insufficient enrollment may cause cancellation. Upon registration, you will receive a confirmation with detailed location and parking information. Credit cards and checks are accepted as tuition payment. Some classes require students to purchase additional textbooks or supplies; others do not. SMU Continuing and Professional Education (CAPE) reserves the right to substitute instructors, change course locations, cancel courses, adjust curricula or schedules, or limit enrollment. By participating in SMU CAPE courses, a participant agrees to abide by all University policies, including the SMU Student Code of Conduct and the SMU Code of Ethics. Failure to abide by these policies may result in participant dismissal. Online Courses Policies vary by course. Please refer to the course information for the policy or call 214-768-2273 if you have questions. How to Register Registration is quick and easy online. Browse and register for classes by subject, instructor or location. American Express, Discover, Mastercard and Visa are accepted. If you call or come by our office, a staff member will be happy to assist you with the registration process. Students must register before attending a course; instructors are unable to accept registration fees or walk-in students who are not officially registered. Cancellations, Refunds and Transfers In unusual situations, a refund or transfer may be requested. At SMU CAPE, we understand that your time is valuable. We pledge excellent customer service worthy of your expectations, and provide the following options*: Before class begins: Students may receive a refund, minus processing fees, depending on program-specific terms and days remaining before class start date. Students may transfer to another course free of charge if space is available. Students may elect to have full tuition placed in escrow to be used personally or by someone else within one year. After class begins: No refunds are offered. Students may transfer to another course free of charge if space is available. Students may elect to have funds placed in escrow to be used within one year depending on program-specific terms. Refunds are not permitted for money placed into escrow. If you need assistance with a cancellation, refund or transfer, please contact our team at 214-768-2273 or smuthink@smu.edu *Please note: The SMU Certified Financial Planning Certificate Program carries slightly different policies; please email smupro@smu.edu for details. Transcripts for Non-Credit Certificate Programs Transcripts for noncredit certificate programs are available upon request. Transcripts cost $10 each. Please call 214-768-2273 to place your request and make your payment via American Express, Discover, Mastercard or Visa. Transcripts are processed within two business days of your paid request. SMU Inclement Weather Policy For more information on SMU's inclement weather policy, please click here. Help Center Canvas for CAPE Courses Information about SMU NetIDs Frequently Asked Questions Instructor Portal Parking & Maps Payment Options and Financing Policies and Procedures Student Portal Digital Badges Adding Your SMU Certificate Credential to LinkedIn Veterans Zoom Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University 5539 SMU Blvd, Dallas, TX 75206 instagram twitter linkedin facebook