Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Education Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories New Documentary on Health Disparities Features Columbia Doctor Columbia pediatrician Hetty Cunningham appears in "The Color of Care," a new documentary about racial health disparities and their consequences during the COVID-19 pandemic. Topic Campus News Students Hear from Roy Vagelos, First-Generation College Student Members of the VP&S Class of 2025 met with Roy Vagelos, 1954 graduate of VP&S, whose success in medicine and business grew out of his Greek immigrant background in New Jersey. Topic Campus News The Student Experience The COVID pandemic transformed students’ education but also imparted profound experiences that students say will make them stronger practitioners and leaders. Topic Infectious Diseases Building Better Representation in Psychiatry’s Ranks A Columbia summer program for medical students is working to increase the number of psychiatrists from historically underrepresented groups. Topic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Latest News Columbia’s Black Pioneers in Medicine February 2, 2022 From 19th century medical students denied their degrees to today's surgeons, many Black clinicians have connections to Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Topic Campus News Faculty Confront Structural Racism in Health Care By Brittany King November 30, 2021 VP&S faculty have joined the fight against structural racism by proposing and implementing a variety of pilot programs designed to impact both medical education and patient care. Topic Medical School Program Between Columbia and United Negro College Fund Links HBCUs and CUIMC September 27, 2021 The E.E. Just Scholars program provides students at historically black colleges and medical schools with summer internships in biomedical research at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Topic Campus News Columbia Nursing Launches DNP in Nurse Anesthesia September 16, 2021 The School of Nursing will admit the first nurse anesthesia residents to its Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Nurse Anesthesia Program in 2022. Topic Nursing New Dental Students Welcomed in White Coat Ceremony September 3, 2021 The 84 new students in the College of Dental Medicine donned their white coats for the first time and were welcomed into the profession by the school's faculty. Topic Campus News Columbia Medical Students Start New Emergency Medicine Clerkship August 10, 2021 Columbia medical students used to experience emergency medicine briefly during other rotations, but now the specialty has its own clerkship in the second year, earlier than most other schools. Topic Medical School VP&S Medical Students Welcome Incoming MD Class with “In the Heights”-Inspired Performance June 14, 2021 Watch a video performance created by current medical students for Columbia’s newest MD students in the VP&S Class of 2025 as an introduction to the medical campus and its surrounding neighborhood. Topic Campus News VP&S Marks 100 Years of Women MD Graduates May 19, 2021 This year marks the 100-year anniversary of the admission of women to medical school at Columbia. Topic Medical School VP&S, Nursing, and Mailman in Top 5 of New Grad School Rankings March 30, 2021 Columbia University’s medical, nursing, and public health schools have been ranked among the top five U.S. graduate schools in their respective categories by U.S. News & World Report. Topic Campus News VP&S Class of 2023 Begins Major Clinical Year in Ongoing Pandemic January 7, 2021 During a virtual Steven Z. Miller Student Clinician's Ceremony, second-year medical students celebrated their transition to patient-centered learning. Topic Campus News Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top