Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Cornell researchers: ‘Let your baby do the talking’ Posted on August 21, 2019 By College of Arts and Sciences (CAS), Media Relations and News Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X SPEAKER: See, no more birds in the house unless we decide to put some of them back in the house. MICHAEL GOLDSTEIN: Traditionally, we've thought about parenting as a one-way street, that parents provide information that little babies pick up, but what we've learned in this lab is that it's really a two-way street. Babies babble and they do other things that get their parents to respond to them. That then changes the babies. That then changes the parents. [BABY BABBLING] What we're finding is that instead of the parents worrying about how much they're doing at the baby, what they need to do is sort of sit back and let the babies do things. Let the babies babble. Listen to what the babies are doing instead of just talking at your baby. And when the babies do their cute little babbling, their little immature behaviors, we find that parents naturally react to that, and babies can use those reactions to learn new things. Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. When parents talk to their babies, they tend to use more complex language than if they wait and react to their baby’s babbling. This according to new research published by Cornell University’s Michael Goldstein, associate professor and director of the Eleanor J. Gibson Laboratory of Developmental Psychology. More About babies child development human development language learning developmental psychology linguistics What to watch next 56:38 MyPlaylist Child Language Acquisition and Growth 46:16 MyPlaylist The Surprising Rationality of Young Children's Learning 1:06:00 MyPlaylist The Environment of Childhood Poverty surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×