Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Department of Mathematics Visiting the Department of Mathematics Thank you for planning a visit to the Brown University Department of Mathematics. Here is some important information that may be useful to you. All visitors and guests must comply with current University policy regarding face masks and coverings for vaccinated and unvaccinated Brown community members and visitors and guests, which can be found on the University’s COVID-19 Campus Activity Status page. TRAVEL Other than driving, there are several ways to come to campus. RIPTA (RI bus lines)- located at Kennedy Plaza in downtown Providence Peter Pan Bus - 2 locations in Providence Amtrak and Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority (MBTA) - located at the Providence Train Station T.F. Green Airport - located in Warwick, RI, just a 15 minute drive from campus Logan Airport - located in Boston, MA, an approximate 1.5 hour drive from campus PARKING Visitors may find parking in Lot 68 Upper, also called the Power Street Parking Garage, located at 111 Power Street. The garage entrance is located at the intersection of Power and Thayer Streets (View Map). The garage has two gate arms which are left open. Please enter in the right lane and exit via the left lane. The Lot 68 Upper garage contains two pay stations, which are located at the front and rear of the garage. Please locate an empty parking space, purchase your visitor parking permit via a pay station and place your receipt permit on your vehicle dashboard. Duration Rate Mon - Fri 8am - 6pm $3.00/hour All Day Rate until 6pm (Monday - Friday) $15.00 Weekdays after 6pm, weekends, holidays $2.00/hour The pay stations accept credit cards and U.S. bills. However, the pay stations do not supply change so please use the exact amount of bills. Please allow plenty of time for parking, as the visitor lot is a few blocks from the Campus Center. ADA Visitor Parking Brown maintains visitor spaces that meet ADA standards for accessibility in Lot 65, which is located on the south side of Benevolent Street between Thayer and Brook streets. Any valid state ADA placard may be used in any ADA space in the lot to park for FREE. Street Parking Visitors may find metered parking on the streets in and around campus. These meters take both cash and credit cards and costs 25 cents for every 12 minutes. Metered spaces allow for a maximum 2-hour parking. Please pay close attention to on-street signs marked for Brown Permit Parking. These spaces require a Brown employee daytime parking permit between 8am-12pm. TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT If the department is reimbursing your travel expenses, please fill out the Supplier and Individual Payee Registration Form and send all original, itemized receipts to the department administrator. Without this, Brown will not be able to process your reimbursement request. When making your travel arrangements please be aware that Brown can only reimburse payment for coach seats for airfare and train tickets. Reimbursement requests must be submitted within 60 days from the date of your trip. (Brown considers expense requests that are over 60 days to be income, which would be reported on your W-2 form.) Please click here if you are a foreign national requesting reimbursement. Also in Department of Mathematics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Research Seminars Courses Events Positions Available Diversity & Inclusion Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mathematics Brown University Box 1917 151 Thayer Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2708 Fax: 401-863-9013 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat