Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Journalism and Strategic Media About B.A. Program M.A. Program People Syllabi Student Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact M.A. Program M.A. Program Courses M.A. Program Emphases Integrated Strategic MediaNews and StorytellingVisual MediaMass Media Research M.A. Capstone Information Graduate Certificate JRSM Graduate Certificates Entrepreneurial Journalism Multimedia Storytelling Social Media Analysis and Strategy Graduate Handbook Tentative Schedule How to Apply Take Action Apply to our Undergraduate Program Apply to our Master's Program Contact Us AEJMC 2022 Southeast Colloquium Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home JRSM M.A. Program Multimedia Storytelling Graduate Certificate in Multimedia Storytelling The Graduate Certificate in Multimedia Storytelling offers students both practical and theoretical instruction in storytelling using multimedia technology: words, pictures, graphics, video, audio and social media. The certificate program emphasizes the technical expertise needed to create multimedia projects and the reporting and storytelling skills needed to create compelling content in today's media market. Objectives of the program include: To teach students the technical skills needed to produce multimedia projects in today's media environment. Technical skills taught: writing, photography, video, design, audio and social media. To teach students how to create compelling content from a variety of sources, topics and fields. Requirements The Graduate Certificate in Multimedia Storytelling requires 12 hours. Students are required to take JRSM 7350 Advanced Multimedia Reporting, and JRSM 7510 Information Design. Then students would choose two of these courses: JOUR 6150 – Sports Writing/Reporting JOUR 6155 – Multimedia Sports Reporting JOUR 6160 – Food Writing/Reporting JOUR 6170 – Business Writing/Reporting JOUR 6180 – Public Issues Writing/Reporting JOUR 6190 – Opinion Writing/Reporting JOUR 6530 – Innovative Storytelling JOUR 6629 – TV News Writing/Reporting JOUR 6639 – Television News Producing JRSM 7124 – Data Journalism How to apply Applicants for the Multimedia Storytelling certificate program must satisfy all the requirements of the University Graduate School as set out in the Graduate Bulletin. The Graduate School collects your application, transcripts, goal statement and resume, and when complete, forwards them to the Department of Journalism and Strategic Media to consider for admission to the journalism certificate program. All other admissions requirements are the same as for the regular program (see above). Continuing beyond the certificate All of the classes taken in the certificate program will count toward your Master's degree if you are admitted to the Department of Journalism and Strategic Media's master's degree program. You will have up to eight years to complete the program. The time starts the semester that you take your first graduate course. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/9/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.