COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Spanish, Major MajorSpanish All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Modern and Classical Languages and Literatures Wichita State's Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Modern and Classical Languages and Literatures (MCLL)—Spanish specialization—combines a full range of language study with the option for you to also become a qualified Spanish teacher in PreK-12 through the College of Applied Studies. You'll have access to study-abroad opportunities, informal conversation groups and the Music and Languages Innovation Center's vast resources. And you'll be well prepared to pursue an advanced degree—and to apply your language abilities in a variety of careers, from translating to teaching. Learn how Spanish is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum The major consists of 33 credit hours beyond the SPAN 112 level. It is strongly recommended that students specializing in Spanish take courses in related fields such as other foreign languages, art history, English, history and philosophy. If you choose to pursue the teacher-education option, you should contact the MCLL office. View the curriculum Careers A degree in Spanish from Wichita State will give you the knowledge and skills to pursue an advanced language degree—and opens doors to careers at home and abroad. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Spanish (Minor) International Business Education - Spanish (PreK-12) Linguistics (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©