Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Mental Health Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Depression Psychiatry Top Stories Mental Health Care in AAPI Communities: Overcoming Language, Stigma, and Other Barriers Language differences, stigma, and the "model minority" myth prevent many people in Asian American and Pacific Islander communities from getting mental health care. Topic Campus News Making the Most of Telehealth for Talk Therapy Most mental health problems can be addressed via telehealth, says Columbia psychiatrist Deborah Cabaniss, and there are things patients can do to make the most of their sessions. Topic Campus News CUIMC Initiative Receives Federal Community Project Funding The COVID-19 Northern Manhattan Community Mental Wellness Corps, a new initiative to address mental health disparities in Northern Manhattan and parts of the Bronx, has received federal funding. Topic Campus News New Study Identifies Gaps in Emergency Care for Youth in Crisis New survey reveals that pediatric emergency departments need more guidance to help children and adolescents with mental health crises. Topic Pediatrics Latest News Columbia Scientists Identify Gene Variants Linked to Severe Schizophrenia December 15, 2021 New insights into the genetic architecture of schizophrenia hold promise for improved risk prediction and the development of better drugs to treat the disease. Topic Psychiatry Columbia Primary Care Removes Barriers to Improve Mental Health December 13, 2021 A new program at ColumbiaDoctors embeds behavioral health specialists alongside primary care providers to care for patients’ mental health needs. Topic Campus News Eating Got You Anxious? December 8, 2021 For people with eating disorders, the focus on food during the holiday season can be problematic. Columbia psychologist Lisa Ranzenhofer has strategies for coping with the anxiety. Talk Therapy by U.S. Psychiatrists Declined By Half Since 1990s December 8, 2021 A study by Columbia researchers found that between 1996 and 2016 the percentage of psychiatrist visits involving psychotherapy declined by half—dropping to only 21.6% of patient visits. Topic Psychiatry Cannabis Use Disorder Rising Significantly During Pregnancy November 3, 2021 As more states legalize cannabis for medical or recreational purposes, its use during pregnancy is increasing along with the potential for abuse or dependence. Topic Public Health Ketamine Rapidly Improves Cognitive Function, Making Those in Suicidal Crisis Less Likely to Harm Themselves November 3, 2021 Five-year Columbia clinical trial indicates rapid cognitive shift diminishes suicidal thoughts, independently of improvement in depressive symptoms. Topic Psychiatry Excess Risk of Self-Injury Linked to Autism October 22, 2021 The rate of self-harm is three times higher in people with autism spectrum disorder, a study by Columbia researchers has found. Topic Public Health Columbia Psychiatry Launches Mobile Depression App October 19, 2021 A new digital support tool, Columbia Psychiatry Pathways, strengthens the ability of clinicians to provide critical mental health services for individuals with major depression. Topic Depression Bullying and Children: What Parents Need to Know October 13, 2021 October is National Bullying Prevention Month and Anne Marie Albano, PhD, an expert in child and adolescent psychology, explains how parents can recognize bullying and help their children. Topic Depression Just How Harmful Is Social Media? October 4, 2021 Two mental health experts at Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health and Columbia Psychiatry discuss how social media affects the mental health of young people and adults. Topic Public Health Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top