Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Community Learning Resources As a community of educators, students, and lifelong learners, we're committed to a process of authentic self-reflection and a deeper pursuit of knowledge about how best to teach, learn, and engage with one another in a way that honors the values of diversity, equity, and inclusion. These resources — developed by HGSE and collaborators across Harvard — can support those goals. Tools for Developing Inclusive Syllabi This 9-page tool helps you examine the inclusivity of your syllabus along multiple dimensions and provides guidance for making it more inclusive. View or download the resource guide (pdf). Teaching in Times of Strife and Trauma This 2-page annotated and curated guide offers actionable ideas for teaching in traumatic times; teaching during elections; discussing difficult topics; and anti-racist, equitable teaching. View or download the curated resources (pdf). Nurturing Voices that Challenge the Dominant Narrative A video guide from HGSE's Instructional Moves helps teachers create safe and open environments in which to wrestle with difficult conversation topics. Calling on Students in Equitable Ways A video guide from Instructional Moves helps teachers ensure that their strategies of soliciting participation are fair, inclusive, and purposeful. Resources for the Harvard Community The Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Office works across the University with stakeholders and partners to guide Harvard’s culture toward sustainable and inclusive excellence. Explore the University's diversity, inclusion, and belonging resources. Facilitating Hot Moments in Classroom Discussion This 4-page resource provides guidance on how to facilitate difficult conversations, ranging from the big-picture view of how to prepare before the discussion begins to the details of how a particular intervention might look and sound. View or download the self assessment guide (pdf). Black America and COVID-19 A collaboration between HGSE and the Harvard Library, this research guide seeks to document the experience of COVID-19 across Black communities in America, including ties to the historical legacy of race in America. Explore the research guide. Gutman Library's Guide to Racial Justice Resources A continuously growing archive of teaching and learning materials — books, videos, lesson plans, activist resources — about race, racial justice and anti-racism. Visit the Racial Justice Resources site. Gender Pronoun Resource Guide Recommendations on inclusivity of transgender and gender nonconforming students and staff, from the Harvard College Women’s Center. View or download the resource guide (pdf). HGSE’s Teaching and Learning Lab (TLL) offers more resources on teaching for diversity, equity, and anti-racism. TLL's Instructional Resources toolkit. Widen Layout: wide In this section Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Community Learning Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice