Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News > In the News > 2022 > ‘Ebola hunter’ Jean-Jacques Muyembe receives Harvard honorary degree News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift ‘Ebola hunter’ Jean-Jacques Muyembe receives Harvard honorary degree Jean-Jacques Muyembe May 26, 2022 – Jean-Jacques Muyembe, a Congolese microbiologist who leads public health emergency responses in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), including for COVID-19, is one of Harvard University’s honorary degree recipients for 2022. Muyembe is head of the DRC’s Institut National de la Recherche Biomédicale in Kinshasa and the inaugural president of the Congolese Academy of Science. He was the first to discover the Ebola virus during his work in the first-ever outbreak in 1976, in central Congo. He took blood samples from a sick patient and sent them to be identified in Belgium, where colleagues had an electron microscope. Scientists there and in the U.S. were able to verify a new virus that caused hemorrhagic fever. Muyembe also led the design of the first effective treatment against the virus, and pioneered the deployment of experimental Ebola vaccines. In 2009, he co-authored a paper demonstrating that the Ebola outbreaks in the DRC were due to fruit bat exposure. A 2015 Lancet article described Muyembe as “Africa’s Ebola hunter.” Muyembe has worked hard to build the DRC’s scientific capacity, establishing multiple research facilities in the country. He has also played key roles with the World Health Organization in fighting infectious diseases, and has received a number of prestigious awards and honors, including being named to Time magazine’s list of the 100 most influential people of 2020. Read a Harvard Gazette article: Harvard to award seven honorary degrees Read an NPR article: This Congolese Doctor Discovered Ebola But Never Got Credit For It—Until Now Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Subscribe The COVID-19 Update Our researchers are on the front lines of the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sign up here to receive our weekly newsletter highlighting their efforts. Join mailing list Additional newsletters and mailing lists Related Articles COVID-19 Ebola infectious diseases vaccines Machine learning tool can predict which COVID variants will cause case surges The latest on the coronavirus Sikhulile Moyo named one of TIME magazine’s 100 most influential for 2022 More on this topic What will it be like when COVID-19 becomes endemic? Creating an early detection system for infectious diseases in Africa Marc Lipsitch, Pardis Sabeti elected to National Academy of Medicine More on this topic The latest on the coronavirus Clearer guidance needed for risky pathogen experiments A better antibiotic for tuberculosis treatment More on this topic Perspective: Tobacco messaging holds lessons for COVID-19 vaccine campaigns Masking on planes is ‘good public health sense,’ says expert A hematologist’s challenges during COVID More on this topic Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website