Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions Apply Visit Contact Admissions Student Life Meet Kekst Graduate School Alumni Tuition & Fees Financial Aid & Fellowships Admissions Overview Students at the Gershon Kekst Graduate School learn at the highest level with world-renowned faculty who are deeply committed to Jewish scholarship. We offer the most extensive Jewish studies program in North America, awarding master’s and doctoral degrees in 15 areas of specialization and providing access to the greatest collection of Judaica in the Western Hemisphere. If you are looking to deepen your Jewish learning by studying texts in their original language, you will find at the Kekst Graduate School a diverse community of passionate, serious scholars whose creative thinking and innovative work will enrich organizations, institutions, and communities around the world. Degree Programs Explore our extensive offerings, including areas of specialization, specific courses, opportunities to enroll in classes at Columbia University and Union Theological Seminary, and more. For those with a background in Hebrew, there is also a one-year master’s in Jewish Studies.w MA DHL PhD Certificate Programs As a student in the Gershon Kekst Graduate School, you can earn a certificate in Jewish Ethics with or without pursuing an MA. Students can also earn a certificate in Pastoral Care and Counseling in conjunction with the MA program or through independent study. Jewish Ethics Center for Pastoral Education Applications and Deadlines Find details on MA, DHL, and PhD application requirements and process, as well as information on the non-degree program and other flexible study options. MA Application DHL Application PhD Application Certificate Non-Degree Alexandra Ross, Graduate School student, I came to The Graduate School to learn from prominent scholars in the field who could help me access a world that I hadn’t yet tapped. Alexandra Ross, Graduate School student, Visit JTS Coming to campus is a great way for prospective students to learn about the Kekst Graduate School and to get a feel for our community. Find information about coordinating a meeting with a faculty member in your desired field, tours, and more. Register for a Visit Meet the Admissions Team Tuition, Financial Aid, and Fellowships Learn about merit- and need-based partial tuition fellowships for MA and DHL applicants, merit-based fellowships for PhD candidates, applying for loans, and more. Tuition and Fees Financial Aid & Fellowships Events Right now there are no event listings for this location or category. Our calendar is updated regularly. Please check back. SHARE THIS PAGE Request admissions information about Kekst Graduate School We’ll send more details about our programs and the admissions process directly to your inbox. First Name(Required) Last Name(Required) Email(Required) Phone Potential Enrollment Year Please Select One202120222023202420252026 Program of Interest Please Select OneMAPhDDHLNon-DegreeEdD Comments or Questions RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message