Indoor face covering requirements reinstated through June 13. More COVID-19 information. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply UC Riverside University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside Search About About Overview Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Find Information for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges and Schools UCR Extension Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost Veteran Admissions Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Research Research Overview Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Library Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Campus Life Campus Life Overview Events Campus Map Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety Botanic Gardens Housing Dining About Riverside Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply Impact Breadcrumb Impact Economic Impact UCR is a powerful engine of economic growth for Inland Southern California and beyond, having contributed more than $2.7 billion to the U.S. economy during the fiscal year 2015-16 alone. UCR students and visitors contribute more than $287 million to the Inland region. The campus proudly partners with entrepreneurs, corporate leaders, and fellow research enterprises from around the world. The Office of Research and Economic Development (RED) facilitates UCR’s multidisciplinary research enterprise and technology commercialization initiatives. Housed within RED, the Office of Technology Partnerships provides one-stop concierge service for businesses interested in tapping UCR’s top-tier research and market-ready technologies. The Entrepreneurial Proof of Concept and Innovation Center (EPIC) provides training and incubator space for startups from the Inland Southern California region. The Center for Economic Forecasting and Development serves as a hub for collaboration between research, business, and government interests. Related Topics Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Boasting the world’s largest indoor air pollution research facility, the College of Engineering-Center for Environmental Research and Technology (CE-CERT) will partner with the soon to co-locate California Air Resources Board to develop pathbreaking solutions to sustainability issues affecting California and the world. The UCR Career Center provides tools and resources for employers seeking to build their permanent workforce, post job opportunities, hire part-time student workers or volunteers, sponsor internships, and engage in collaborative partnerships. For more than a century, UCR’s Agricultural Experiment Station has developed more than 40 new citrus varieties and helped protect California’s $850+ million-per-year citrus industry. We house the University Citrus Variety Collection, one of the world's most diverse living collections of citrus species. UCR also hosts UC Cooperative Extension research specialists who, along with UCR’s own experts in genomics, entomology, climate, and environmental sciences, partner with growers, state government agencies, and investors to protect California’s $32 billion+ agricultural industry. $226 Million Total 2019-20 Research Funding $2.71 Billion on the U.S. Economy ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Office of Government and Community Relations Community is at the heart of being a Highlander. Office of Government and Community Relations University Extension Continuing education and professional certificate programs. University Extension UCR Research and Economic Development Learn more about campus research and commercialization of technology. RED Economic Impact Report See the latest information on the university’s impact on the community. See Report Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 1156 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webteam@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Return UCR Admissions UCR News Colleges and Schools Graduate Division UCR Jobs UCR Health Giving Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel