Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Safety at Brown Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Sitemap About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Safety at Brown Support for Victims and Survivors of Sensitive Crimes Safety at Brown Support for Victims and Survivors of Sensitive Crimes 401-863-2542 Contact the Department of Public Safety (DPS) for comprehensive support services for victims of crime to include safety planning, advocacy, court accompaniment and case assistance. The Department of Public Safety provides support services for the victims of sensitive crimes to include hate crimes, sexual assault, assaults, robberies, relationship violence, and stalking. The department has a law enforcement advocate who works cooperatively with the DPS Detectives, Office of Student Life, Psychological Services, and Human Resources to ensure individuals are knowledgeable about their options for personal and workplace safety planning. The department also has a specialized Dectective, Jeanne Natale, who engages survivors in effort to faciliate reporting and any necessary communications with other municipal agencies to include the Providence Police Department involving sensitive crimes and case follow-up. An experienced and trained law enforcement advocate (non-police position) is available to provide post-crisis support to persons who report they have been a victim of a crime. Services available include, but are not limited to, an overview of reporting options, safety planning, and court accompaniment. These services are available to staff, faculty, and students. Individuals who wish to become more informed about any of the aforementioned areas, or would like develop an individualized plan for safety, are welcome to also make an appointment. Please note: Those who seek our services are NOT required to file a police report. However, Title IX reporting may apply. For more information about these services, please call Michelle Nuey at 401-863-2542. Department Detectives play an integral role in providing support and case follow-up for crime victims at Brown. DPS Detectives are available to assist a community member with filing a criminal complaint and will provide a full overview of the option prior to moving forward. Please call the DPS Detective Division at (401)863-5292 for Dective Natale or (401)863-5376 for Detective Lieutenant, John Carvalho. Availability Check description for hours of operation Available to all campus No registration required Related Links: DPS Crime Victim Assistance Understanding DPS Response to Sexual Assault Counseling and Psychological Services - Sexual Assault and Interpersonal Violence BWell Health Promotion - Sexual Assault and Dating Violence Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Departments Department of Public Safety Office of Student Life Counseling and Psychological Services Transportation Office Institutional Diversity Health Services Environmental Health and Safety Stay Safe About Safety at Brown Brown Guardian onCall Shuttle Safewalk Personal Safety Alarm (PAL) Brown Ready Health Education Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity