Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Access Course Offerings MSE 301 Materials Science and Engineering Professor/Instructor An introduction to the structure and properties of important current and future materials, including metals, semiconductors, and polymers from an atomic and molecular perspective. Emphasis will be placed on the phase behavior and processing of materials, and on how structures in these materials impact their macroscopic physical, electrical, and thermal properties. Three lectures. MSE 302 Laboratory Techniques in Materials Science and Engineering Professor/InstructorJames Christopher Sturm, Ian Harvey, Nan Yao A hands-on introduction to the use of laboratory techniques for the processing and characterization in materials science. Structure-property relations will be explored through experiments in mechanical, optical, biological and electronic properties. The underlying theories and lab techniques will be explained in weekly lectures. The goal of the course is for students to develop a solid understanding of material properties and the common techniques used in research, as well as to gain valuable practice in oral and written presentation. Prerequisite: 301 or equivalent. Two 90-minute lectures, one laboratory. MAE 324 / MSE 324 Structure and Properties of Materials Professor/InstructorCraig B. Arnold An introduction to the properties of engineering materials that emphasizes the correlation between atomic and microscopic structure and the macroscopic properties of the materials. Topics include structural, mechanical, thermodynamic, and design-related issues important to engineering applications. Two lectures, one preceptorial. CEE 361 / MAE 325 / MSE 331 Matrix Structural Analysis and Introduction to Finite-Element Methods Professor/InstructorSerguei Andreevitch Bagrianski CEE 361 presents the typically decoupled fields of Matrix Structural Analysis (MSA) and Finite Element Methods (FEM) in a cohesive framework. The first half of the semester covers the following MSA topics: derivation of truss, beam, frame, hinge elements; assembly and partitioning of the global stiffness matrix; equivalent nodal loads. The second half of the semester covers the following FEM topics: numerical approximation methods, strong and weak forms of boundary value problems, steady-state heat conduction, linear-elasticity for membranes, plates, shells. MATLAB is used for coding. Prerequisites: CEE205/MAE223, or permission of instructor. GEO 378 / MSE 348 Mineralogy Professor/InstructorThomas S. Duffy A survey of the structure and crystal chemistry of major rock-forming minerals. Topics include: symmetry, crystallography, physical and chemical properties of minerals, mineral thermodynamics, systematic mineralogy, and techniques of modern mineralogy. MAE 344 / MSE 364 Biomechanics and Biomaterials: From Cells to Organisms Professor/InstructorDaniel Joseph Cohen The fundamental concepts required for the design and function of implantable medical devices, including basic applications of materials, solid mechanics and fluid mechanics to bone/implant systems. The course examines the interfaces between cells and the surfaces of synthetic biomaterials that are used in orthopedic and dental applications. Prerequisites: MAT 103 and 104, and PHY 103 and 104. Three one-hour lectures. CBE 415 / CHM 415 / MSE 425 Polymers Professor/InstructorRichard Alan Register Broad introduction to polymer science and technology, including polymer chemistry (major synthetic routes to polymers), polymer physics (solution and melt behavior, solid-state morphology and properties), and polymer engineering (overview of reaction engineering and melt processing methods). Two lectures. Prerequisites: CHM 301, which may be taken concurrently, and MAT 104, or permission of the instructor. ELE 455 / CEE 455 / MAE 455 / MSE 455 Mid-Infrared Technologies for Health and the Environment Professor/Instructor This course is designed to give juniors, seniors, and interested graduate students a comprehensive and interdisciplinary introduction into mid-infrared sensing, its applications, and its technological foundations. Topics include: materials, light sources, lasers and detectors for the mid-infrared; spectroscopy and sensing; sensing systems and sensor networks. It addresses such important issues as global warming, policy making, engineering solutions to global challenges, environmental sensing, breath analysis and health applications, and sensing in homeland security. Two 90-minute lectures. MSE 501 / MAE 561 / CEE 561 Introduction to Materials Professor/InstructorJames S. Smith Emphasizes the connection between microstructural features of materials (e.g., grain size, boundary regions between grains, defects) and their properties, and how processing conditions control structure. Topics include thermodynamics and phase equilibria, microstructure, diffusion, kinetics of phase transitions, nucleation and crystal growth, phase separation, spinodal decomposition, glass formation, and the glass transition. MSE 502 Phase Transformations in Materials Professor/InstructorMikko Petteri Haataja Thermodynamics and kinetics applicable to phase changes and processing in materials. Phase equilibrium, nucleation and growth, phase separation, coarsening, and diffusion in solids. MSE 504 / CHM 560 / PHY 512 / CBE 520 Monte Carlo and Molecular Dynamics Simulation in Statistical Physics & Materials Science Professor/InstructorRoberto Car This course examines methods for simulating matter at the molecular and electronic scale. Molecular dynamics, Monte Carlo and electronic structure methods will be covered with emphasis on hands-on experience in writing and/or exercising simulation codes for atomistic and electronic structure simulation. MSE 505 Characterization of Materials Professor/InstructorNan Yao A multidisciplinary course offering a practical introduction to techniques of imaging and compositional analysis of advanced materials. Focus on principles and applications of various characterization methods. Covered topics include AFM, SEM, TEM, EDX/WDX, EELS, Confocal Microscopy, sample preparation and image processing, etc. Hands-on experience is emphasized. MSE 511 Selected Topics in 2D Materials Professor/InstructorMikko Petteri Haataja This topical survey course focuses on two-dimensional (2D) materials, such as graphene and transition metal dichalcogenides. Through a combination of lectures and journal club-type discussions of published research papers and review articles, the synthesis, physical, mechanical, and structural properties of these materials are explored. Discussion topics include electronic structure and transport properties, deformation behavior and fracture, defects (e.g., grain boundaries and dislocations), structural transformations, and synthesis of 2D materials. MSE 512 / CHM 511 Phase Transformations in Materials: Theory and Simulation Professor/InstructorMikko Petteri Haataja, William M. Jacobs This special topics course focuses on the theory and simulation of phase transformations in materials. Through a combination of traditional lectures, peer-to-peer instruction and several computational projects, the physics of nucleation, growth and coarsening behavior of both solid-like and liquid-like multicomponent materials are explored. Computational approaches covered in the class include Langevin equations, Monte Carlo, diffuse interface (phase field), and the level set methods. CHM 503 / CBE 524 / MSE 514 Introduction to Statistical Mechanics Professor/InstructorSalvatore Torquato, Roberto Car Statistical mechanics provides the basis for understanding the equilibrium and nonequilibrium properties of matter in terms of the microscopic details of molecular interactions and structure. The course aims to provide students with working knowledge of the fundamentals and applications of statistical mechanics. CBE 503 / MSE 521 Advanced Thermodynamics Professor/InstructorSujit Sankar Datta A systematic treatment of chemical thermodynamics from an advanced point of view. It explores the equilibrium properties of chemical systems under a wide range of conditions and applications to problems of a chemical engineering nature, with an emphasis on multicomponent mixtures and reactive systems. CBE 542 / MSE 524 Polymer Viscoelasticity Professor/InstructorRodney D. Priestley An examination of equilibrium and dynamic properties from dilute solutions to the melt state. Explores scaling concepts; Flory-Huggins theory; polymer blends; network structure and elasticity; diffusion and viscoelasticity; influence of chain architecture and temperature; and molecular theory. CEE 530 / MSE 530 / MAE 560 Continuum Mechanics and Thermodynamics Professor/InstructorMaurizio Maria Chiaramonte The course covers the fundamentals of the mechanics and thermodynamics of continua. It reviews concepts of tensor analysis on manifolds and tensor calculus. It then proceeds by developing the fundamental concepts of the kinematics of a deforming continuum. The notion of stress is then introduced and measures of stresses are discussed. Conservation of mass, balance of momentum and moment of momentum, conservation of energy in thermodynamic are discussed. Constitutive theories and the restriction of the second law are presented. The Euler-Lagrange equations are re-connected with balance laws. CBE 541 / MSE 534 Polymer Synthesis Professor/InstructorRichard Alan Register Fundamentals and practice of polymer synthesis, both at the laboratory and industrial scales. Mechanism, kinetics, and range of application of important polymerization methods: condensation, free-radical, anionic, cationic, coordination; polymerization thermodynamics; chemical reactions on polymers; selected industrial processes (e.g., polyesterification, emulsion polymerization, high- and low-pressure routes to polyethylene). MAE 562 / MSE 540 Fracture Mechanics Professor/InstructorWinston Oluwole Soboyejo Fracture involves processes at multiple time and length scales. This course covers the basic topics including energy balance, crack tip fields, toughness, dissipative processes, and subcritical cracking. Fracture processes are then examined as they occur in some modern technologies, such as advanced ceramics, coatings, composites, and integrated circuits. The course also explores fracture at high temperatures and crack nucleation processes. GEO 501 / MSE 541 Physics and Chemistry of Minerals Professor/InstructorThomas S. Duffy Concepts of solid-state physics and inorganic chemistry relevant to the study of minerals and materials. The emphasis is on applications to the study of planetary interiors. Topics include crystal chemistry; crystal structure and phase transitions; equations of state, dynamic, and static compression; elasticity; transport properties; lattice dynamics; lattice defects; and solid-state diffusion and creep. GEO 507 / MSE 547 Topics in Mineralogy and Mineral Physics Professor/InstructorThomas S. Duffy, Jessica Claire Elizabeth Irving Selected topics related to structure, properties, and stability of minerals and melts. Topics include mantle mineralogy, applications of synchrotron radiation to the study of earth materials, physics and chemistry of minerals at high pressure and temperature, and advanced concepts in mineral physics. ELE 543 / MSE 551 Electronic Materials Professor/InstructorSigurd Wagner The science and technology of materials used in electronics and optoelectronics, with varying emphasis. Subjects include the growth of crystals and of thin films, vacuum technology, phase diagrams, defects and atomic diffusion in semiconductors, techniques for analyzing electronic materials, amorphous silicon, and materials for large-area electronics, displays, and solar cells. ELE 554 / MSE 553 Nonlinear Optics Professor/InstructorJason W. Fleischer An introduction to nonlinear optics, second-harmonic generation, parametric amplification and oscillation, electrooptic effects, third-order nonlinearities, phase-conjugate optics, photorefractive materials, and solitons. ELE 547B / MSE 557 Selected Topics in Solid-State Electronics Professor/InstructorStephen Y. Chou One or more advanced topics in solid-state electronics. Content may vary from year to year. Recent topics have included electronic properties of doped semiconductors, physics and technology of nanastructures, and organic materials for optical and electronic device application. Load More More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice