Skip to main content Restrict my search to Equal Opportunity Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Equal Opportunity Services (EOS) About EOS Staff Anti-Discrimination Anti-Discrimination Policy Anti-Discrimination Coordinators Anti-Discrimination Resources Anti-Discrimination FAQs Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Sexual Misconduct Policy Consensual Relationship Policy Title IX Coordinators Title IX Resources SB 212 ADA/Section 504 Policies: Student & Employee Policy for Students Policy for Employees ADA Coordinators ADA Resources ADA FAQs EIR Accessibility EIRA Policy EIRA Coordinators EIRA Resources Blackboard Ally Accessibility Terms Defined Self-Guided Learning Access University Accessibility Options EIRA FAQs EIRA Regulations Workforce Diversity Workforce Diversity Policy Workforce Diversity Resources Workforce Diversity FAQs Contact Us UH Home Equal Opportunity Services Anti-Discrimination FAQs Equal Opportunity Services About EOS Anti-Discrimination Policy Coordinators FAQs Resources Title IX Sexual Misconduct ADA EIR Accessibility Workforce Diversity Contact Us Translation Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Services The University of Houston 4367 Cougar Village Drive Bldg 526 Houston, TX 77204 713-743-8835 eos@uh.edu Anti-Discrimination FAQs I believe that I am being discriminated against on the basis of my membership in a Protected Class. Where can I go for guidance? The University of Houston prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex (including pregnancy), religion, national or ethnic origin, age (40+), disability, veteran status, genetic information, gender identity, gender expression, and sexual orientation (collectively referred to as a "Protected Class"). EOS is responsible for monitoring UH’s compliance with the UHS Anti-Discrimination Policy. Questions or concerns about alleged violations of the UHS Anti-Discrimination Policy should be directed to EOS. Can I make an anonymous complaint or a complaint on someone else’s behalf? Because the grievance procedures are focused on resolution, it is essential that EOS work directly with the person who is reported to have experienced discrimination and/or harassment on the basis of a Protected Class. EOS works directly with faculty, staff, and students who believe they have been discriminated against or harassed based on characteristics such as race, color, sex, religion, national or ethnic origin, age (40+), disability, veteran status, genetic information, and sexual orientation. Who is eligible to file a discrimination complaint? University faculty, staff, and currently enrolled students can file a discrimination and/or harassment complaint. Is everything I tell you kept confidential? Your desire for confidentiality is respected to the extent allowed by state and federal law. In most cases, however, it is necessary to share information with other campus administrators on a need-to-know basis. This helps ensure a successful resolution for all parties involved. Which laws pertain to the UHS Anti-Discrimination Policy? Equal Pay Act of 1963 Title VI & VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972 Section 503 & 504 of Rehabilitation Act of 1973 Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974 Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the ADA Amendments Act of 2008 Civil Rights Act of 1991 Executive Order 11246 Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 Discriminatory practices under these laws also include the following. Harassment on the basis of a Protected Class; Retaliation against an individual for filing a charge of discrimination, participating in an investigation, or opposing discriminatory practices; Employment decisions based on stereotypes or assumptions about the abilities, traits, or performance of individuals of a Protected Class; and Denying employment opportunities to a person because of marriage to, or association with, an individual of a Protected Class. Title VII prohibits discrimination because of participation in schools or places of worship associated with a particular racial, ethnic, or religious group. What do the EEO laws prohibit? EEO laws prohibit employment decisions based on any protected basis, including, but not limited to: hiring and firing; compensation, assignment, or classification of employees; transfer, promotion, layoff, or recall; job advertisements; recruitment; testing; use of company facilities; training and apprenticeship programs; fringe benefits; pay, retirement plans, and disability leave; retaliation for participation in a protected EEO activity; or any other term or condition of employment. Where can I find information about academic accommodations for religious holy days? University of Houston (See "Religious Holy Days" and "Excused Absence Policy") University of Houston-Clear Lake (See "Missed Examinations and Assignments") University of Houston-Victoria (See "Absences due to Religious Holy Days") University of Houston-Downtown Undergraduate Catalog (See "Religious Holy Days") Graduate Catalog (See "Religious Holy Days") Student Handbook (See "Student Absences on Religious Holy Days") How can I make a report or file a complaint? To make a report or to make an appointment to discuss the process for filing a formal complaint for an alleged violation of the UHS Anti-Discrimination Policy, please contact EOS. Make a Report Request an Accommodation Request a Training Get Involved Quick Exit Equal Opportunity Services 4367 Cougar Village Drive Bldg 526 Houston, TX 77204 713.743.8835 eos@uh.edu A-Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Maps Careers at UH Directory Emergency Information Human Resources Libraries Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Title IX - Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies