Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Rabbinical School Admissions Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Apply Preparing for Rabbinical School Candidate Profile Contact Admissions Student Life Meet Rabbinical School Alumni Tuition & Fees Financial Aid & Fellowships Become a Rabbi at JTS The Rabbinical School education is rooted in spirituality and scholarship, preparing students to become transformative leaders in diverse settings across North America and throughout the world. Our programs combine serious learning with superior professional training, supported by a Jewish community deeply committed to tefillah, study, and practice. Students participate in immersive learning in Israel, spiritual mentorship, fieldwork, and a master’s level curriculum as they prepare for a life of sacred service. The rich academic resources of JTS allow our students to design highly individualized programs, combining their rabbinic ordination with a master’s degree in a specific area of Jewish Studies or Jewish education, as well the option for a certificate in Pastoral Care. The Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts, an incubator for inventive approaches to prayer, is a unique resource for those seeking to deepen their own prayer experience and to revitalize prayer in our communities. Application Process and Deadlines Applicants to The Rabbinical School embark on a journey as they work with admissions staff, current students, and faculty to determine if JTS is the right academic and spiritual community for them. Learn about the process, from preliminary discussions to applications and interviews. Candidate Profile Preparing for The Rabbinical School Application Academics Find more information about Hebrew language, text, and Talmud study; the year in Israel; master’s degree study; and ordination. Beit Midrash Iyun Visit JTS Prospective students are encouraged to attend an Open House or come to campus at any time. Admissions staff will help organize class visits, participation in daily minyan, and one-on-one meetings with students and faculty. Register for a Visit Meet the Admissions Team Professional Training Rabbinical students pursue a yearlong field internship—guided by a rabbinic mentor—in one of five areas of their choosing and complete a unit of Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE). Learn about CPE, internship placements, fellowships, opportunities for mentorship, and more. Center for Pastoral Education Fellowships Mentoring Tuition, Financial Aid, and Fellowships The Rabbinical School is committed to providing comprehensive financial assistance packages to qualified students. Find information on applying for financial aid, merit-based fellowships, and more. Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Events Right now there are no event listings for this location or category. Our calendar is updated regularly. Please check back. SHARE THIS PAGE Request Information from Rabbinical School Admissions We’ll send more details about our programs and the admissions process directly to your inbox. First Name(Required) Last Name(Required) Email(Required) Phone Potential Enrollment Year Please Select One202120222023202420252026 Comments or Questions RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message