Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Meira Levinson Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Faculty & Research Meira Levinson Juliana W. and William Foss Thompson Professor of Education and Society Degree: Ph.D., University of Oxford, (1997) Email: [javascript protected email address] Phone: 617.496.1562 Vitae/CV: Meira Levinson.pdf Office: Gutman 413 Office Hours: https://tinyurl.com/levinsonofficehours Office Hours Contact: Online Sign-up Faculty Assistant: Cherise Kenner Profile Meira Levinson is a normative political philosopher who works at the intersection of civic education, youth empowerment, racial justice, and educational ethics. In doing so, she draws upon scholarship from multiple disciplines as well as her eight years of experience teaching in the Atlanta and Boston Public Schools. She is currently working to start a global field of educational ethics, modeled in some ways after bioethics, that is philosophically rigorous, disciplinarily and experientially inclusive, and both relevant to and informed by educational policy and practice. Levinson’s work in this area has been supported by a Guggenheim Fellowship, Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, Harvard’s Edmond J. Safra Center of Ethics, and the Spencer Foundation. Since the onslaught of the global novel coronavirus pandemic, Levinson has been focused on expanding educational ethics to address the multitude of ethical challenges posed by school closures, remote schooling, and uncertain reopenings. In collaboration with colleagues, she has co-authored The Path to Zero and Schools: Achieving Pandemic-Resilient Teaching and Learning Spaces policy guidance, a New England Journal of Medicine article on Reopening Primary Schools in a Pandemic, and two additional white papers. She has also been leading global teacher discussion groups on the ethical challenges they face. Levinson’s most recent books include Democratic Discord in Schools: Cases and Commentaries in Educational Ethics (2019, with Jacob Fay), Dilemmas of Educational Ethics: Cases and Commentaries (2016, with Jacob Fay), Making Civics Count (2012, with David Campbell and Frederick Hess), and No Citizen Left Behind (2012). She also shares educational ethics resources on JusticeinSchools.org, rich video materials to support higher education pedagogy at Instructional Moves, and resources for youth activists and teacher allies at YouthinFront.org. Each of these projects, like her previous research, reflects Levinson's commitment to achieving productive cross-fertilization — without loss of rigor — among scholarship, policy, and practice. She earned a B.A. in philosophy from Yale and a D.Phil. in politics from Nuffield College, Oxford University. Areas of Expertise Civic EducationCurriculum DevelopmentDiversityMiddle SchoolsMulticultural EducationPhilosophy of EducationPolitical TheoryUrban Schooling Awards Guggenheim Fellowship,(2014) North American Society for Social Philosophy Book Award,(2014) American Educational Studies Association Critics Choice Award for No Citizen Left Behind,(2013) Michael Harrington Book Award, New Political Science Caucus, American Political Science Association,(2013) NCSS 2013 Exemplary Research in Social Studies Education Award, National Council for the Social Studies,(2013) Bunting Fellow, Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study,(2003) Young Scholar Award, Program in Ethics and Public Life, Cornell University,(2003) Post-Doctoral Fellowship, National Academy of Education/Spencer Foundation,(2002) Sponsored Projects Annual International Conference in Philosophy of Education (2014-2018) Spencer Foundation We propose to organize and run three by-invitation-only conferences on philosophical issues in contemporary education. These conferences will be augmented by graduate student workshops and production of an edited book. Our goal is to consolidate and enlarge the international community of scholars who are dedicated to developing philosophy of education as a sub-discipline of philosophy. In particular, we are trying to foster an approach to doing philosophy of education that is both philosophically rigorous and educationally deep. Our first conference, on Â“Hybridized Education and the Intersection of Public and Private,Â” responds to the fact that charter schools, virtual schools, corporate and big philanthropic interventions in education, and individual content creators are all blurring the boundaries between public and private education. Questions to be considered include: What should Â“publicÂ” education stand for in the early twenty-first century, if anything, and why? How do these new developments reflect, refine, expand, or overturn the democratic purposes and character of education? Our second conference, on Â“Changing Access to Higher EducationÂ” will address the national and global transformation in who has access to higher education, under what circumstances, and to what ends. We will consider: To what extent might inequality of opportunity be exacerbated as only the most privileged are able to access residential and other goods of university membership? What is the epistemic standing of the Â“marketplace of ideasÂ” if a small number of superstar professors end up monopolizing the market? How should we understand knowledge creation and distribution in a system that simultaneously fosters decentralization and potential commercial hegemony? Finally, our third conference on Â“Teacher Expertise and the Nature of Professional JudgmentÂ” will consider the creation, evaluation, and/or dissemination of expert teachersÂ—questions which lie at the heart of the contemporary global education reform movement. What does it mean to be expert in a field or a practice? How does Â“judgmentÂ” fit into the acquisition and enactment of such expertise, in particular educational expertise? How can concepts of phronesis, praxis, and/or virtue epistemology shed light on these questions? Publications Levinson, Meira and Fay, Jacob (Eds). (2019) Democratic Discord in Schools: Cases and Commentaries in Educational Ethics. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Education Press.,(2019) https://www.justiceinschools.org/,(2019) Levinson, M., and Fay, J. (2016) Dilemmas of Educational Ethics: Cases and Commentaries. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Education Press.,(2016) Campbell, D., M. Levinson, and F. Hess (Eds.). Making Civics Count. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Education Press.,(2012) “Dilemmas of Deliberative Civic Education” (2002). Philosophy of Education Yearbook: 262-70.,(2012) Levinson, M. (2012). No Citizen Left Behind. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.,(2012) Levinson, M. (2011). Why Education is Not ‘The Civil Rights Issue of Our Time.’ Guest blogger on Rick Hess Straight Up. January 20, 2011.,(2011) Levinson, M. (2011) Benefits of Civic Education: Increased Equality and Narrowed Civic Empowerment Gap. Section of national report on Keeping Our Republic: Restoring the Civic Mission of Schools, to be released by the Campaign for the Civic Mission of Schools.,(2011) Levinson, M. (2011). Is Teaching About Martin Luther King, Jr., Bad for Kids? Guest blogger on Rick Hess Straight Up. January 18, 2011.,(2011) Levinson, M. (2011). What Can Schools Do To Promote Civil Dialogue? Guest blogger on Rick Hess Straight Up. January 19, 2011. Reprinted in Citizenship Matters. National Center for Learning and Citizenship, Education Commission of the States. March-April 2011.,(2011) Levinson, M. (2011) Racial Politics and Double Consciousness: Education for Liberation in an Inescapably Diverse Polity. Canadian Issues/Thèmes Canadiens. Diversity and Education for Liberation: Realities, Possibilities, and Problems. Spring 2011, 80-82.,(2011) Levinson, M. (2011). Democracy, Accountability, and Education. Theory and Research in Education 9(2): 125-144.,(2011) Reich, J., M. Levinson, and W. Johnson (2011). Using Online Social Networks to Foster Preservice Teachers’ Membership in a Networked Community of Praxis. Contemporary Issues in Technology and Teacher Education (CITE): forthcoming.,(2011) Levinson, M. (2010). The Civic Empowerment Gap: Defining the Problem and Locating Solutions. In L.R. Sherrod, J. Torney-Purta, and C.A. Flanagan (Eds.) Handbook of Research on Civic Engagement in Youth (pp. 331-361). Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.,(2010) Levinson, M. (2010). An Embarrassing Second Amendment: A Proud Daughter Belatedly (1) Recognizes and (2) Celebrates Her Father’s Influence on Her Life and Work. Law and Courts 20(3), 16-17.,(2010) Levinson, M. (2009). Mapping Multicultural Education. In H. Siegel (Ed.), Oxford Handbook of Philosophy of Education (pp. 420-442). New York: Oxford University Press.,(2009) Levinson, M. (2009). Taking Action: What We Can Do to Address the Civic Achievement Gap. Social Studies Review 48(1), 33-36.,(2009) Levinson, M. (2009). 'Let Us Now Praise...?' Rethinking Heroes and Role Models in an Egalitarian Age. In Y. Raley & G. Preyer (Eds.), Philosophy of Education in the Era of Globalization (pp. 129-161). New York: Routledge.,(2009) “Combating the Civic Achievement Gap.” (2008). ASCD Express.,(2008) “Finding Role Models in the Community” (2008). In Mica Pollock, ed. Everyday Antiracism: Concrete Ways to Successfully Navigate the Relevance of Race in School. New York: The New Press: 120-4.,(2008) “Common Schools and Multicultural Education” (2007). Journal of Philosophy of Education 41(4): 625-42.Also in Mark Halstead and Graham Haydon, eds. (2008). The Common School and the Comprehensive Ideal. Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell: 124-40.,(2007) Democracy at Risk: How Political Choices Undermine Citizen Participation, and What We Can Do About It (2005). Co-authored with Stephen Macedo (primary author) and others. Washington, D.C.: Brookings Institution Press.,(2005) “Solving the Civic Achievement Gap in De Facto Segregated Schools” (2005). Philosophy and Public Policy Quarterly 25 (1/2): 2-10.,(2005) “The Civic Achievement Gap” (2004). Threshold 2 (3): 12-15.,(2004) “Is Autonomy Imposing Education Too Demanding? A Response to Dr. De Ruyter” (2004). Studies in Philosophy and Education 23: 223-33.,(2004) “‘Getting Religion:’ Religion, Community, and Diversity in Public and Private Schools” (2003). Co-authored with Sanford Levinson. In Alan Wolfe, ed. School Choice: The Moral Debate. Princeton: Princeton University Press: 104-25. Also in Sanford Levinson. Wrestling with Diversity. Durham, NC: Duke University Press: 90-123.,(2003) “The Language of Race” (2003). Theory and Research in Education 1(3): 267-81. (Book review of Lawrence Blum, I’m Not a Racist, But…),(2003) “Challenging Deliberation” (2003). Theory and Research in Education 1(1): 23-49.,(2003) “Minority Participation and Civic Education in Deliberative Democracies” (2002). In Daniel A. Bell and Avner de-Shalit, eds. Forms of Justice: Critical Perspectives on David Miller's Political Philosophy. Boulder: Rowman and Littlefield: 159-82.,(2002) “Liberalism, Pluralism, and Political Education: Paradox or Paradigm?” (1999). Oxford Review of Education 25: 39-58.,(1999) The Demands of Liberal Education (1999). Oxford: Oxford University Press.,(1999) “Liberalism versus Democracy? Schooling Private Citizens in the Public Square” (1997). British Journal of Political Science 27: 333-360.,(1997) “Multicultural Education” (forthcoming). In Harvey Siegel, ed. Oxford Handbook of Philosophy of Education. Oxford: Oxford University Press. “Taking Action: What We Can Do to Address the Civic Achievement Gap” (forthcoming). Social Studies Review. Journal of the California Council for the Social Studies. Associations Advisory Board, Generation Citizen,(2010-present) Advisory Board, Schools, Civics and Citizenship: What Teachers Think and Do, AEI,(2010-present) Founding Member, National Action Civics Collaborative,(2010-present) Advisory Board, We the People: The Citizen and the Constitution and We the People: Project Citizen,(2009-present) Research Advisory Board, CIRCLE and the Tisch College of Citizenship and Public Service, Tufts University,(2009-present) Grant reviewer, Spencer Foundation,(2007-present) Editorial Board, Theory and Research in Education,(2006-present) Steering Committee Member, Campaign for the Civic Mission of Schools,(2003-present) Reviewer for peer-reviewed journals and publishers including Theory and Research in Education, Citizenship Studies, Studies in Philosophy and Education, Journal of Politics, Oxford University Press, Chicago University Press, Routledge, Rowman and Littlefield,(2000-present) Board of Trustees, Discovering Justice,(2010-2013) Civic Schools Design Team, Civic Ed Project,(2011-2011) Annual Conference Program Committee, Philosophy of Education Society,(2010-2011) Public Face of PES Committee, Philosophy of Education Society,(2008-2009) Young Faculty Leadership Forum,(2002-2006) Choices in Little Rock Advisory Group, Facing History and Ourselves,(2003-2005) Civics in Action Planning Committee, Boston Public Schools,(2003-2005) American Political Science Association’s Standing Committee on Civic Education and Engagement,(2002-2005) Inaugural Member, American Political Science Association’s Standing Committee on Civic Education and Engagement,(2002-2005) Education Committee, Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities,(2000-2004) News Stories A Critical Conversation New Named Chairs Announced Education Now: Keeping Our Schools Healthy Still Wrestling with Whether or Not to Send Our Kids Back to School? Exploring Equity: Citizenship and Nationality Harvard EdCast: Schools, Reopening, and the Cycle of Mistrust Schools and Pandemic Resilience The Impact of the Election Conversations Across Differences Prioritizing the Reopening of Schools Professional Education Programs Instructional Moves: Making Classroom Discussions More Inclusive and Effective In this section Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Meira Levinson Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice