Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo UW Civil & Environmental Engineering Wordmark Logo Alumni Industry MyCEE UW Links Menu Search Main menu About About What is CEE? Why CEE? Quick Facts Message from the Chair Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion ABET Accreditation Visiting CEE Contact Us Employment Research Research Research Areas Research facilities Research labs and groups Centers Global Research COVID-19 Research Graduate student research News & Events News & Events News Our Stories Events CEE Endowed Lectures The Bridge CEE on Video In the Media People People Faculty Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Burges Professors Staff Student Profiles Future Students Future Students Undergraduates Graduates Online Studies Professional & Certificate Programs K-12 Programs Current Students Current Students Undergraduates Master's Ph.D. Curriculum & Course Planning Resources Careers and Internships Student Clubs Computing Study Abroad Preparing to Graduate 2022 online CEE summer courses Student Advisory Boards Additional Links Additional Links Alumni Industry MyCEE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE Alumni Industry MyCEE A mountain of learning UW students visit one of Mount Baker's most prominent glaciers to learn how to gather highly precise data that can be used to track glacier change. Read more Up Next A RAPID transformation A RAPID transformation CEE's RAPID facility continues to advance data gathering protocols and procedures in the aftermath of natural disasters, thanks to a $6 million NSF renewal grant. Read more Up Next A mountain of learning OUR VALUES Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Learn how the CEE department is taking concrete actions toward a diverse, equitable and inclusive environment. Learn more Alumni spotlight MSCE graduate aligns career with life purpose When recent graduate Judy Khalamwa wanted to both further her career and make her work more meaningful, she decided to start with a solid foundation — and enrolled in UW CEE’s online Master of Science in Construction Engineering program. Learn more Online courses 2022 online CEE summer courses Join us this summer! Three upcoming online courses are ideal for accommodating a variety of summer obligations and schedules, such as a job or internship. Learn more Giving A student-focused send-off In honor of Professor Joe Mahoney's upcoming retirement, a newly established scholarship fund will support underrepresented students who are the first in their family to attend college. Read more Department news Two College of Engineering teaching awards In recognition of their excellence as instructors, two members of the CEE community — Professor Steve Muench and his Ph.D. student Milad Ashtiani — were honored with College of Engineering teaching awards. Read Article Five faculty receive 2022 FACET teaching awards Students have had their say. They’ve nominated five CEE faculty members to receive 2022 Faculty Appreciation for Career Education & Training (FACET) Awards. Read Article Professor Cynthia Chen named interim ISE chair "Cynthia’s dedication to leadership and service makes her exceptionally qualified to serve as interim chair of ISE." Read Article 2022 Pulitzer Prize-winning collaboration The team at the Miami Herald has received the 2022 Pulitzer Prize in Breaking News Reporting. The award honors the media team’s investigation into the partial collapse of Champlain Towers South, for which CEE Professor Dawn Lehman was a key technical contributor. Read Article More News Jun 2 Thu CEE Spring Mixer 2022 (open to only CEE community) 4:00 pm - 6:00 pm Columns and Sylvan Theater (LNDMK-4) Jun 4 Sat Civil & Environmental Engineering Graduation Celebration 5:30 pm - 7:00 pm Edmundson Pavilion (EDP) Jun 14 Tue CEE Faculty Meeting 12:30 pm - 1:30 pm More Hall (MOR) - More Hall, Room 221 Jun 21 Tue Instruction Begins for Summer Quarter 2022 - Full and A-term 12:00 am - 12:00 am Full Calendar UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us MyCEE Sitemap Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation © 2022 UW Civil & Environmental Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA