Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Canvas Menu Getting Started Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status Training Request Forms Canvas Training Request Form Demo Course Request Form Feature Request Form Organization Request Form Outside User Request Form Promotional Request Form Image Examples SI Leader Course Request Form Template Request Form Syllabi Resources News Canvas Login Baylor>Canvas>News>Canvas News News: Canvas News Apr 26 2022 ProQuest-Canvas Integration Now Available Instructors are now able to search for ProQuest documents from within Canvas, select them, and embed them directly for viewing within Canvas courses and assignments. Apr 10 2022 Canvas Features and Updates in April Instructure is making changes to Canvas on April 16, 2022. Although minor, there are a few important updates to note for teachers and students. Apr 6 2022 Avatars in Zoom Avatars enable you to replace your appearance with a 3D virtual avatar that mirrors your head movements and facial expressions. Mar 31 2022 Webex and BigBlueButton Access Ending Soon Access to Webex and BigBlueButton within Canvas will end at the end of the spring term. Microsoft Teams and Zoom will serve as Baylor's videoconferencing solutions moving forward. Mar 1 2022 New Quizzes Timeline Updates Instructure has extended the migration deadline for using Classic Quizzes in Canvas until June 30, 2024. Feb 25 2022 Bongo Learn 22.2 Updates The February 2022 release of Bongo Learn includes user interface updates for Individual and Group Assignments making it easier for students to record video feedback assignments. Feb 1 2022 Zoom Security Tips & Tricks Zoom provides numerous security options available to meeting hosts to help secure the Zoom environment. Jan 31 2022 Kaltura KMS Go Download KMS Go - take your videos with you! Kaltura has expanded support for offline viewing in the KMS Go app for iOS and Android. Jan 24 2022 Turnitin Feedback Studio Template Exclusion Turnitin is thrilled to announce that template exclusion within Turnitin Feedback Studio is now available for turnitin.com and Canvas users! Jan 6 2022 Zoom Learning Center The Zoom Learning Center is a free platform that educates and empowers Zoom users to confidently use Zoom through a series of short, on-demand online courses and videos. Jan 3 2022 Canvas Updates in January Instructure is making several minor changes to Canvas on January 15 before the start of the spring semester. Although minor, there are several important updates to note for teachers and students. Dec 16 2021 Presidential Perspective: Baylor Achieves R1 Status I am overjoyed to share with you some wonderful news we learned this morning. We have received notification from the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education that Baylor University has achieved Research 1 status, joining the nation’s top research institutions as a doctoral university with very high research activity and as a preeminent Christian research university. Dec 6 2021 Teams Meetings and Classes Coming to Canvas Two powerful Teams functions - Meetings and Classes - will be integrated into Canvas in December, providing new ways to connect with course participants. Dec 1 2021 Changes Coming to Canvas Quizzes A change to the Quizzes function in Canvas is scheduled to take place by July 2022, with "New Quizzes" taking its place for all instructors by this summer. Nov 19 2021 Canvas Support, Guides, and Training The Support menu on the Canvas website has been enhanced to provide easy access to the most critical support and training resources for Canvas and related products. Nov 11 2021 Baylor ITS Launches New Online Experience Baylor Information Technology Services launched a new website today, built on the university's new Drupal framework. The new online experience, available at its.web.baylor.edu, highlights the people and collaborative partnerships that drive technologies to empower the university in its mission. Nov 5 2021 System Status A new System Status hub provides real-time updates about errors, outages, or upcoming maintenance for most academic and administrative systems at Baylor. Oct 17 2021 Immersive Reader Available in Assignments Microsoft Immersive Reader is now available on Canvas assignment pages. Oct 1 2021 Zoom Security Update Policy Beginning November 1, 2021, users will be required to update their Zoom software to ensure it is no more than nine months behind the current version, at any given time. Sep 17 2021 Online Attendance in New Analytics A new Online Attendance dashboard has been added to courses that have New Analytics enabled. Aug 10 2021 Mentimeter App for Zoom The Mentimeter app for Zoom is designed to make your online meetings, conferences, training sessions, and lessons even more interactive and engaging. Aug 2 2021 New Quizzes Coming to Canvas for Fall 2021 The New Quizzes engine will be available this fall, and will be the only option available by July 2022 Jul 27 2021 Zoom Automatic Live Transcription A new feature is now available in Baylor's Zoom account: automatic live transcription! Jul 26 2021 Canvas Discussion Redesign On August 2, Instructure will release the redesigned Canvas Discussions which boasts an improved user interface and has integrated many years of feedback from faculty. Jul 19 2021 Webex New Look and Training Webex recently unveiled their new brand logos. You'll see the new logo on downloads from baylor.webex.com and also see the new logo on the Webex meeting site web page. The new logos are also on the app updates of the Webex Meetings mobile apps. Are you looking for more News? All NewsArchives News General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Getting Started Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status Training Request Forms Canvas Training Request Form Demo Course Request Form Feature Request Form Organization Request Form Outside User Request Form Promotional Request Form Image Examples SI Leader Course Request Form Template Request Form Syllabi Resources News Canvas Login