Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America Home About Events News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Site Navigation Home About History Staff Advisors Postdoctoral, Faculty, and Graduate Fellows Visiting Faculty Practitioner Fellows Message from the Director Location & Contact Information Annual Reports CSREA Q&A with Tricia Rose Events Past Events Co-sponsorship Requests Featured Events Around Campus Signature Series Underlying Conditions The Third Rail Series Writing for a Broken World What I Am Thinking About Now "First Works" Series Race at the Center of the Humanities New Book Talks STEM Conversation Series Dr. Jean Shim Yun Lecture Series Graduate Professionalization Workshop Series Critical Conversations Summer Reading Series News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Visiting Faculty Fellows Application deadline: Thursday, March 31st, 2022, for fall 2022. CSREA invites tenured and other long term faculty who have been approved by their home institutions to be on a funded scholarly leave and whose scholarship focuses on race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity in the United States and work that connects the U.S. to related transnational contexts, to apply to be a Visiting Faculty Fellow for the fall 2022 academic term. Fellows will contribute to the intellectual life of CSREA through engaged participation in scholarly and social activities at the Center. This program is an in-person fall semester fellowship. The terms of the program may be subject to change. THE FELLOWSHIP Fellows will have access to Brown University resources and are invited to contribute to the academic community. There will be opportunities to present work-in-progress in a public lecture or performance. Projects should focus at least in part on issues of race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity in the U.S. and work that connects the U.S. to related transnational contexts. Fellows are expected to cover their own expenses (including health benefits) for the duration of their appointment. Fellowship Details: Awardees will receive a $4,500 stipend for a semester-long fellowship and have access to up to $1,000 each in research funds Attendance and participation at the in-person CSREA Research Fellows Seminar (number of sessions to be determined) is required Fellows are expected to participate in social community-building activities sponsored by the Center (e.g. Wind Down Wednesdays, lectures, events, etc.) ELIGIBILITY Applicants must: Be a member of the regular faculty at their home institution Be on a funded scholarly leave/sabbatical at their home institution Previous CSREA Visiting Faculty Fellows are not eligible APPLICATION PROCESS Applicants must complete this application form and submit all requested supplementary documents via Interfolio to be fully considered. Submissions via email will not be accepted. Applicants must submit the following: A cover letter discussing what the applicant hopes to achieve during the fellowship period and why being affiliated with CSREA and Brown University would be especially helpful in accomplishing the goals A current curriculum vitae (CV) A sample of scholarly or creative work (maximum 35 pages) A one-page research project abstract (500-800 words) A more detailed research proposal (1,200-2,000 words, excluding the bibliography): The proposal should outline the research that the applicant will pursue during the term of the fellowship One letter of recommendation from a senior colleague from within or outside the applicants home institution One approval/support letter from Department Chair endorsing the application DEADLINE Applications for the fall 2022 academic term are due on Thursday, March 31st, 2022 by 5:00 p.m. EST. Awardees will be notified in May 2022. The first convening of the selected cohort of fellows will be in September 2022. Questions? Please contact CSREA Program Coordinator, Maggie Murphy. APPLICATION FORM Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Opportunities For Graduate Students Stay Connected Subscribe to our newsletter Visit Our YouTube Channel The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) Brown University Box 2032 96 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5775 Fax: 401-863-5784 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top