Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Racial Justice Home About Racial Justice The following resources – many from a faith perspective – can help in better understanding racial injustice and the importance of anti-Black racism work in the United States and, in particular, at Boston College. Our Jesuit, Catholic identity calls us to be ever more attentive, reflective and loving in a world so scathed by racism. By no means exhaustive, the list recognizes that each of us enters this conversation at different points. We hope something you find here may help in your work to build a community that upholds the dignity of the person and affirms that Black Lives Matter. Preaching from Sr. Thea's Kitchen Servant of God, Sr. Thea Bowman, FSPA (1937–1990) championed a universal invitation to preaching as members of the Body of Christ. Bowman was known for integrating her Catholic tradition with Black spirituality. Campus Ministry is introducing Preaching from Sr. Thea’s Kitchen to center and amplify Black voices and experiences. This series will offer reflections from the BC Community about the intersection of scripture and Ignatian spirituality with racial justice. As Bowman’s ministry of joy proclaimed, Black is beautiful! read more about sr. bowman University Resources Multifaith Communities With all major faiths represented at BC, we offer many opportunities for students to learn more about their own faith traditions, to celebrate and worship together, and to join in fellowship with others, both on campus and at area services. Learn More African & African Diaspora Studies Introduces histories, cultures, and experiences of African descended peoples to students; supports academic research; gives students opportunities to examine African legacies; links local Black communities with BC; and communicates the significance of people of African descent. Learn More Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center Supports the undergraduate community with a particular focus on AHANA, multicultural, multiracial, and OTE students. Learn More Compass Mentoring Incoming first-year AHANA students can connect with upperclass mentors, develop friendships, and gain a strong sense of community as they navigate their first semester of college through the Compass Mentoring Program. Learn More Office for Institutional Diversity Supports the University's mission by promoting a culture that embraces diversity and inclusion for all members of the community. Learn More Employee Affinity Groups Affinity Groups bring together individuals with common interests to facilitate efforts that promote education and awareness while helping advance and sustain a campus culture and climate that welcomes diversity and inclusiveness. Learn More Featured Resources Catholic Compilations Articles Books Films Talks Additional Resources In Response to the Shooting in Buffalo In response to the shooting in Buffalo, New York on Saturday, May 14, 2022, the Ignatian Solidarity Network has compiled a list of resrouces on racism, gun violence, and Catholic teaching on peace and justice. #BlackCatholic Syllabus A collection of resources curated by Dr. Tia Noelle Pratt. This syllabus prioritizes the work of Blacks in order to center the voice of Black Catholics in creation of their own narrative. The document is for those who want to learn and think critically about issues such as: anti-Black systemic racism; white supremacy; racial justice; anti-racism; #BlackLivesMatter; the impact these issues have on the Church, and moving from individual level to organizational/institutional level thinking about these issues. Countering Racism Theological resources for countering white supremacy, anti-blackness and racial injustice from the Catholic Theological Ethics in the World Church network. Required reading: A Black Catholic Syllabus U.S. Catholic offers a list of resources – many from prominent Black Catholic theologians, historians, and writers, along with others who study, write, and teach about the legacy of racism. The document contains resources introducing racial justice; the intersection of racial justice and faith; articles and interviews; church documents; suggested race scholars to follow; books for parents, and possible next steps. Lead Me, Guide Me Sr. Thea Bowman was instrumental in the publication of 1987's Lead Me, Guide Me: The African American Catholic Hymnal. This was the first hymnal of its kind and served to inculturate and animate the faith of Black Catholics. In the hymnal, Sr. Thea described the gifts of African American sacred song as holistic, participatory, spirit-filled, and life-giving. In honor of November's Black Catholic History month and the gift of African American sacred song, Campus Ministry recorded several songs from the hymnal. Click through the playlist starting with Lift Every Voice, below: 6 Guidelines I’ve Learned for Talking About Race Sullivan McCormick, S.J., '15, considers suggestions he's embraced "as a white male who has failed, sinned, and continues to grow in conversations about race." The Assumptions of White Privilege and What We Can Do About It Fr. Bryan Massingale is a theology professor at Fordham University. He is the author of Racial Justice and the Catholic Church. Breath & Fire The Spirit moves us toward racial justice, writes theology professor M. Shawn Copeland. How can Catholics help lead the fight against racism? Olga Segura is the author of the forthcoming book Birth of a Movement: Black Lives Matter and the Catholic Church. ‘How long, O Lord?’ Psalm 13 is the Cry of Black Americans Mario Powell, S.J., '03, writes in America about the sin of racism and the proximity required for change to be enacted. Open Letter to a Friend Waking Up to Racism Ángel Flores Fontánez, S.J., discusses the way ahead for those just engaging in antiracism work. Racial Justice and Interfaith Cooperation Racial equity is an interfaith movement, writes Eboo Patel, founder of the Interfaith Youth Core. Revisiting Racism Dr. M. Shawn Copeland looks at Black theology and its history of oppression within Christianity. View More View Less Further Reading The lists below include dozens of books – many from BIPOC authors and creatives – that look at multiple themes connecting to anti-racism work. An Antiracist Reading List, Ibram X. Kendi The Books Can Help You Explain Racism and Protests to Your Kids, Jessica Grose This List Of Books, Films And Podcasts About Racism Is A Start, Not A Panacea, Isabella Rosario Racial Justice Bookshelf Black Faith Matters This short film shares the joy, pain and struggles that are faced in the Black Catholic community in the Treme area of New Orleans. Though the experience in New Orleans is unique, filmmakers note, it is relatable to Black Catholics – specifically African American Catholics – throughout America. Learn more about the documentary. Bishop George V. Murry IFTJ Keynote The late Bishop George V. Murry, S.J., was a former chair of the US Catholic Bishops’ Committee Against Racism. He gave a keynote at the 2018 Ignatian Family Teach-In for Justice. The Disease of Racism Sr. Patricia Chappell, SNDden, is a member of the Sisters of Notre Dame de Namur and former executive director of Pax Christi USA. She gave a keynote on racial justice at the 2017 Ignatian Family Teach-In for Justice. How the Church Can Combat Racism and White Privilege Fr. Bryan Massingale, author of “Racial Justice and the Catholic Church” and Professor of Theology at Fordham University, joins America's National Correspondent Michael O'Loughlin for a conversation on racism, white privilege and what the church can do to address these issues moving forward. The Magis and Justice Fr. Massingale speaks on “The Magis and Justice” at the 2017 Ignatian Family Teach-In for Justice. The Other America The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. addresses race, poverty and economic justice in the United States during a 1967 speech at Stanford University. 21-Day Racial Equity Challenge For 21 days, we challenge you to enter into the complex work of understanding the realities of racial injustice and anti-Blackness in the U.S. The Ignatian Racial Equity Challenge is designed for all participants, regardless of race, ethnicity, prior anti-racism work, age or background and will include opportunities to learn, pray, and act on different themes of racial equity. Acknowledging Systemic Racism and Unpacking Whiteness Resources from NETWORK, a Catholic leader in the global movement for justice and peace. BC Libraries University librarians have put together learning resources and ways you can be engaged in remote anti-racism work given the realities of COVID-19. Racial Justice Resources Resources from the Ignatian Spirituality Network, which educates and forms advocates for social justice animated by the spirituality of St. Ignatius Loyola and the witness of the Jesuit martyrs of El Salvador and their companions. Recommit to Racial Justice NETWORK offers a guide of spiritual content to examine white privilege and systemic racism that can be valuable for all people, but particularly white individuals looking to deepen their understanding of how race functions in society. Know Justice, Know Peace "Know Justice, Know Peace: A Jesuit Antiracism Retreat" is a series of 12 talks published in video, podcast, and text from The Jesuit Post to continue a process of conversion toward antiracism. An Examen for a Complex Time Campus Ministry's Fall 2020 Examen video, based on the technique of prayerful reflection and discernment of St. Ignatius's Spiritual Exercises, looks back at the complexities of the year and forward with hope for the future. “Racism is a social and spiritual disease that kills people.” Cardinal Seán O’Malley, OFM, Cap., Archbishop of Boston CARDINAL SEÁN’S LETTER Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry Boston College McElroy 233 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College