Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content Close × Close × Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Faculty Office of the Provost Resources Resources Undergraduate Admissions Office of Graduate Affairs Academic Calendar Mission and Ministry Alumni and Friends Quick Links Quick Links Seton Hall Homepage Seton Hall News University Calendar SHU Athletics Support Seton Hall Seton Hall University Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Faculty Office of the Provost Resources Resources Undergraduate Admissions Office of Graduate Affairs Academic Calendar Mission and Ministry Alumni and Friends Quick Links Quick Links Seton Hall Homepage Seton Hall News University Calendar SHU Athletics Support Seton Hall Events PirateNet Menu Seton Hall University Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Faculty Office of the Provost Resources Undergraduate Admissions Office of Graduate Affairs Academic Calendar Mission and Ministry Alumni and Friends Quick Links Seton Hall Homepage Seton Hall News University Calendar SHU Athletics Support Seton Hall Events PirateNet University Site Search Seton Hall University Programs B.S., Interprofessional Health Sciences Graduate Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs About About the School Office of the Dean Our Faculty Interprofessional Education International Partnerships News and Events INS!GHTS Magazine Contact Us Resources Admissions Request Information Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Interprofessional Health Sciences Campus Library Clinical Supervisor Opportunities Student Organizations Student Performance Review Committee (SPRC) Academic Calendar The Rita and Lawrence Salva Endowed Fellowship Support the School Give Now B.S. in Interprofessional Health Sciences Now accepting students for this new degree program which offers three diverse concentrations to help prepare students to enter the healthcare workplace. read more The School of Health and Medical Sciences combines the expertise of Seton Hall University with the resources of affiliate healthcare sites to provide exemplary academic and clinical training in graduate-level health sciences and health administration. The School's emphasis on interprofessional education prepares healthcare leaders of tomorrow to focus on patient-centered care and to make a difference in patients' lives and their communities. Request Information Apply Now Attend an Info Session IN THE MEDIA PBS State of Affairs with Steve Adubato The Role of Ethics & Morality with the COVID Vaccine Biomedical Ethics Professor Bryan Pilkington discusses the role of ethics and morality when comes to the COVID-19 vaccine. View More Media NEWS New Health Sciences B.S. Program Launches this Fall This fall, the School of Health and Medical Sciences will welcome its first class of undergraduate students into the new Bachelor of Science in Interprofessional Health Sciences program. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS IN THE MEDIA NJ.com N.J. spent nearly $94 million on free at-home COVID test program over 10 weeks SMHS Healthcare Policy expert Nalin Johri reflects on the issues around governmental free COVID-19 testing programs. View More Media IN FOCUS SHU Alumna Trains Top Athletes Catherine Lass '13, set to train USA Basketball athletes at the 2021 FIBA U19 World Cup in Hungary. Read More IN FOCUS Insights Magazine Vol. 15 Read about how the School of Health and Medical Sciences is making a difference in the community, the classroom and the clinic. Read More IN FOCUS Online MHA Degree Discount Full-time employees of Atlantic Health System (AHS) and Hackensack Meridian Health (HMH) may be eligible for partner tuition discounts. Please email shms@shu.edu for more details. Read More what Great Minds Can Do Seton Hall Alum Coordinates Pharmaceutical Response to COVID-19 Two-time alum, James W. Love Jr., MHA, CPhT, BS '15, MHA '18 leads a team to receive and distribute the first Pfizer COVID Vaccine. read more School of Health and Medical Sciences Seton Hall University Interprofessional Health Sciences Campus 123 Metro Boulevard Nutley, NJ 07110 (973) 275-2800 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top