Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Events Calendar > Events Calendar > Harvard Chan Convocation: Classes of 2020 and 2021 This event has passed. Harvard Chan Convocation: Classes of 2020 and 2021 May 28 @ 10:00 am - 12:00 pm We will celebrate the Classes of 2020 and 2021 with remarks by Dean Michelle Williams, keynote speaker Jon LaPook, student speakers Nadhira Nuraini Afifa and Russell Simons, and a presentation of graduates. Location: Harvard Medical School Quad, Boston MA 02155 Saturday, May 28, 2022, 10am-12pm ET Learn more about Harvard Chan School graduation events Ceremony order Processional Acknowledgement of Native Land and Peoples Elizabeth Solomon Director of Administration Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences Member of the Massachusett Tribe at Ponkapoag Welcome Michelle A. Williams Dean of the Faculty Student Speech Nadhira Nuraini Afifa Master of Public Health Class of 2020 Student Speech Russell Simons Master of Public Health Class of 2021 Convocation Address Jon LaPook Chief Medical Correspondent, CBS News Mebane Professor of Gastroenterology, NYU Grossman School of Medicine Alumni Greetings Trishan Panch President, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Alumni Association Announcement of Graduates Amarildo “Lilu” Barbosa Chief Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Officer Graduates from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 will be presented by degree in alphabetical order. Biological Sciences in Public Health Sarah Fortune Biostatistics John Quackenbush Environmental Health Douglas Dockery Epidemiology Albert Hofman Global Health and Population Marcia Castro Health Policy and Management Arnold Epstein Immunology and Infectious Diseases Sarah Fortune Nutrition Frank Hu Population Health Sciences Eric Rimm Social and Behavioral Sciences Vaughan Rees Doctor of Public Health Richard Siegrist Presentation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights Michelle A. Williams Dean of the Faculty Closing Remarks Michelle A. Williams Dean of the Faculty Recessional + Add to Google Calendar+ Add to iCalendar Details Date: May 28 Time: 10:00 am - 12:00 pm Calendar(s): Academic Calendar, Public Events, School-wide Events, University-wide Events Related Events June Session Courses Begin June 6 Exec. Ed Online: Leading in Health Systems Activating Transformational Change June 6 @ 8:45 am - 12:00 pm Dismantling disinformation June 6 @ 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm Featured Events Dismantling disinformation June 6 @ 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm The 23rd Annual Harvard Nutrition Obesity Symposium – The Neurobiology of Eating Behavior in Obesity: Mechanisms and Novel Therapeutics June 8 @ 8:30 am - 4:30 pm Harvard Chan C-CHANGE Youth Summit on Climate Change and Public Health July 24 - July 30 More events Other calendars Office of Faculty Affairs Department of Biostatistics Department of Environmental Health Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences Department of Molecular Metabolism Submit an event Have an event you would like to appear on this calendar? How to submit an event We want to hear from you The Department of Information Technology and the Office of Communications look forward to hearing your feedback on how we can improve the calendar experience for both visitors to our site and administrators who plan events. Provide feedback About the Events Calendar (beta) project Harvard Chan School on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College