COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Courtesy Dr. Saideep Nannapaneni — assistant professor of industrial, systems, and manufacturing engineering at Wichita State University — was awarded a $175,000 grant for research that has implications for increasing the speed and accuracy of data-driven decision-making. July 13, 2021College of EngineeringResearchDigital Transformation WSU researcher awarded $175,000 NSF grant to help improve data-driven decision-making By Polly Basore Wenzl The National Science Foundation has awarded a $175,000 grant to Wichita State University’s Dr. Saideep Nannapaneni for research that has implications for increasing the speed and accuracy of data-driven decision-making. In decision-making – whether in engineering design, health care management or financial investments – people make predictions about what will happen based on what has happened in the past, using the data available, but recognizing that data may be incomplete or some of it inaccurate. “In most real-world scenarios, a system’s behavior is not completely known; it is uncertain, often influenced by several external factors," said Nannapaneni, assistant professor of industrial, systems and manufacturing engineering. "Typically, we collect data using sensors to understand such uncertain system’s behavior. Sensors are not perfect. This imperfection results in noise and imprecision in collected data and therefore, we need to make decisions in the presence of noisy imprecise data." Bayesian network is a widely used mathematical approach to represent uncertain system behavior, and for decision making in the presence of noisy and imprecise data. Dr. Nannapaneni’s research looks to adapt this approach to quantum computing, where information is processed in a fundamentally different manner than traditional computing. “The increased computational efficiency provided by the quantum computing paradigm can enable faster data analytics,” Nannapaneni said. Solving these challenges ultimately lead to being able to analyze data with greater speed, which leads to quicker decision making. This has implications in several fields of science and engineering such as in designing new high-performance materials, developing new drugs, medical health diagnosis, financial risk analysis and portfolio optimization. Dr. Nannapaneni is an assistant professor of industrial, systems and manufacturing engineering in the College of Engineering. He holds a PhD from Vanderbilt University. In addition to research, he teaches courses in advanced level statistics and engineering decision making. His NSF-awarded project is titled “Quantum Bayesian network simulation through efficient representation, transpilation, and uncertainty quantification.” His research was also awarded two smaller grants from NASA and the Kansas Board of Regents for his project titled, “Quantum algorithms for real-time prognostics and health management.” Read the grant abstract Industrial, Systems and Manufacturing Engineering The Industrial, Systems and Manufacturing Engineering Department at Wichita State University is committed to experience-based instruction and research in design, analysis and operation of manufacturing and other integrated systems of people, material, equipment and money. Simply put, our graduates make the world a better place by improving the way things work. Learn more about ISME at Wichita State Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio computer science Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters computer science Student-created parking app concept wins 2022 Koch Innovation Challenge students Meet a Shocker: Cameron McGinley 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©