Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Chemistry Why Study Here? Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Majors Minor Courses Advising Distinction Program Funding and Scholarship Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Learn More Graduate School Resources Apply Masters Program Ph.D. Programs Research Chemistry Graduate Student Association People Research Research Research Areas Research Opportunities Facilities About About Contact Us Seminar Series Alumni Connection Give ☰ SMU Department of Chemistry Departments Chemistry Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs The Department of Chemistry at SMU prepares students to meet the increasing demand for a scientifically trained workforce. SMU students and faculty build strong interactions in the classrooms, research labs, and through co-authoring papers. Accredited by the American Chemistry Society, the Department of Chemistry at SMU supports the commitment of the University to undergraduate learning, while also maintaining a strong graduate and research program. To support undergraduate chemistry majors, the department typically offers 15-20 scholarships annually. The atmosphere of the Chemistry Department is informal, and students have easy access to the faculty. All undergraduate chemistry majors are encouraged to join a faculty research group and work in teams with faculty, postdoctoral fellows, and graduate students. Graduates from the SMU Department of Chemistry are consistently accepted into leading graduate and professional schools in the nation. Those who choose employment after graduation have no difficulty finding positions, with a particular area of success being the local school districts. Majors Minor Undergraduate Programs Majors Minor Courses Advising Distinction Program Funding and Scholarship Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube