International Student and Scholar Services - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to ISSSO Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search International Student and Scholar Services Office Home About Location International Students Visiting Scholars Staff Contact Us Services Appointments Request Letters Online Enrollment Letter Concurrent Enrollment Letter Invitation Letter for Students Invitation Letter for Research Scholars Walk-In Students Optional Practical Training (OPT) How To Apply For OPT STEM Extension (OPTX) How to Apply for STEM Extension H-1B Cap Gap Extension OPT Self Report 90/150 Day Unemployment Rules Additional Information New Students Before Arrival Upon Arrival Housing Entry and Exit General Travel Requirements Applying For An F1 Visa Financial Services Departmental Scholarship ISSSO Scholarships F-1 Visa Students Reduced Course Load F-1 Employment I-20 Program Extension International Students on Academic Suspension SEVIS Transfer Procedures Reinstatement to Legal F-1 Status F-2 Visa Students J-1 Visa Students J1 Student Intern J-1 Student Employment J-2 Visa Students Employment Change of Status to F-1 ISSSO Scholarships International Student Organization (ISO) Departments International Faculty & Scholars Before Arrival About Houston About UH Upon Arrival Banking & Financial Tips Child Care Education for Children Health Care Houston Transportation Medical Emergencies Shopping Tips Safety And Security Housing On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing J-1 Research Scholars and Professors J-1/J-2 Insurance Requirements J-1/J-2 Employment Overview J-1 Employment/ Social Security Number Letter Regulations for J-1 Short-Term Scholars and Specialists Inviting Researchers or Professors from another Country Inviting J-Visa Research and Professors International Faculty Mentor Program Employment-Based Visa Resources News & Announcements Tax Information International Student Health Insurance International Friendship Program Forms & Publications Helpful Links Social Security Information Supporting the Global Campus Community Welcome to ISSSO COVID-19 News and Updates To better protect students, faculty, and staff from COVID-19, ISSSO staff will continue to work remotely to assist you, by telephone (713/743-5065) and email during the hours of 8:00 am to 5:00 pm, Monday through Friday. We do not accept walk-ins without being pre-arranged. Please email your documents and inquiries to isssohlp@central.uh.edu. Please submit documents under 5MB if possible. It is best to use a phone app such as Cam Scanner to submit documents in PDF format and indicate your UH/Student ID in the subject line. Use this email for: Any ISSSO related questions. ISSSO staff will follow up with your inquiries with instructions. And questions will be assigned to an advisor if necessary. Admission questions should be directed to either gradschool@uh.edu or admissions@uh.edu. To submit all ISSSO related applications and documents such as CPT, RCL, OPT STEM Extension, I-20 Program Extensions, Travel Endorsements, etc. You can schedule an appointment with an advisor online, but all appointments will be remote. The advisor will contact you in advance with instructions. To request a re-print I-20/DS-2019 with the travel endorsement, please email isssohlp@central.uh.edu with a travel endorsement request form. Alumni on OPT/OPT-X will be required to pay an additional $10 for a reprint of an I-20 with a payment being sent to ISSSO with a payment coupon. If you have an urgent matter needing to see an ISSSO staff, please call or email us to make the arrangement. July 14, 2021 Message to International Students COVID-19 Fall 2021 FAQ International Student and Scholar Services advance the goals of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services by providing for the special needs of international students and exchange visitors related to their status as non-immigrants of the United States. It fulfills the University of Houston's responsibility to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and promotes internationalization through comprehensive services and programs. Services Student Appointments To better protect students, faculty, and staff from COVID-19, all appointments will be remote. The advisor will contact you in advance with instructions. Faculty Assistance Resources for international faculty and scholars. Financial Support Information on available scholarships and emergency aid. Optional Practical Training Optional Practical Training (OPT) is defined in the regulations as "temporary employment for practical training directly related to the student's major area of study." Upcoming Events Event Calendar Recent Announcements Older Announcements ISSSO Events for Spring 2022 View a list of workshops and seminars that ISSSO has coordinated for the Spring semester. Spring 2022 Employment Seminar for International Students and Scholars This seminar will provide you with information regarding employment options and procedures for F-1 and J-1 visa holders. UH Career Counselors will join us to prepare you with better resume writing and interview skills. COVID-19 Spring 2022 FAQ Frequently asked questions regarding COVID-19 for the Spring 2022 semester. Airport Pick-Up Service ISSSO will be partnering with on campus organizations to provide airport pick up from January 6th through January 11th, 2022 to incoming international students. Phone & Fax Phone: (713) 743-5065 Fax: (713) 743-5079 Address University of Houston International Student and Scholar Services Student Center North. Room 203 4465 University Dr. Houston, TX 77204-3024 USA Office Hours Monday – Friday 8:00 am – 5:00 pm University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies