Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Academics At Rutgers, academics are about personal achievement, discovery, and community involvement. We’re a big university with countless opportunities to explore and pursue your interests. Across the university’s three locations—and online—undergraduate and graduate students, professionals, and lifelong learners alike encounter a diverse array of educational and research opportunities, delivered by world-class faculty. 150+ Undergraduate majors 400+ Graduate programs Top 25 Public university in the U.S. Your Journey Begins Here Whether you're seeking an undergraduate or graduate degree or just want to learn a new skill, Rutgers' broad range of academic offerings have you covered. See what inspires you. Start Exploring What kind of study are you looking for? Undergraduate Education What do you want to pursue? Biological and Life Sciences Business Communication, IT, and Journalism Engineering Environmental Sciences Fine and Performing Arts Foreign Languages Health Professions Humanities and Social Sciences Mathematics and Physical Sciences Start Over Graduate and Professional Studies Start Over Online Learning Online Degree Programs Search Online Courses Start Over Continuing Education Start Over Global Learning Start Over Noncredit Programs Start Over A Top Public University Attracts Top Scholars, Brilliant scholars make Rutgers an academic powerhouse. Why do they come? For many reasons: We’re a top public research university in the middle of one of the world’s greatest economic, political, and cultural regions. Our diverse population is energetic, driven, and exciting—the most diverse in the Big Ten. New, bold ideas find a home here. Our faculty have records of the highest scholarly achievement, and their everyday dedication prepares students for success and improves the quality of life for people around the world. More Faculty Excellence Benefits of Rutgers Academics Rutgers graduates are hired by leading corporations, attend top graduate schools, and win competitive medical residency matches. Undergraduate Student Success Rutgers welcomes more than 13,000 first-year and transfer students annually, many of whom are first-generation undergraduate students. Students choose Rutgers for their education because of its long history as a top research university, the breadth of academic and cultural opportunities, its diverse and welcoming student body, the proximity to the New York City and Philadelphia metro areas, and so much more. More about undergraduate academics Graduate and Professional Degrees Through our graduate and professional degree programs, Rutgers trains future generations of physicians, lawyers, scientists, business leaders, pharmacists, professors, public policy professionals, nurses, and so many more of the world’s changemakers. More about graduate and professional studies Global Learning Rutgers prepares its students to go out and succeed in the world, and it welcomes the world to come learn, research, and thrive in New Jersey. Every Rutgers student is welcome to experience international study and has access to affordable opportunities to study abroad. Additionally, Rutgers welcomes international students and helps them feel at home. More about Rutgers global learning Renowned Faculty Rutgers is home to esteemed faculty, leading researchers, and educators with a passion for sharing knowledge and cultivating in students a thoughtful, worldly, and informed point of view. More about Rutgers faculty Engaging Student Research World-class researchers delve into today’s complex challenges—an experience that students can share in and learn from. Whether in the laboratory or out in the field, Rutgers students get ample and rewarding research opportunities. More about student research experiences Libraries The Rutgers University Libraries provide the resources and services necessary to support the mission of the university in instruction, research, and public service through more than 20 libraries, centers, and reading rooms located in New Brunswick, Newark, and Camden. With more than five million volumes and thousands of digital resources, the Rutgers University Libraries rank among the nation’s top research libraries. Our libraries hold unique print and archival collections and are media-rich environments that provide dynamic electronic scholarly resources and services that are accessible 24 hours a day. University Libraries Homepage Ask a Librarian Libraries and Centers Search Library Resources Alumni, Community, and Guest Borrowing Privileges Explore Online Learning Rutgers offers a range of online degree, noncredit, and enrichment courses. Rutgers Online Search Rutgers Schedule of Classes Summer and Winter Sessions New Brunswick Newark Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences Rutgers’ intensive summer and winter sessions are open to Rutgers students, students home from other universities, high school students, and others. Take a class to meet requirements, earn credits, improve your GPA, or simply learn about a subject you love. Summer and Winter Session Summer Session Registration Winter Session Registration Rutgers’ intensive summer and winter terms are open to Rutgers students, students home from other universities, high school students and others. Take a class to meet requirements, earn credits, improve your GPA, or simply learn about a subject you love. Summer Session Winter Session Rutgers’ intensive summer and winter terms are open to Rutgers students, students home from other universities, high school students and others. Take a class to meet requirements, earn credits, improve your GPA, or simply learn about a subject you love. Summer Session Winter Session Rutgers’ intensive summer and winter sessions are open to Rutgers students, students home from other universities, high school students, and others. Take a class to meet requirements, earn credits, improve your GPA, or simply learn about a subject you love. Summer and Winter Session Summer Session Registration Winter Session Registration Discover Rutgers Start your application, visit, and learn more about attending Rutgers. Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid The Rutgers Experience Take a Tour Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster