Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Parking Services Parking right arrow down arrow Locations right arrow down arrow Maps Visitors right arrow down arrow Maps Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub UC Reading Victory Parkway Students right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Leased Properties Parking Permits Faculty & Staff right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub Victory Parkway UC Reading Value Pass Mobile Pay Instructions Citations right arrow down arrow View Account Events right arrow down arrow Events Calendar Football Basketball College-Conservatory of Music Event & Meeting Planners Other Event Prepaid Parking Instructions Athletic Events Prepaid Parking Resources right arrow down arrow Policies How-To Videos Alternative Transportation FAQ Home » About UC » Parking Services » Events » College-Conservatory of Music Set Navigation title in component Events Calendar Football Basketball College-Conservatory of Music Event & Meeting Planners Other Event Prepaid Parking Instructions Athletic Events Prepaid Parking CCM Event Parking During major College-Conservatory of Music events, CCM Garage will be $10 cash on entry. Parking passes may be prepurchased from the CCM Box Office. Rates for CCM events are subject to change based on other campus events. Parking Events Calendar CCM Event Schedule Prepurchase Parking Pass For CCM Event CCM Event Parking Cost: $10 Takes place for all events where more than 200 patrons are expected. CCM parking staff are on-site for these events. When events are scheduled, all visitors pay the event rate as they enter the CCM Garage whether or not they are attending the event. Exit gates will be open at the conclusion of the event. Parking passes may be prepurchased from the CCM Box Office or purchased by cash on entry. Hourly Parking Weekday Rates Hourly* garage rates Time (Hours) Rate 0 - 1 $3 1 - 1.5 $6 1.5 - 2 $7 2 - 2.5 $8 2.5 - 3 $9 3 - 24 $10 (Maximum) Lost Entry Ticket $20 Evening and Weekend Rates Evening and weekend* garage rates Days Rate Per Day Monday - Friday, enter after 3 p.m. $7 Saturday - Sunday $5 Hourly Parking Payment Pay Stations Take your ticket with you when leaving your vehicle Signs in each facility will identify the location of the Pay Station. Payment must be made at the Pay Station prior to returning to your vehicle if paying with cash. The Pay Stations will accept cash payments of $1, $5, $10 and $20, as well as credit cards and a Bearcat Card. Credit card payments may be made at the exit gate. Visitors receiving vouchers may proceed directly to the exit lanes. Insert ticket/receipt as indicated at the exit Parking Alternatives Other UC Garages CCM patrons may choose to park at any of the garages on UC's West Campus. The alternate garage closest to CCM is the Calhoun Garage, located on Calhoun Street. More information on other UC garages. Street Parking Street Parking is available in the area surrounding the University. The locations nearest to CCM are on Calhoun Street, McMillan Avenue and Clifton Avenue. City of Cincinnati meters are in effect Monday-Saturday 8 a.m. until 9 p.m. Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 parking@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top