Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Social Wellbeing Economic Stress Concerns about personal finances are a source of everyday stress among many college students. A 2020 national study by the Ohio State University on college students and financial wellness, found that 74% of respondents agreed or strongly agreed that they were stressed out about their personal finances in general. What is economic stress? Economic stress is the feeling of stress due to the current state of one's personal finances and/or due to fear about the economy. Although some stress can be healthy, in the way that it can give you the energy and initiative to take needed actions or encourages you to challenge yourself, economic stress can have harmful impacts, especially for college students. Research demonstrates that economic stress can be triggered by a number of factors: experiences of a job loss or home major changes to your family's income and budget the feeling of not having enough financial resources compared to others balancing the need to work while in college Specifically for Brown students, the feeling of having fewer financial resources than other Brown students can cause a significant amount of financial stress. The perception that "all Brown students are wealthy" can create stress and isolation for those who do not come from affluent backgrounds. While this perception might not be accurate, it can sometimes be difficult to find students with the same financial concerns that you have. If you believe you are suffering from economic stress, you are not alone. Over 33% of college students nationwide feel that their academic progress is negatively impacted by financial stressors. What are symptoms of economic stress? Symptoms of economic stress can include many of the common symptoms of stress: trouble sleeping digestive problems unexplained weight gain or loss inability to enjoy regular activities severe anxiety or even panic attacks. Economic-specific symptoms can include hyper-focusing on financial issues and avoidance behaviors (e.g., letting unopened bills pile up). Sometimes symptoms may emerge during times of economic stress as flash points. These flashpoints may become more frequent and burdensome as struggles to cover living costs or college costs become more overwhelming. These tensions can lead to discord among family and friends, as well as cause or intensify feelings of depression and anxiety. What are strategies to manage economic stress? You may feel helpless because many of the factors contributing to the economic stress you face are beyond your control, but there are ways to reduce these negative feelings. There are simple steps you can take to manage your stress level and work towards increased control and choices in your financial situation. According to a national study the resources listed below have been ranked the most helpful by college students: One-on-one financial counseling Seminar on money management Seminar on managing student loans Online financial education Here are some other basic strategies to reduce levels of economic stress: Prioritize and plan-- having a plan in place and identifying resources which can support that plan will help you to feel more secure and in control. Discuss financial concerns and plans with your parents or other family members and work together to identify resources and options. Track your day-to-day spending and make changes where you can. Consult with the Office of Financial Aid if your family's financial situation has changed significantly. They can work with you and your family to identify options available to assist in paying your student account. If you are worried about how the financial market is affecting job prospects, the Career Lab can assist with your planning. Communicate-- Regular communication about financial issues can help everyone to feel more secure and reduce tensions about money. Talk to your family about finances-- this can help you to know whether your fears and concerns are realistic. Frequent communication about financial issues can help everyone to feel more secure and reduce family tensions about money. Seek out friends and campus staff and faculty as well. Learning that others also worry about these issues and learning about their coping strategies can be helpful in gaining perspective on your own situation. Do what you can, then move on-- Some of the most stressful situations are those in which you have no control. Your personal finances will take time to change, be patient. Limit worrying time to one or two specific times each week, and then practice letting it go. Constant worrying, especially when you've done all you can to improve the situation, will only make your levels of stress higher. Change the focus-- One important way to stop worrying about the financial situation is to change the focus to other important parts of life. Spend time doing things you love, particularly things that are inexpensive or free. Take advantage of the many free activities and events on campus. Check here to see what's happening on campus! Throw yourself into the work for your favorite class. Spend time with friends who help you to take your mind off your worries. Think positive-- Your thoughts are powerful. Focus your thoughts on positive ideas and outcomes Focus on your strengths rather than the difficulties, on possibilities rather than fears Spend time each day affirming that you will be able to handle each of the challenges you face, and reminding yourself of the good times that lie ahead. There are many resources out there with tips and guidelines for dealing with economic stress; a few are posted below. How to Reduce Your Financial Stress in College Financial Literacy at Brown 3 Smart Ways to Reduce Stress and Cut Costs Managing Your Stress What are some warning signs that I need help coping with my stress? Signs that you are experiencing an overload of stress can range from a general feeling of the "blahs" to serious physical pain. Although most stress can be managed, the warning signs below can mean it would be wise to seek help before you reach a crisis point. If you experience the following situations or feelings, you should seek out one of the many professional support resources on campus. Behavioral symptoms: Overreacting to minor problems Inappropriate anger or impatience Overeating or loss of appetite Increased use of alcohol, tobacco or other drugs Inability to relax Constantly feeling anxious Experiencing long periods of boredom Disrupted sleeping patterns Problems with sexual activity Decreased school or work performance Diminished ability to set priorities and make decisions Being prone to make errors or being accident prone Physical symptoms: Increased headaches Cold hands and feet Indigestion Aching neck or back Ulcers Nausea Diarrhea or constipation Shortness of breath Heart palpitations Teeth grinding Muscle spasms Skin conditions like acne and psoriasis Stress can be a factor in a variety of physical and emotional illnesses, which should be professionally treated. You should consult your medical provider if you experience physical symptoms in the above list. Brown students can make an appointment with Health Services by calling 401.863-3953. You should also consult a therapist from Counseling and Psychological Services (401.863-3476) for unmanageable acute stress, high levels of anxiety, or depression. You can also read more about stress in general here. What are smart money management strategies for college students? Establishing a pattern of smart money management and developing your financial literacy now will serve you well during college and in the future. These skills and strategies can also help you to manage economic stress and to gain a sense of control over your financial situation. Managing family resources Your family may be providing you with a little or a lot of financial support during college. In college, you may find that your relationship with your family and your discussions and agreements about money may be changing. Some good ways to handle your family relationships and resources include: Explaining and talking regularly about what you need: If you haven't lived on your own before, you may underestimate your initial expenses or you may have an unexpected expense like a lost or broken phone or laptop. Clarifying who is responsible for what expense: Knowing what your family is able and prepared to pay for and what you will need to pay for will allow everyone to make informed financial choices. Discuss who will be responsible for expenses like tuition, books, housing, food, spending money, and fees for extracurricular activities. Establishing good money management habits: Read through the budgeting, credit card and employment tips below and work to manage any resources your family provides as carefully and responsibly as possible. Budgeting It is smart to begin budgeting your money now. A budget can help you keep track of your expenses, analyze your income and set financial goals for yourself. By setting limits on your spending categories and sticking to them, you can form spending habits which will help you throughout college and beyond. A budget should be used as a guideline, not as a contract set in stone. A budget will simply help you figure out what you really want to spend your money on. Be honest with yourself about where you can allow yourself to spend and where you should save so you have money for the things you most want and need. Creating a budget doesn't have to be hard. You can create your budget using an online tool or software program (links below) or the old fashioned way with a pen and paper. Quicken.com Mint.com Paper and Pen Budget Credit cards According to a 2019 nation-wide survey by Sallie Mae, 57% of college students report having credit cards. On average, students with credit cards report having 5 different cards. This is an increase over 2016, when the average number of cards was 3. Many students quickly find out how easy it is to run up credit card debt. In 2019, according to the Sallie Mae survey, the average undergraduate owed $1,183 on credit cards, an increase of 31% over 2016. The interest and fees charged by credit card companies can add up quickly and, when you don't pay your balance in full and on time, this means that there are hidden costs for each purchase you make on your credit card. To avoid falling into this trap when using a credit card: Keep track of all the purchases you make through an empty check register, small notebook, or list on your computer. When your credit card bill arrives, take a few minutes to compare your list to what you've been billed for. Keeping track of your spending will also allow you to recognize quickly if there are any unauthorized charges to your card or other fraudulent activity on your account. Remember, the temptation of credit cards can be very real, and although the card is plastic, you are spending real money that has to be repaid, and, if you don't pay your balance in full each month, repaid with interest. Employment during college Many students find that working during college is a necessity and, chosen carefully, work can be tremendous complement to your college education. Ideally, work can help you to meet your expenses and build your resume at the same time. However, it is important to balance it as best you can with your need to commit time and energy to your studies. You will want to choose your college job(s) thoughtfully, and think carefully about how you will make school and employment work together. When considering working while in college, it is important to consider how many hours you will be able to work. Remember that there are a lot of other things happening outside of class at Brown that you will want to devote time to, such as campus groups and activities, building friendships, volunteer opportunities, and special events. Research suggests that working 20 hours or less is manageable for students across the country, but every student has a unique situation and finding the balance between work and classes may take time. In general, on-campus jobs tends to be more flexible and allow you to make necessary changes to your schedule based on your classes each semester and/or during exam time. It is also important to let your family, and your employer, know if you are having trouble working as much as you had planned to. To find a job on campus at Brown, check out the following resources: Student Employment at Brown Hourly Rates at Brown Federal Work Study and Campus Employment Career Lab and Life After Brown Related Links Financial Aid Office 401.863-2721 The Office of Financial Aid can assist you and your family in identifying options available to assist in paying your student account. The Financial Aid Office is located on the 2nd floor of Page-Robinson Hall on the corner of Brown and Waterman Streets. Center for Careers and Life After Brown 401.863-3326 The Careers Center supports individual Brown students at all stages of the career development process and offers one-on-one counseling appointments, walk in hours, employer information sessions and programs and workshops. The Center is located in the Hemisphere Building at 167 Angell Street. Student Employment Office 401.863-9922 The Student Employment Office maintains job listings and offers information on federal work study. The office is located on the 2nd floor of Page-Robinson Hall on the corner of Brown and Waterman Streets. Counseling and Psychological Services 401.863-3476 If you are experiencing acute stress, high levels of anxiety, or depression you can consult a therapist from Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). CAPS is located in the Health and Wellness building at 450 Brook Street. Undocumented, First Generation College and Low-Income Student Center (U-Fli Center) 401.863-5675 The Undocumented, First-Generation College and Low-Income Student Center (U-FLiCenter) is a communal academic and social space for members of the Brown community who identify with the undocumented, first-generation college and/or low-income student experience. By providing students, faculty, and staff with a dedicated space that affirms their intersectional identities, the U-FLiCenter aims to contribute to the endurance and success of the first-generation college and low-income communities at Brown Health Services 401.863-3953 You can make an appointment with a provider at Health Services if you are experiencing physical symptoms of stress. Health Services is located in Andrews House at 13 Brown Street, on the corner of Brown and Charlesfield Streets. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook