Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Student Financial Services Adjustment of Academic Fees Tuition, University Fees, and Health Fee for Students Withdrawing, Dropping to Part-Time, or Part-Time Students Dropping Credit Hours Adjustment Policy Adjustment Policy for Tuition, University Fees, and Health Fee for Students Withdrawing, Dropping to Part-Time, or Part-Time Students Dropping Credit Hours Students who are admitted and register for courses at Clemson University are financially responsible for fees and charges associated with those courses. Therefore, students are encouraged to complete all courses for which they register. In the event it becomes necessary for a student to drop one or more courses or completely withdraw from the University, an adjustment may be made. Warning! Withdrawing from the University may be costly. It may affect the student's financial as well as academic status. No adjustments will be made on a semester's tuition and fees after four weeks from the last day to register. In the case of a withdrawal from the University, adjustments will be based on the date the student drops their course(s) using the online registration system. In the case of a dropped course, adjustments will be based on the date the student drops the course using the online registration system. To be eligible for an adjustment, the student's drop must post prior to the beginning of the next fall or spring semester or subsequent summer term. Beginning with the day following the last day to register, adjustments for periods of four weeks or less during the fall/spring semester shall be made on the following basis. Students receiving Title IV Financial Aid follow a different policy. Period of Enrollment and Adjustment Percentage Fall/Spring Semester Period of Enrollment Adjustment Percentage For Liable Hours Registration day(s) in the published academic calendar 100% After the last day to register: one week or less 80% More than 1 but not more than 2 weeks 60% More than 2 but not more than 3 weeks 40% More than 3 but not more than 4 weeks 20% More than 4 weeks 0% Enrollment Term Periods Parts of Term Period of Enrollment Less than 3 weeks 3 Weeks 5-6 Weeks More than 6 weeks Registration day(s) in the published academic calendar 100% 100% 100% 100% After the last day to register: one week or less 0% 40% 60% 60% More than 1 but not more than 2 weeks 0% 0% 20% 40% More than 2 but not more than 3 weeks 0% 0% 0% 20% More than 3 weeks 0% 0% 0% 0% In the event the University must suspend or close due to force majeure, no adjustment of tuition or fees and/or financial aid shall be made. "Force majeure" shall mean any cause or event which is outside the control of the University and may include war, flood, storm, epidemic or financial exigency. Change in Instructional Method Clemson University reserves the right to change the delivery of its courses at any time to partial or total online delivery without penalty due to circumstances beyond the University's control, including but not limited to natural disasters (e.g., tornado, earthquake, flood, hurricane, etc.), war, terrorist act, strike, public health outbreak (e.g., pandemic or wide-spread &/or infectious disease outbreak), fire, the release of nuclear material or dangerous substance into the environment or other catastrophic event or major disruption of University operations or for any other reason. If the delivery of courses is changed to partial or total online delivery, there will be no credit of any tuition (including academic fees and program fees). There will be no credit of other fees related to services that continue to be provided whether in person or in a virtual, online, electronic or another system. Credits, if any, for fees for services (other than tuition, academic or program fees) that do not continue due to partial or total online course delivery or related closure of facilities would be subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees. Later charges for fees could be incurred if (1.) credits are made and (2.) partial or total online course delivery reverts to in-person delivery prior to the end of the semester and (3.) discontinued services supported by fees begin again prior to the end of the semester. Any credit is first applied to the then-outstanding balance on a student account. Therefore after the application of credit, a student may not receive payment and is still obligated to pay the remaining balance on the student’s account. Adjustment of Financial Aid for Students Withdrawing from the University Adjustments of academic fees are made in accordance with semester and summer session adjustment policies. University housing refunds and policies may be found on the University Housing and Dining website. Meal plan refunds are made on a pro-rata basis. Additional information can be obtained from the Office of Student Financial Aid. Since financial aid is expected to meet or help meet educational costs, any academic fee, housing, or meal plan fee for students withdrawing from the University up to the amount of financial aid received for that semester or summer session, will be refunded to the Financial Aid Program(s) from which the student received assistance. Students receiving Title IV Funds (Federal Pell Grant, Federal SEOG, Federal Perkins, Federal Direct Loans–unsubsidized or subsidized) or Federal PLUS Loans who withdraw from the University are subject to the Return of Title IV Funds regulations. Students with funds from any of these programs earn their financial aid dollars while enrolled. If a student withdraws prior to completing over 60% of a term, a prorated portion of the federal financial aid dollars must be considered unearned and returned to the federal programs which could cause students to owe the University a significant amount upon withdrawal. In addition to the amount of federal aid that Clemson must return, students who received financial aid for other educational costs, including off-campus living expenses, may be required to repay a portion of those funds to the federal programs. Failure to return aid owed to the federal aid programs may result in loss of eligibility for federal aid assistance. Federal aid funds to be returned are distributed to the programs in the following order: Unsubsidized Federal Direct Loan Subsidized Federal Direct Loan Federal PLUS Loan Federal Pell Grant Federal SEOG Other Title IV Programs Non-Title IV Program After the adjustment has been applied to the Title IV and non-Title IV programs, any remaining credit balance will be refunded to the student. If debts were incurred before withdrawing, such as payments returned to us as unpaid, unpaid citations or library fines, etc., the refund will cover these obligations first. Academic fees, housing, and meal plan refunds for students withdrawing will be paid to the student. Please click here for more information on withdrawing from the University. Spring 2022 Withdrawal/Drop Periods Spring 2022 Withdrawal/Drop Periods are as follows: Adjustment dates and percentages for Spring 2022 Spring 2022 Percentage Charged of Dropped Hours Last day to register January 19 Drop/Withdraw on or before January 19 No Charge Drop/Withdraw January 20-26 20% Drop/Withdraw January 27-February 2 40% Drop/Withdraw February 3-9 60% Drop/Withdraw February 10-16 80% Drop/Withdraw February 17 100% Last day to receive a lab fee adjustment January 26 Adjustment dates and percentages for First Spring First Spring Percentage Charged of Dropped Hours Last day to register January 18 Drop/Withdraw on or before January 18 No Charge Drop/Withdraw January 19-25 40% Drop/Withdraw January 26-February 1 60% Drop/Withdraw February 2-8 80% Drop/Withdraw on or after February 9 100% Last day to receive a lab fee adjustment January 25 Adjustment dates and percentages for Second Spring Second Spring Percentage Charged of Dropped Hours Last day to register March 14 Drop/Withdraw on or before March 14 No Charge Drop/Withdraw March 15-21 40% Drop/Withdraw March 22-28 60% Drop/Withdraw March 29-April 4 80% Drop/Withdraw on or after April 5 100% Last day to receive a lab fee adjustment March 21 Adjustment dates and percentages for Spring Mini A Spring Mini A Percentage Charged of Dropped Hours Last day to register January 12 Drop/Withdraw on or before January 12 No Charge Drop/Withdraw January 13-20 60% Drop/Withdraw on or after January 21 100% Adjustment dates and percentages for Spring Mini B Spring Mini B Percentage Charged of Dropped Hours Last day to register February 7 Drop/Withdraw on or before February 7 No Charge Drop/Withdraw February 8-14 60% Drop/Withdraw on or after February 15 100% Adjustment dates and percentages for Spring Mini C Spring Mini C Percentage Charged of Dropped Hours Last day to register March 7 Drop/Withdraw on or before March 7 No Charge Drop/Withdraw March 8-14 60% Drop/Withdraw on or after March 15 100% Adjustment dates and percentages for Spring Mini D Spring Mini D Percentage Charged of Dropped Hours Last day to register April 11 Drop/Withdraw on or before April 11 No Charge Drop/Withdraw April 12-18 60% Drop/Withdraw on or after April 19 100% Summer 2022 Withdrawal/Drop Periods Summer 2022 Withdrawal/Drop Periods are as follows: Adjustment dates and percentages for Summer 2022 Summer 2022 Percentage Charged of Dropped Hours Last day to register May 18 Drop/Withdraw on or before May 18 No Charge Drop/Withdraw May 19-25 40% Drop/Withdraw May 26-June1 60% Drop/Withdraw June 2-8 80% Drop/Withdraw June 9 100% Last day to receive a lab fee adjustment May 25 Adjustment dates and percentages for First Summer First Summer Percentage Charged of Dropped Hours Last day to register May 18 Drop/Withdraw on or before May 18 No Charge Drop/Withdraw May 19-25 40% Drop/Withdraw May 26-June 1 80% Drop/Withdraw on or after June 2 100% Last day to receive a lab fee adjustment May 25 Adjustment dates and percentages for Second Summer Second Summer Percentage Charged of Dropped Hours Last day to register June 30 Drop/Withdraw on or before June 30 No Charge Drop/Withdraw July 1-7 40% Drop/Withdraw July 8-14 80% Drop/Withdraw on or after July 15 100% Last day to receive a lab fee adjustment July 7 Adjustment dates and percentages for Summer Mini A Summer Mini A Percentage Charged of Dropped Hours Last day to register May 17 Drop/Withdraw on or before May 17 No Charge Drop/Withdraw on or after May 18 100% Adjustment dates and percentages for Summer Mini B Summer Mini B Percentage Charged of Dropped Hours Last day to register June 7 Drop/Withdraw on or before June 7 No Charge Drop/Withdraw on or after June 8 100% Adjustment dates and percentages for Summer Mini C Summer Mini C Percentage Charged of Dropped Hours Last day to register June 28 Drop/Withdraw on or before June 28 No Charge Drop/Withdraw on or after June 29 100% Adjustment dates and percentages for Summer Mini D Summer Mini D Percentage Charged of Dropped Hours Last day to register July 20 Drop/Withdraw on or before July 20 No Charge Drop/Withdraw on or after July 21 100% How Adjustments are Calculated Download: In-state Calculation (PDF) Out-of-state Calculation (PDF) Full- to Part-Time Calculation ( PDF) Adjustments Student Financial Services is responsible for processing academic and departmental tuition and fee adjustments. The following situations may result in an adjustment, pending the transaction occurs before the appropriate deadlines: Change in a full-time student's schedule, which results in reclassification to part-time status Change in a part-time student's schedule, which results in fewer credit hours Withdrawal from the University Cancellation of a class by the University Because several offices may be involved in finalizing your adjustment, the process may take 1-2 weeks to complete. How to Calculate Adjustments Adjustment calculations are based on the date of the drop/withdrawal in the system. This date is not determined or controlled by Student Financial Services. Student adjustments for tuition, activity fee and technology fee are calculated based on the student’s liable hours after the drop/withdrawal. Liable hours are calculated as the total hours a student is still registered plus the liable portion of the dropped/withdrawn course(s). For students whose liable hours are 12 or more, no refunds are generated. The liable portion is computed by taking the number of dropped credit hours times the liability rate (which is 100 percent minus the refund percentage). The adjustment amount is determined to be the difference between the original assessment and the assessment based on the new liable hours. If the original assessment is less than or equal to the liable hour assessment, no adjustment is due. Notes on other fees Some fees (health fee, career center fee, library fee, matriculation fee, transit fee, campus recreation fee) are not refundable after the 100% adjustment period. Housing and Meal Plans are refunded at a pro-rata rate. Additional information can be found on the University Housing and Dining website. Lab fees are non-refundable after the last day to drop without a ‘W.’ Course and Major fees are assessed based on student status and/or student enrollment. Adjustments are calculated based on the student’s liable hours. Home Tuition and Fees Paying Your Bill Authorized User/Parent Adjustments Prior Terms eRefunds Parent PLUS eRefunds 1098-T Non-Enrolled Collections FAQ Contact Us Orientation Resources Related Links Office of the Executive Vice President for Finance and Operations Academic Success Center Financial Aid Housing and Dining Parking Services Tiger 1 Card Registrar's Office Academic Calendar Graduate School Office of Global Engagement Study Abroad Student Insurance Information Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram