Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Office of University Communications Office of University Communications Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Forward Menu Main Nav BC Forward COVID Testing Back Back Close Updates Overview Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. Faculty & Staff Students & Parents Visitors COVID Testing Results COVID Testing Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Home Updates September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Updates Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. September 10, 2021 Dear Students: I write to provide updates on expanded COVID-19 testing times and to offer reminders on how to stay healthy this semester. To avoid lines for COVID-19 testing in the Margot Connell Recreation Center, University Health Services has expanded asymptomatic surveillance testing to five days a week. The new hours are: Mondays 9 am – 3 pm Tuesdays 9 am – 3 pm Wednesdays 6:30 am – 2:30 pm Thursdays 9 am – 3 pm Fridays 9 am – 3 pm I urge any student who develops symptoms of COVID-19 to contact University Health Services immediately and arrange testing. It is imperative that symptomatic students stay in their residence hall room or off-campus apartment to limit the potential spread of the virus. In addition, I encourage students to make wise choices regarding indoor gatherings. Boston College is a highly vaccinated campus with an overall community vaccination rate of 99.3 percent. Nonetheless, the Delta variant is very transmissible, and breakthrough cases continue to occur throughout the state, the nation, and the world. Restaurants, clubs, and bars in the area will have guests who most likely are not vaccinated at levels comparable to the BC community. Please use good judgment in making plans for socializing so we can all do our part in limiting the spread of COVID-19. I remind all students that face masks/coverings are required in indoor spaces on campus that are open to the public, including dining halls (except when eating or drinking), BC bookstores, Conte Forum, the McMullen Museum of Art, and BC buses. The University has had a successful opening of the fall semester, but must remain vigilant so it can have as normal an academic year as possible. Please continue in your efforts to help keep the BC community and surrounding neighborhoods as healthy and safe as possible. Sincerely, Dr. Douglas Comeau Director of University Health Services Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College