Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information COVID-19 COVID-19 news from experts at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Visit our Coronavirus Resource Center for the latest COVID-19 information for CUIMC providers, staff, students, researchers and patients. Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: COVID at Two Years COVID-19 Videos Top Stories Is a Second COVID Vaccine Booster Right for You? Columbia infectious disease expert Marcus Pereira explains what’s known about the benefits of a second COVID vaccine booster. Topic Infectious Diseases Unfinished Business: Columbia Hosts 2nd COVID Vaccine Symposium On March 28, world leaders and global health experts will gather for Columbia University’s second annual Virtual Symposium on Vaccines and Global Health. Topic Infectious Diseases Delayed Recovery of Consciousness Is Common for COVID Patients on Respirators COVID patients who remain unresponsive after receiving respiratory support may require long time periods to regain consciousness; delays are related to blood oxygen levels. Topic Infectious Diseases Preparing a Pandemic Response for All New Yorkers Columbia has helped launch New York City’s new Pandemic Response Institute, which will develop an equitable crisis response that doesn’t leave people behind. Topic Public Health Latest News In Responding to COVID-19, CUIMC Rallied Around Community March 4, 2022 When COVID arrived, the medical center partnered with residents, community health workers, and elected officials to meet local needs. Topic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Computer Modeling: Anticipating Rise and Fall of Pandemic’s Waves March 4, 2022 Computer models have helped anticipate COVID’s peaks and troughs, but models have a “cone of uncertainty” and much about the future of the pandemic remains unknown. Topic Public Health Telemedicine Beyond COVID-19 March 4, 2022 Telemedicine as a way to deliver health care is here to stay. Columbia physicians are working together with members of the engineering and business schools to advance implementation of telemedicine. Topic General Medicine The Pandemic Changed How Science is Conducted March 4, 2022 What was learned by researchers during the pandemic has changed the mindset for scientists: “Why do we have to follow the old routine when we see a new paradigm working so well?” Topic Research The Kids are Not All Right March 4, 2022 Children were spared the worst of COVID-19 early on, but they are now suffering psychological consequences from the pandemic’s social upheaval. Here’s what parents and educators can do. Topic Pediatrics The Student Experience March 4, 2022 The COVID pandemic transformed students’ education but also imparted profound experiences that students say will make them stronger practitioners and leaders. Topic Education The Pandemic’s Toll on Health Care Workers March 4, 2022 Columbia health care workers tell us about the pandemic’s toll on their lives and what CUIMC is doing to alleviate the burden. Emotional support, self-care, and instilling hope are key. Topic Mental Health Study Suggests How Post-COVID Syndrome, MIS-C, Gets Started in Children March 4, 2022 New insights by Columbia researchers into MIS-C, a rare but serious complication of COVID in children, may lead to faster diagnosis and better treatment. Topic Infectious Diseases Vaccine and Antibody Treatment Effectiveness Blunted by All Three Omicron Subvariants March 3, 2022 COVID vaccines and monoclonal antibody treatments offer less protection against new omicron subvariants, a new study from researchers at Columbia and University of Hong Kong finds. Topic Infectious Diseases We need to know more about long COVID in kids. February 10, 2022 Columbia researchers could receive up to $9.4 million to learn about long COVID in children and young adults as part of NIH’s REsearching COVID to Enhance Recovery (RECOVER) initiative.   Topic Campus News Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top