Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University For: Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give Michigan State University About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More | Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now | Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours | Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility | Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More | Athletics MSUToday Featured stories April 4, 2022 What is an isotope? March 2, 2022 Historic firsts for Spartan women: Meet some of the trailblazing women who left their mark on MSU. Feb. 23, 2022 A group of MSU scientists and researchers studying critical areas explain how their research addresses five big questions about a changing climate. All Stories Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Athletics < About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More < Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now < Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours < Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility < Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give MSUToday > Nine reasons to be Spartan proud There are countless reasons to take pride in being a Spartan. Here are just a few accomplishments of those who make MSU a place where all belong, all can excel, and all can make a difference. Watch and read Campus updates Learn more about all COVID-19 and campus precautions on the Together We Will website. FRIB's scientific mission Opening the doors to discovery The Facility for Rare Isotope Beams will be the preeminent user facility of its kind in the world — and home to the world’s most powerful heavy-ion accelerator — funded by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science, the state of Michigan and MSU. Learn more Latest news Historic confirmation MSU economist and professor Lisa D. Cook was confirmed by the Senate Banking Committee to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Cook is the first Black woman to serve on the board in its 108-year history. Read more Plaque rededication As the nation honors the sacrifices of the veterans who have fought for its freedoms and made the ultimate sacrifice, MSU is honoring the legacy of one Spartan veteran in particular for his lasting impact on campus. Read more Supporting research, discovery In a show of support for the innovative partnership between Henry Ford Health and MSU, Detroit philanthropists Ron and Heather Boji have made a foundational donation of $5 million. Read more Story May 23, 2022 The week in photos: May 16–22, 2022 No. 1 nuclear physics graduate program for past 13 years 39 MSU programs ranked in the top 25 nationally Culture of Support Know more. Do more. Support more. Learn how Important info Get vaccinated Making sure this school year is a healthy and safe one takes the entire MSU community working together. All students, staff and faculty members are required to be vaccinated. By getting a COVID-19 vaccine, Spartans can protect themselves, each other and our communities. We are all in this together and, together, we will keep campus safe. Do your part and get your vaccine now. Find out how Future Spartans, we're here for you. Application status Have you already applied to be a Spartan? See where you stand in the admissions process and keep it moving forward. Go to your account Request information Want to find out more about what life is like as a Spartan? We have the most up-to-date information you need on your journey to become a Spartan and join the MSU community. We're always happy to help! Contact us Take a virtual tour Welcome to the home of generations of Spartans. Until we can meet in person, take some time to virtually explore the beautiful, legendary MSU campus and learn more about iconic points of interest. It will already start to feel like home. Explore Story May 25, 2022 Bringing back Michigan’s lake sturgeon May 30 ArtPath 2022 Campus Initiatives Strategic Plan: MSU 2030 MSU used an inclusive and comprehensive strategic planning process to create a shared vision for the future and a common set of principles and values to guide our work. Learn more Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Plan To recognize the importance of diversity, equity and inclusion as a foundation for university, MSU is using a comprehensive DEI planning process focusing on those values and working in collaboration with the overall strategic planning process. Read more Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Plan The RVSM Strategic Plan stems from work by leading researchers and experts in the field to develop a plan for survivor services, prevention efforts, and climate and culture change initiatives. Learn more Podcast Conversations with leaders Check out the fifth installment in a series of podcasts with MSU leaders who are advancing implementation of the university’s strategic plan. This edition focuses on the diversity, equity and inclusion theme of the plan with its executive sponsor, Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer Jabbar Bennett. Listen Find out more Learn about MSU Explore our Academics Discover our Research Stay connected Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update to receive timely news, groundbreaking research, inspiring videos, Spartan profiles and more. Email address Sign Up Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update Thank you for subscribing! MSUToday Weekly Enjoy a curated collection of stories, photos, videos and featured content from across campus, delivered each Wednesday afternoon. MSUDaily Update Start your day with the latest Spartans Will! Featuring quick news bites, timely information, campus views, words of wisdom, essential info and a little inspiration, this email is delivered on weekday mornings. Please help us deliver content you’re most interested in. Check the topics you would like to read about. You are now signed up to receive the MSUToday Update. Coming to your inbox soon — a quick and easy way to keep up to date on the latest news about Spartans and the work they’re doing on campus and around the world. Go Green! Lisa Mulcrone, MSUToday editor Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports Submit Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student information system D2L Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services Health4U MSU Health Care Inc. Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program Reports CARES Act Funding Student achievement and outcomes Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University