Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Nurse Practitioner Group A Columbia Nursing education enables students to practice at the highest extent of their preparation, providing accurate, independent diagnosis, and evidence-based treatments and interventions. Our world-class faculty serve as both educators and clinical role models. Most maintain an active practice, introducing students to the challenges of clinical practice by bringing real-world experiences and scenarios into the classroom Columbia Nursing’s faculty practice opened at Columbia-Presbyterian Eastside in Manhattan on September 29, 1997. The faculty's first commercial venture, originally called Columbia Advanced Practice Nurse Associates (CAPNA), responded to the need to further validate cost, quality, and competence benefits of advanced practice nurses. In 2016 it was rebranded as ColumbiaDoctors Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Group. Today, the practice operates out of a practice location in Washington Heights, just across the street from Columbia Nursing. Additional practice components include a nurse practitioner house calls service in upper Manhattan and using telehealth to increase access to care. As part of their practicum, both student nurses and student advanced practice registered nurses have an opportunity for clinical preparation via rotations through the primary care faculty practice. The faculty practice sub-specializes in the following areas: Integrated mental health Palliative care within the primary care setting Care of LGBTQ individuals In addition, Columbia Nursing has clinical partnerships with more than 200 practice sites throughout New York City, and affiliations with major New York medical centers including NewYork-Presbyterian. This solid clinical training ground gives our students invaluable experiential learning, and opportunities to actively contribute to the health of individuals and communities, a critical complement to our rigorous classroom curriculum. Visit the ColumbiaDoctors Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Group website to make an appointment or learn more. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top