Skip to main content Visit Hours/Map Parking/Accessibility Docent Tours Contact Exhibitions & Publications Events Collection Search the Collection Interactive Spotlights Learn McMullen From Home Docent Tours Student Ambassadors the Terrace University/Academics Pre-K–12 About Director’s Welcome Events Endowments Contact Press Room Join Visit Martin Parr: Time and Place is now open at the McMullen. Visitors are asked to wear masks and keep physically distant. We look forward to welcoming you into the Museum! Hours/Map Monday—Friday, 10:00 am–5:00 pm, Saturday–Sunday, noon–5:00 pm The museum will be closed May 30 (Memorial Day). The McMullen Museum of Art is located at 2101 Commonwealth Avenue on the Brighton Campus of Boston College in Boston, Massachusetts. The campus is approximately six miles west of downtown Boston. For extensive directions to the campus, including downloadable campus maps, instructions on using GPS and Google, and any current updates, please visit the Boston College directions page. Driving, approaching from points west: Continue past the Museum and make a U-turn by Greycliff Road. From Boston: Follow Commonwealth Avenue to the campus entrance, right before Lake Street. Public Transportation: The Boston College branch of the MBTA's Green Line (B) ends at the Boston-Newton boundary on Commonwealth Avenue. Follow Commonwealth Avenue back to the east about 400 feet. Parking/Accessibility Monday–Friday, 10:00 am–5:00 pm, Saturday–Sunday, noon–5:00 pm: Parking is free at the McMullen. There are two wheelchair-accessible parking spots in front of the Museum. Additional visitor parking is available in front of the Museum, in the Theology and Ministry Library parking lot, and areas marked “P” on the map below. Additional one-hour parking is available, as posted, on Commonwealth Avenue. Tour groups may drop off guests directly in front of the Museum before proceeding to visitor parking. Further information on visitor parking policies and rates are available on the Boston College Department of Parking and Transportation website. The McMullen Museum is wheelchair-accessible and exhibition floors are connected by an elevator. The Museum has four transport chairs that visitors are welcome to use. McMullen Museum of Art, Boston College, 2101 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, MA 02135 Postal address: 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617.552.8587 • artmuseum@bc.edu • © 2022 the McMullen Museum of Art and the Trustees of Boston College