Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Current Students Advising Current Students Student Services and Support Learning SupportTutoringLibrariesDisability ResourcesAdult & Returning StudentsVeterans & Military StudentsCareer ServicesInternships Register for Courses Advising Course Search Deadlines Prior Learning Assessment Registration Student Success Online Course IntroSuccess StrategiesSmartStart Technology RequirementsResources Graduation Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Start planning for a better tomorrow. Advising Academic advising is a critical element of your success. During your time as a UofM Global student, you will work closely with an academic advisor to assist you in meeting goals towards your academic performance and personal development. Your academic advisor will help you: Set and achieve academic and career goals Connect to academic and career resources Help you understand degree requirements, academic policies, practices, programs and support services Assist in keeping you on track for graduation Before registering for courses, you must meet with your academic advisor. If needed, your advisor's name can be found in myMemphis under the Student tab in the Academic Advising and Planning channel. (Note: If you have recently been admitted, there is a wait period for an assignment of an advisor. Contact us at uofmglobal@memphis.edu with questions regarding the assignment of your advisor.) Degree Planning UMDegree is designed to assist students with degree planning and provides up-to-date information regarding your current academic goals, including Degree Requirements, General Education Requirements, Major Requirements (with concentration if applicable) and Minor Requirements. This valuable resource is managed by your advisor and reflects all changes to your academic record. It is also used in determining whether or not you have successfully completed all graduation requirements. Most importantly, it tells you what you still have left to take to complete your requirements and graduate. Each semester, you should review this worksheet with your academic advisor. You should also plan for future semesters and all the way to graduation using the planner tool. Visit the UMDegree Student Guide to learn more about how to track your academic progress > About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/16/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.