COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Communication Sciences and Disorders, Major MajorCommunication Sciences and Disorders All Programs College of Health Professions Communication Sciences and Disorders A Bachelor of Arts (BA) in communication sciences and disorders (CSD) from Wichita State combines classroom learning and immersion in real-world speech-language facilities, preparing you for an advanced degree—and high-paying career—in speech-language pathology or audiology. Learn how communication sciences and disorders is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the CSD bachelor's degree program, you must: Be enrolled, or admitted to, WSU Have an overall minimum GPA of 3.0 Complete all pre-admission CSD courses with a 3.0 GPA or better Admission requirements Inside the Program Baby Day provides real-life experience for health professions students Baby Day, an interprofessional event hosted by the Communication Sciences and Disorders and Physical Therapy departments, allows students to enhance their education with practical experience. The event—held in the spring—provides students, families and professionals an opportunity to gather and learn more about the development of infants and toddlers. CSD students spend the day observing and evaluating babies' reactions and verbal skills. They also learn how motor development and communication go hand in hand. Curriculum You'll start out with pre-admission courses that teach the basics, including anatomy and physiology of speech and hearing—and communication disorders. Then, once you're admitted into the CSD program, you'll progress through the core courses. The entire pre-admission and major curriculum consists of 43 credit hours. A departmental honors track is also available for this major. View the curriculum Careers A degree in communication sciences and disorders from Wichita State will put you on the path toward a high-paying, high-demand career in audiology or speech-language pathology—with employment in a wide range of settings from local schools and clinics to large health care facilities. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Communication Sciences and Disorders - Signed Languages (Minor) Linguistics (Minor) Aging Studies Psychology 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©