COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Center for International Business Advancement (CIBA) In This Section CIBA Home Programs/Events Membership World Trade Council of Wichita Media Contact Student Involvement Members Only Interested in applying for membership?Join Now! For over 45 years, the Center for International Business Advancement, in partnership with the World Trade Council of Wichita, has and will continue to provide education, to conduct research, and to promote international trade through the Midwest. World Trade Council Programs/Events Membership About Us Who We Are The Center for International Business Advancement (CIBA) and the World Trade Council of Wichita (WTCouncil) form a public-private partnership to foster work and ideals of international business education, research, practice, and outreach. Professor Usha Haley (Barton Distinguished Chair in International Business and Professor of Management) serves as CIBA Director and the WTCouncil's elected Chair. This alliance provides strategies for global competitiveness through industry-specific education, training and outreach, developed through USED and BIE grants, which along with student engagement, contribute to a highly skilled and productive workforce for a globally competitive marketplace. CIBA/World Trade Council of Wichita is a proud recipient of the two highest awards conferred by the United States for Exports - the President's "E" and "E Star" Awards. The “E” Award was created by Executive Order of the President of the United States to recognize persons, firms, or organizations that contribute significantly to efforts to increase United States exports. The “E Star” Award recognizes continued exemplary achievement in advancing United States exports. What We Do CIBA/WTCouncil hold monthly dinner programs/events on topical issues regarding international business and trade to bring together various stakeholders, including local, national, and international business leaders, government officials, and foreign diplomats. Average attendance at the monthly meetings is more than 100. These meetings provide structured opportunities for students and faculty to network with business and government leaders for collaborative research opportunities and job openings. Recent presenters include the Kansas Secretary of Commerce David Toland, Spirit Aerosystems VP Mark Suchinski, Cargill VP Pat Binger, Kansas Secretary of Agriculture Mike Beam and others. The WTCouncil also sponsors the Dharma deSilva Endowed International Business Scholarship for students. People Usha Haley, CIBA Director (https://ushahaley.academia.edu) Tel: 316-978-5500 Email: usha.haley@wichita.edu Usha Haley (PhD, Stern School of Business, New York University) is W. Frank Barton Distinguished Chair in International Business, and Professor of Management, Wichita State University. She is also Director, Center for International Business Advancement and Chair, World Trade Council of Wichita. She has over 350 publications and presentations on non-market economies, subsidies, multinational corporations, emerging markets, trade, strategy, and scholarly impact. Her research on Chinese subsidies has been incorporated into federal trade regulation in the USA, EU, Australia, and India including the Non-market Economy Trade Remedy Act (the basis of HR 1229 in the USA) and three pieces of EU anti-dumping regulation. Competitive research grants include from the National Science Foundation. See CV section (https://ushahaley.academia.edu/cv) for an extended BIO. Sherryl Hubble, Administrative Specialist, WTCouncil/CIBA Email: sherryl.hubble@wichita.edu Tel: 316-978-3176 Denis Orwaru, President, International Business Studies Association Email: dgorwaru@shockers.wichita.edu Denis Orwaru, Graduate Research Assistant- for CIBA/WTCouncil Email: dgorwaru@shockers.wichita.edu Vaishnavi Ranguraju, Graduate Research Assistant- for Dr. Haley Email: vxrangaraju@shockers.wichita.edu More Information For more information on events, registration, payments, and membership, please contact the office at wtcouncil@wichita.edu or call 316-978-3176; for more information on CIBA/WTCouncil, media requests, program sponsorship and speaking at the WTCouncil, please contact Prof. Haley directly at usha.haley@wichita.edu or 316-978-5500. You may also contact us through this form. facebook twitter linkedin instagram Copyright Notice: Sherryl Hubble, Emily Orwaru (WTCouncil logo); Usha Haley (CIBA logo) Media Learn More Programs / Events Upcoming events Recent events Calls for speakers Membership Individual Corporate Small Business Government/NGO Student World Trade Council of Wichita Founded in 1975 by Dr. Lee Nehrt, Dr. Dharma deSilva, and Dean Larry McKibbin in concert with 11 area multinational companies to promote international trade and investment in Greater Wichita and south-central Kansas. Student Involvement International Business Studies Association (IBSA) Membership 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©