More information will be posted here when it becomes available. Emergency215-573-3333 A-Z Directories Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Open menu Departments About Our Division Office of the Vice President Finance & Administration Fire & Emergency Services Penn Police Department PennComm & Emergency Communications Security Services Security Technology Special Services Emergency Preparedness PennReady UPennAlert Emergency Notification System Emergency Procedures Safety Initiatives HELP Line: 215-898-HELP Penn Guardian 24/7 Walking Escort Service DPS “Top 10 List” Penn Alternative Response Unit (AR-1) Operation Theft Awareness Self-Defense Courses Bicycle, Motor Vehicle, and Pedestrian Safety Information Clery Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Clery Crime Log CSA Crime Statistics Reporting Data Form Media Videos News and Events Photos Contact General Contact Information DPS Administration Directory Send Us Feedback Commend a Member of DPS Report a Crime Police Complaint Form Silent Witness Form Student Project Request Form Presentation Request Form Request a Special Property Check Menu Media Clery Contact Privacy Policy A-Z Directories Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Bicycle, Motor Vehicle, and Pedestrian Safety Information Tips for Bicyclists Use reflectors, reflective tape, or similar devices on cycling shoes, fenders, belts, frames, pedals and handlebars. Keep to the right. Ride with traffic, not against it. By law, a bi cycle is a vehicle and must obey traffic laws. Use hand signals to indicate turning or stopping. Ride defensively. Use bike paths or bike lanes whenever possible. Walk your bicycle across busy intersections. Never race on public space. Avoid riding in bad weather. Avoid riding on trolley tracks. Perform regular maintenance checks. Wear appropriate clothing. Park your bike in an open, well-lit, frequently traveled area. Secure it properly with recommended chains and locks. Use bicycle racks, which are strategically located on campus. DO not lock your bike onto trees or railings. Report any suspicious behavior you see around the bicycle racks. University Bicycle Policy NOTE: On public streets and campus paths, bicycles are vehicles and must comply with traffic laws. Cyclists and pedestrians share common University paths. To prevent injuries, common sense and courtesy are key. Bicycles must yield the right-of-way to pedestrians. Pedestrian traffic is especially heavy on Locust Walk. As a result, the University has instituted the following policy: Between 8:30am and 5:30pm, Monday – Friday, bike riding is prohibited on the following walkways: Locust Walk, Hamilton Walk, Women’s Walk and Smith Walk. Bicyclists are required to walk their bicycles over the Locust Walk, Walnut Street, Paley and Weave footbridges (emergency personnel exempt). Penn Bike Well Penn Bike Well Site Video on Bike Helmet Awareness by James Cracknell: A personal appeal: Use your head. Use your helmet. Tips for motorists Exercise caution when entering or leaving your car, especially in parking lots and garages. Keep windows up, doors locked, and keep your purse and other valuables in your trunk. Intersections and stoplights are common places for would-be attackers. Keep one car length between your auto and the auto in front of you. This gives you an escape route. Keep your car in gear, and if threatened, blow the horn in short repeated blasts and drive away. If you have car trouble, raise the hood and remain in the car with doors locked. If strangers stop, ask them to report your predicament to the police, but do not encourage their assistance. Never pick up hitchhikers. Never leave your auto registration, credit cards, and other important papers in the glove compartment. Use auto theft prevention tools. Do not mark your key chain with your name, address, and license number. Lost keys can lead a thief to your car. A reminder: Parking on campus is restricted. Illegally parked cars will be towed. To obtain a Pennsylvania Learner’s Permit, Operator’s License or the Pennsylvania Drivers’ Manual, contact the Licensing Bureau of the Pennsylvania State Police, 1101 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA 19107, 215-560-2398. Tips for Pedestrians Be predictable. Follow the rules of the road and obey signs and signals. Walk on sidewalks whenever they are available. Keep alert at all times. Cross streets at crosswalks or intersections whenever possible. Flyer for pedestrian safety from the Department of Transportation Navigate This Section Safety Initiatives Bicycle, Motor Vehicle, and Pedestrian Safety Information CampusExpress Property Registration DPS “Top 10 List” HELP Line: 215-898-HELP Motorist Safety Operation Theft Awareness College House & On Campus Off Campus Residential Preventing Bicycle Theft Protecting Personal Items Preventing Fraud & ID Theft Penn Guardian Frequently Asked Questions GPS Tracking Personal Profile Protecting Your Privacy Registering for Penn Guardian Self-Defense Courses Walk / Ride / Drive SMART Emergencies 215.573.3333 General Information 215.898.7297 Campus Phones 511 4040 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 Latest Tweets The daily crime log for the Penn Patrol Zone is always available on our website: ow.ly/9uqm50wydj0 and for re… twitter.com/i/web/status/15319… About 6 hours ago Quicklinks Emergency Preparedness 24/7 Walking Escort Theft Awareness RAD Self Defense Courses Penn Guardian UPennAlert Explore Departments Emergency Preparedness University of Pennsylvania Police Department (UPPD) Information and Statistics Safety Initiatives Report Accessibility Issues & Get Help Media Clery Contact Privacy Policy Connect with DPS Receive DPS Traffic Advisories Learn About Penn Guardian © 2016 The University of Pennsylvania. 4040 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 215.898.7297 | Contact Us Rotate Your Phone to Portrait Mode Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset