COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW W. Frank Barton School of Business Section Menu Barton School Home Office of the Dean About the Barton School Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Centers, Institutes and Labs Faculty/Staff Resources Current Student Resources Events Contact Us Directory Faculty In the News Virtual Information Sessions Alumni Council Honor Roll Leadership Team Woolsey Hall The Dean's Honor Roll Honor Roll Spring 2022 Honor Roll Spring 2021 Honor Roll Summer 2021 Stop Video Learn more about Barton School degreesRequest info The W. Frank Barton School of Business is home to some of the best programs, brightest minds and biggest opportunities in Kansas. From the largest selection of AACSB-accredited programs in the state to the limitless opportunities for applied learning in Kansas' business hub, Barton School students have everything they need for career success. Apply now Virtual Info Sessions for Prospective Students The Barton School of Business has launched a new series of virtual introductory seminars for students considering Wichita State. Zoom in to hear about our programs, majors, and the brand-new business building! See the schedule More choices for your career path The Barton School offers more undergraduate business degrees than you'll find anywhere else in Kansas—including the state's only entrepreneurship major. Barton School undergraduate degrees Barton School graduate degrees Online business programs Quality plus value Full AACSB Accreditation The Barton School of Business is accredited through AACSB International in both business and accounting. Fewer than 1% of business schools worldwide hold this double accreditation. Advising Academic Advising at Wichita State University is a personalized way to explore options and make good decisions that help you attain your educational and career goals. Scholarships Each year, the Barton School awards over $800,000 in scholarships, including the prestigious $50,000 Clay Barton Scholarship and two $30,000 Fran Jabara entrepreneurship scholarships. Global experience and professional skills Barton School students have access to a range of enhancement programs and student groups that give Wichita State graduates a competitive edge in the marketplace. Travel the globe, build professional work habits and skills and make personal connections that will last a lifetime. Study Abroad Barton School students have access to connections where they can gain an international perspective while earning credit toward their business degree in countries like Austria, Germany, China and others. Barton International Group The Barton International Group (BIG) gives students the chance to create innovative business strategies for real companies at home and abroad—from Silicon Valley to Taiwan. Professional Edge The Professional Edge program helps you build skills and competencies designed to position you for enhanced placement opportunities and career success right out of the gate. Widener-GLP The Widener Global Leaders Program develops diverse global leaders with cultural acuity, business capabilities and commitment to helping others through multidisciplinary experiences. Departments School of Accountancy Department of Economics Department of Finance, Real Estate and Decision Sciences Department of Management Department of Marketing Faculty In the News All Stories Masud Chand shares expertise on credit card rates Usha Haley Quoted in Fortune on Economic Forecasting Stan Longhofer releases the 2020 Wichita Housing Forecast Dorothy Harpool offers her expert advice on credit cards A brand new home The Barton School has broken ground on Woolsey Hall — a brand new, $60 million facility under construction on WSU's Innovation Campus, providing even more opportunities and technology for students, faculty and industry to learn, research and work together. Learn more about our new building Woolsey Hall Construction cam Follow Us on Social Media Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Current Student Resources We value our business students and we want to provide resources and information to help ensure your success, so we have gathered the links and compiled the most-used information into one convenient place. Current Students Resources page 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©