Skip to main content Skip to main content My Account My Account Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Libraries Find & Borrow Research & Teaching Locations & Collections Visit SMU Libraries About Get Help Find & Borrow Find Books Journals & Newspapers Articles Films Music Scores & Recordings Borrow & Request Checkout & Renew Interlibrary Loan Request a Purchase Guest Services Alumni Services Research Card Research & Teaching Scholarship & Publishing GIS@SMU SMU Scholar Research Data Digital Scholarship Scholarly Impact & Publishing Copyright Teaching Support Library Materials for Courses Classroom Instruction Assignment Design Online Guides & Tutorials Locations & Collections Libraries Bridwell Library Business Library DeGolyer Library Fondren Library Hamon Arts Library Underwood Law Library Fort Burgwin Library Exhibits & Digital Collections Campus Exhibits Online Exhibits Digital Collections Special Collections & Archives Visit Visit Hours Maps & Parking Technology & Printing Policies Accessibility Spaces Places to Study Graduate Student Spaces Lockers Class & Event Spaces About About Us Staff Directory Dean's Office Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Accessibility Faculty & Student Awards Join Us Staff & Student Employment Internships Student Advisory Board Friends of SMU Libraries Connect with Us News Events Social Media Contact Us Get Help Ask Us (email, chat, text, call) Research Guides by Discipline How Do I . . . ? Guides Find Your Librarian Attend Workshops Writing Support ☰ Libraries Exhibits & Digital Collections Campus Exhibits Campus Exhibits The 9th Helen Warren DeGolyer Competition for American Bookbinding May 19 - July 15 The Elizabeth Perkins Prothro Galleries, Bridwell Library Book Artist: James Reid-Cunningham, 2022. Send Me a Postcard! Women on the Road across 19th-20th Century America April 28 - August 31 Hillcrest Exhibit Hall, Fondren Library Gray 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m., M- F In Search of Belonging Through May 23 First Floor Reading Room, Hamon Arts Library Pictured: Kennedi Watts '22. Photo by Ash Thye '23. Exhibit Spaces Elizabeth Perkins Prothro Galleries | Hawn Gallery | Hillcrest Foundation Exhibit Hall The Elizabeth Perkins Prothro Galleries The Elizabeth Perkins Prothro Galleries have served as the major showcase for Bridwell Library Special Collections since 1990.Charles N. Prothro (1918-2001) funded the galleries in honor of his wife Elizabeth Perkins Prothro (1919-2009) and their fiftieth wedding anniversary. Reflecting Bridwell Library’s strengths and active collecting interests, the galleries were designed for books and documents to be displayed in an environmentally sound and secure space. Exhibitions often feature recent acquisitions. Exhibitions are free and open to the public. Location & Hours Galleries are located on the first floor of Bridwell Library. The Galleries are open during regular library hours. Hawn Gallery Mildred J. Hawn Gallery exhibitions center on academic areas represented in the library’s collections and the curricula of the visual and performing arts in the Meadows School of the Arts. In addition to exhibitions of their work, visiting artists may give talks and present workshops to university students and faculty, thus enriching the university community experience. SMU Libraries and the Hawn Gallery seek to advance diversity, equity, and inclusion in its programming, staffing, collections, and resources. Exhibitions are free and open to the public. Instagram | Facebook Location & Hours The Hawn Gallery is located inside the Hamon Arts Library, inside the Owen Arts Center. The Gallery is open during regular library hours. Hillcrest Foundation Exhibit Hall The Hillcrest Foundation Exhibit Hall is the premier exhibition space for DeGolyer Library and SMU’s University Archives. Dedicated in 2016, Hillcrest exhibitions are free and open to the public. Location & Hours Hillcrest Exhibit Hall is located on the second floor of Fondren Library Gray, across from the Fondren Foundation Centennial Reading Room. Open 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, Monday through Friday. Exhibits & Digital Collections Campus Exhibits Digital Collections Related Maps & Directions Special Collections Maps & Directions | Contact Us | Feedback Accessibility | Legal Disclosures © SMU Libraries, PO Box 750135, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share