Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Graduate Student Government Grad Student Government right arrow down arrow About us right arrow down arrow GSG Executive Board GSG Constitution right arrow down arrow GSG Bylaws GSG Member Groups List Awards right arrow down arrow Group Budget Awards Group & Community Grant Awards Conference Awards GSG Excellence Awards right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Risk Management Awareness Award GSG Research Fellowship Awards Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Talk to Us Programs right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Orientation and Welcome right arrow down arrow GSA Officer Orientation Home » Campus Life » Graduate Student Government » Awards » Group Budget Awards Set Navigation title in component Group Budget Awards Group & Community Grant Awards Conference Awards GSG Excellence Awards Graduate Student Risk Management Awareness Award GSG Research Fellowship Awards Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Group Budget Awards Group Budget Awards are offered to Graduate Student Associations (GSA) registered under the GSG and are to be used for events or purchases that a GSA deems necessary for community building amongst its constituent graduate students. Every GSA is entitled to a fixed amount each year, based on their student enrollment. The GSG Vice-president is in charge of allocating this amount to each of the groups, as well as notifying each group of their funding amounts. There is no pre-approval required to use these awards. Groups can use their budget award in a single amount or as several smaller amounts throughout the GSG fiscal year. General Guidelines Please read ALL of these rules before planning an event. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, all students must follow the SALD return to campus guidelines. No computers / technology items / alcohol purchases can be reimbursed. It is recommended to check with the GSG Vice-President or Treasurer when planning a purchase. If you are making a Group Budget related purchase through Classic Fare Catering, GSG can pay for the for the same directly. Contact the GSG Treasurer atleast 3 weeks before placing your order. Kindly note that the GSG does not reimburse sales tax on transactions (such as Kroger, restaurants, pizza outlets, etc.) for Group Budget awards. Kindly present UC's tax exemption certificate to the customer representative while making the transaction. Please note that for purchases made online, vendors (such as Amazon, Staples, etc.) do accept sales tax certificate and not charge tax on transactions. When multiple people have paid for items required for an event, each payee must submit their own envelope with the below materials. Late submissions will be rejected. NO exceptions Reimbursement Procedure After the event/purchase, each individual who paid for any item(s) must complete a CampusLink Group Budget Award Application including the following: An online A114 envelope All original itemized receipts, including the method of payment (cash, credit, check). A list of attendees. Credit card/debit card transaction highlighting your name on the account with the last four digits of the card used for the transaction to be reimbursed. You’re encouraged to black out the parts which you do not want to share on the statement. The application must be submitted within 14 days of event Graduate Student Government 683 Steger Student Life Center University of Cincinnati PO Box 210193 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6101 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate Student Government 683 Steger Student Life Center University of Cincinnati PO Box 210193 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6101 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top