Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Clinics Federal Tax Clinic Federal Tax Clinic Location The Tax Clinic is located on the SMU campus at the southeast corner of Hillcrest and Daniel in the lower level of Storey Hall. Other Clinics The SMU Dedman School of Law also offers assistance to low income individuals in its Civil Clinic, Criminal Clinic, Child Advocacy Clinic, Small Business Clinic, Patent & Trademark Clinic and Tax Clinic. For information on these Clinics you can call 214-768-2562. About the Tax Clinic Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law has been operating a Federal Taxpayers Clinic since January 1977. The Tax Clinic offers representation to low-income taxpayers who have federal income tax disputes with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). In certain cases, the Tax Clinic also represents taxpayers before the United States Tax Court. The Tax Clinic is staffed by law students who are trained in tax law and supervised by Larry Jones, a full-time practicing tax attorney. Becoming a Client The Tax Clinic offers representation to taxpayers who cannot otherwise afford representation and to taxpayers in cases where the fee to be charged by a tax practitioner is expected to equal or exceed the amount of tax in controversy. In order to determine whether a taxpayer qualifies for representation, a free one-hour consultation with student attorneys is offered to prospective clients. Free consultations are offered to taxpayers who: Owe taxes to the IRS; Have been advised that they are going to be audited by the IRS; Have received a letter from the IRS proposing a deficiency as the result of an audit; or Have had a levy or tax lien filed against them by the IRS. Several factors are considered when deciding to accept a client, including the individual’s financial situation, the educational value of the controversy, and the workload of the Tax Clinic. The Tax Clinic does not provide any legal advice to individuals until they are accepted as clients. Guidelines for Screening Cases The Tax Clinic is operated by law students under the supervision of a praticing attorney admitted to practice before the United States Tax Court. It is the policy of the Tax Clinic to serve persons who financially and otherwise cannot obtain suitable representation. The case of each person who applies to the Tax Clinic for assistance is considered individually. The Tax Clinic represents taxpayers who have controversies with the IRS and who have filed a petition in the United States Tax Court or anticipate filing a petition. While the Tax Clinic does not have any set financial guidelines, we are cautious not to represent clients who can afford legal representation. The Tax Clinic considers the following in determining whether to accept a person applying for assistance: Current and future income and expenses of the person applying. Number of members of the applicant’s family. The nature and complexity of the issues involved. Whether the Tax Clinic has the expertise and/or time to handle the case. The economic effect on the client. Whether the client has the ability to represent himself/herself or obtain suitable paid representation. Whether the client lives within a 100 mile radius of Dallas, Texas. Whether the client is committed to assisting the Tax Clinic in resolving the case. Services Offered to Clients The Tax Clinic and its student attorneys assist with: Offers-in-Compromise Installment Agreements Audit Reconsideration Requests Innocent Spouse relief Protest letters Collection Due Process hearings IRS Appeals conferences Settlement negotiations Federal tax liens U.S. Tax Court Representation before the U.S. Tax Court Cost of Representation If accepted for representation, clients are charged a $25.00 administrative fee and are responsible for any court filing fees incurred on their behalf. Educational Value Law students participating in the Tax Clinic learn that the practice of law demands tremendous dedication to both the law and the pursuit of their client’s best interests. These students are provided the opportunity to handle all aspects of controversies with the IRS, including interviewing clients, preparing cases for appeals conferences and appearing at the conferences themselves, preparing offers-in-compromise, filing petitions with the United States Tax Court, negotiating settlements with the IRS, and occasionally appearing before the Tax Court. The Tax Clinic not only gives students significant attorney/client experience but also fulfills the need of taxpayers to free and competent legal representation. Contacting the Tax Clinic Taxpayers and other individuals interested in obtaining information about the Tax Clinic’s services or in scheduling an initial consultation with student attorneys should call 214-768-8299. The Tax Clinic is open from 8:30 a.m. until 5:00 p.m., Monday – Friday, and is located in the lower level of Storey Hall on the SMU campus at 3315 Daniel, Dallas, Texas. Contact Information Faculty and Staff Gregory Mitchell '94 Adjunct Clinical Professor of Law, Federal Tax Clinic Gloria Zapata Administrative Assistant Criminal Justice, Innocence, Patent, Small Business, Tax, and Trademark Clinics Mailing Address SMU Dedman School of Law P.O. Box 750116 Dallas, TX 75275-0116 Physical Address SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Suite 30 Dallas, TX 75205 Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business Clinic and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Resources for the Public For Students Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram