Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Parents Alumni News/Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Search Navigate Search Social SMU About Administration Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs SMU Facts SMU Facts Campus profile Academic offerings Administration Prominent alumni Intercollegiate athletics Location and facilities Student life Undergraduate costs Maps and directions Maps and directions Campus Map Directions to SMU Parking at SMU Download and print maps Building addresses Accessibility SMU-in-Taos Strategic Plan Contact SMU Administration About SMU / Administration / Rick Hart Rick Hart Rick Hart was named SMU’s Director of Athletics on July 16, 2012. He developed and installed the Strategic Plan for SMU Athletics, “The SMU Advantage,” comprising a departmental vision, mission, values and goals that focus on a principle of S.P.I.R.I.T. (Service, Passion, Integrity, Respect, Innovation and Teamwork). During Hart’s tenure on the Hilltop, SMU student-athletes have excelled in the classroom. In 2016-17, 269 of SMU’s 413 student-athletes held cumulative GPAs of 3.0 or higher – over 65% of the student-athlete population. They also have excelled athletically. From 2012 to 2017, the Mustangs won 17 conference team championships and consistently finished among the leaders in the American Athletic Conference, with eight sports finishing in the top two of their respective conference in 2016-17. Eleven of SMU’s 17 teams were then represented in postseason competition. SMU student-athletes won 20 individual conference championships and earned 81 All-Conference honors last season alone. In addition, SMU teams have connected with the community. Mustang student-athletes logged more than 2,000 community service hours in the 2016-17 academic year, exceeding the equivalent of an entire year’s worth of work. The community has responded to SMU as well, increasing attendance at events and donations to the department. During Hart’s tenure, SMU has renovated and expanded Moody Coliseum and opened the Miller Event Center, SMU Tennis Complex, Robson & Lindley Aquatics Center and Barr-McMillion Natatorium, and the Payne Stewart SMU Golf Training Center at Trinity Forest Golf Club, home of the AT&T Byron Nelson. SMU has also broken ground on the SMU Indoor Performance Center. Hart has served on the NACDA Executive Committee, the NCAA Division I Championship/Sports Management Cabinet, the FCS Athletics Directors Association Executive Committee and as a faculty member for the D1-A Athletics Directors' Institute. He is an active speaker and has made presentations at the Career in Sports Seminar, the NACDA Leadership Institute, the Texas High School Athletic Directors’ Association and the Dallas Women’s Club, among others. Hart came to SMU after six years as Director of Athletics at the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga. He served seven years at the University of Oklahoma in various athletics administrative capacities, ending as Senior Associate Athletics Director in 2006. He has also worked in athletics for the University of North Carolina and East Carolina University and has served with the U.S. Olympic Committee. A 1994 graduate of UNC, Hart earned a bachelor’s degree in Physical Education, Health and Sport Science. Hart and his wife, Allison, also a graduate of North Carolina, are the proud parents of Trevor and Caroline. Hart is a third-generation athletics administrator. His father, Dave, served as Director of Athletics at the University of Tennessee, and his late grandfather, Dave Sr., served in a variety of roles within collegiate athletics, including a stint as the Commissioner of the Southern Conference from 1987-91. Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Harassment Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact SMU Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 SMU Twitter SMU Facebook SMU Instagram SMU Linked In SMU YouTube Social Media Directory"