Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Germany Home Connect Chapters International Germany International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore The Germany Chapter of Boston College welcomes alumni, parents and friends from Germany. Whether you are planning on visiting Berlin, have lived here for years, or are a new expatriate, all are encouraged to participate in the chapter’s events! We have Eagles living throughout Europe and are always seeking new volunteers to enrich and strengthen the regional chapter and it’s goals. 197 Alumni Parents & Friends social leaders contact us events Follow Us Germany Chapter Facebook Group Germany Chapter Instagram Page Germany Chapter LinkedIn Page Germany Chapter Email Meet Your Chapter Leaders Hannah Weisenberg '18 Lives in: Lich, Germany Major: Biology Occupation: PhD Candidate in Environmental Toxicology Favorite BC Memory: Sitting at the Chocolate Bar with friends, studying for hours and drinking coffee, and always having people I knew walk by and say hi! Why I got involved: Moving to a new country, I wanted to find people with similar backgrounds and interests. When I saw there was no current chapter, I thought it would be a great opportunity to keep international BC support up and even network. I also know many young professionals who move around the world and thought this would be a good way to help BC alums feel connected to each other and the University. What are your local favorites in your city?: I live a little outside of Frankfurt, but I do love the sushi restaurant Sakura. I'm a sushi-holic so it was nice to find good tuna outside of the US. I also enjoy walking through the woods near my village and just enjoying the wildlife. Fun Fact: I am scuba certified even though I am very afraid of the ocean, and I've been to over 50 concerts! Caitlin Arnould '08 Lives in: Berlin, Germany Major: English / German Studies Occupation: Podcast Host / Key Account Manager Favorite BC Memory: I had some amazing professors. The course I took on classics of Russian literature was my favorite part of my BC experience. I will also never forget the way the sun looks as it sets across the campus, always a beautiful sight. Why did you get involved in your local chapter?: I would love to help connect BC alumni from around Germany and to grow a community here. What are your local favorites in your city?: I am a member at Berlin Soho House, so you will often find me there in the gym or on the rooftop. I also love Kollwitzplatz and getting coffee at Betty and Katy. My favorite place for ice cream is Süsse Sünde. Fun Fact: I know the lyrics to more German songs than most Germans know. Especially Karneval songs—I can sing the lyrics to entire songs by heart, also many Schläger songs and even some German rap songs. My German fiancé takes special pride in telling other Germans I know the lyrics to every Karneval song. I also have a terrible voice, so it makes it even funnier. Alumni Staff Liaison Name: Katie Foley Contact: foleyby@bc.edu Events ENGAGE WITH US ON EAGLE EXCHANGE! STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Search by location to connect with local Eagles! Join Today Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok