SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu A diverse community of world-changers, thriving in the global city that primes us to compete. Small-school feel, world-class campus An intimate, private-school setting. Renowned professors with open doors. Ambitious peers who sharpen your edge. Situated on a tree-lined campus that’s just minutes from the beating heart of Dallas, SMU Cox is a powerful ally for your future. You’ll kindle relationships through dozens of student clubs, speaker series, and mentoring programs — all designed to connect you with the best business minds around the globe. Grounded in a close-knit campus, Cox opens the door to boundless prospects. The best thing about the SMU Cox classroom is the small class size. We got to know each other and our professors very well. Garima Singh MSM 2017 Explore our Programs A global alumni community Gain unrivaled access to an alumni network that spans more than 80 countries. As part of the Cox community, you can count on savvy professional advice, networking opportunities and social connections that open doors around the world. As soon as you earn your business degree, you automatically become a lifetime member of the dues-free SMU Cox Alumni Association. The Economist magazine ranks Cox No. 1 in the United States and No. 28 in the world for networking potential. I know that no matter where I go, or what company I work for, there will always be an SMU Pony there who will be an immediate friend and/or helping hand. Jennifer Kesterson MBA 2015 Meet Our Alums Committed to Diversity The most vibrant—and profitable—businesses are the ones with the most diverse teams. The same goes for SMU Cox, where we know that a diverse community drives the best education. In pursuit of excellence, we actively recruit and support under-represented students with programs such as the Native American Initiative and the Latino Leadership Initiative. We also nurture relationships with groups such as National Black MBA Association, National Society of Hispanic MBAs, and Reaching Out. SMU Cox not only provided me with a world‐class education, but more importantly the leadership skills and confidence to start a career in a stereotypically male‐dominated field and succeed. Sarah Caldwell MBA 2018 See Our Diversity Initiatives How We Rank Long regarded as a top U.S. business school, the Cox School is growing in international stature. Business-minded publications around the globe are taking note--and we've got the numbers to prove it. See how Cox ranks for educational excellence, post-graduate salaries, professional networking opportunities and more. Full-Time MBA No. 7 in the world for faculty quality — The Economist No 16 in the world for networking opportunities —The Economist Learn More Executive MBA No. 3 in the world — Bloomberg Businessweek Learn more Professional MBA No. 7 in the U.S. — Bloomberg Businessweek Learn more Bachelor's in Business Administration No. 5 in the U.S. for post-graduation salaries — Bloomberg Businessweek Learn more Master of Science in Management No. 1 for faculty-student ratio — The Economist No. 6 overall in the U.S. — The Economist Learn more Real Estate Department No. 2 for highest-paid graduates in the U.S. — USA Today College Factual No. 5 overall in the U.S. for business schools that offer real estate education — USA Today College Factual Learn more The Dallas Metro Area No. 1 Best Big City for Jobs — Forbes, 2017 No. 4 among "the 10 U.S. cities that are growing fast, offering jobs, and presenting business opportunities” — Business Insider, 2018 Learn more The Dallas Advantage Dallas is booming. The DFW metro area has been named the No. 1 fastest growing city in the U.S. and the No. 1 metro area for jobs both with the area's dozens of Fortune 500 firms and in the burgeoning start-up scene. As one of the top 30 most exciting food cities in the country, it's also an awesome place to live. See the Dallas Advantage SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter