COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Business Analytics, Master's Master'sBusiness Analytics All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Finance, Real Estate and Decision Sciences The Master of Science in Business Analytics, from Wichita State's AACSB-accredited Barton School of Business, applies hands-on activities and industry practices, giving you a solid foundation in using data to inform business decisions and forecast future performance. The program offers two tracks: management and data science. Learn how business analytics is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the program, applicants must: Be admitted to the WSU Graduate School Have a minimum 3.0 GPA in the last 60 credit hours of coursework. Students with a GPA lower than 3.0 may apply with a GER or GMAT scores for consideration. Submit a personal statement Submit a professional resume Meet the minimum TOEFL and IELTS requirements (for international applicants) For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program New facility for the National Institute for Research and Digital Transformation Wichita State University is moving forward on a facility to house the National Institute for Research and Digital Transformation (NIRDT) as part of WSU's Convergence Sciences initiative. Research and partnerships created in the facility will be focused around the convergence of faculty and students from many different WSU departments across the university for the sole purpose of developing research in a broad range of economic sectors, including the high-tech sectors, health sector, manufacturing, defense and logistics while supporting the aviation and aerospace industries. Curriculum The degree offers you two track options: management and data science. The management track focuses on developing capabilities in leading analytics initiatives. The data science track focuses on the use of innovative tools and techniques in data analytics. Courses are a mix of 16-week classes and eight-week hybrid classes. While taking the eight-week hybrids, you'll attend class once a week and also complete work online. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree in business analytics from Wichita State's Barton School will help you take the next step in your career—while opening doors to new possibilities. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Data Science (Master's) Mathematical Foundations of Data Analysis (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©