Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Business Administration DBA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Business Administration DBA Apply Events Request More Info Business Administration DBA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Doctor of Business Administration The Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) in Temple’s Fox School of Business is designed to provide executive-level professionals with the applied research theories and tools necessary to keep up with the evolutionary nature of industry, and continue to advance in their companies and respective fields. Those who choose to pursue a Doctor of Business Administration are driven by a desire to ignite real change in their companies or fields through data-driven decision-making. Fox’s accredited and rigorous program provides business professionals with the power to transform today’s business environment through academically rigorous and practice-focused business research. The DBA curriculum uses applied theory and extensive data-driven research to educate students on methods of advanced critical reasoning to solve the complex challenges facing today’s businesses. In addition to translatable decision-making and problem-solving skills and managerial techniques, the program provides hands-on industry experiences and examples, as well as valuable alumni connections and networking opportunities. Find out more about the current Business Administration DBA cohort. Request Information Learn more about the Business Administration DBA program. Request Information Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Apply Now What sets the Fox DBA apart? The Fox School of Business's collaborative, cohort-style environment provides ample opportunity to work directly with other students, as well as experienced faculty who are highly awarded and frequently published in their fields; serve on regional and national organizational boards and have consulted for large corporations; and represent an overall wealth of knowledge and experience in executive-level business administration. The school’s personalized mentorship program is available to help navigate academic, research and professional processes, and Fox’s state-of-the-art research centers and institutes provide the support and resources needed to tackle some of the most complex questions facing the business world today. The three-year, part-time executive DBA program is conveniently delivered through six on-site weekend residences per year (Friday through Sunday) for the first two years, with additional online components. Classes are offered in-person at Convene Commerce Square, Temple's convenient Center City location, affording students the benefits that come with an urban university, including public transportation, proximity to regionally based corporations, national conferences and ample opportunities to engage in professional events. Finally, students leave the program well-prepared to advance as executives, consultants and researchers, possessing the valuable experience and confidence that comes with a Temple education. Deciding Between the DBA and PhD The Doctor of Business Administration differs from the Business Administration PhD program in several key ways. The DBA is an executive-level program designed for working professionals with extensive managerial experience—usually 10 to 15 years—as well as an MBA or equivalent master’s degree, who are looking to advance further in their career and respective fields. DBA students investigate applied research problems, and their work usually addresses issues within their current professional organization or field. The DBA can be completed in three years on a part-time basis, whereas the average PhD program takes five years to complete on a full-time basis. The PhD program is targeted toward those interested in pursuing research-focused careers in academia. Students in the PhD program focus on broad, theoretical issues and questions relating to business. Learn more about the differences between a DBA and PhD. Classes & Curriculum The DBA curriculum includes coursework and hands-on field experience, with the aim of providing professionals with new insights into their own business. Students will also be required to complete a dissertation. Courses available include the following. Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the New Economy Integrative Perspectives on Business Knowledge Navigating the Global Marketplace Understanding the Firm through Management and Organizational Theory Learn more about Doctor of Business Administration program courses. Related Graduate Degrees Actuarial Science MS Business Administration MBA Business Administration PhD Business Analytics MS Decision Neuroscience PhD Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security MS Marketing MS Statistics MS Statistics PhD Related Graduate Certificates Business Analytics Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization Healthcare Innovation Management Innovation Strategy Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Business Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $2,300.00 per credit Out-of-state: $2,300.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Any alumnus of Temple University will receive a 5% scholarship. Program Contact Barry Griffiths is the senior associate director of admissions for the Doctor of Business Administration program at Temple University. Phone: 215-204-3960 Email: barry.griffiths@temple.edu Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-BA-DBA Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Business Administration DBA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info