Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close About Harvard Harvard is at the frontier of academic and intellectual discovery. Those who venture here—to learn, research, teach, work, and grow—join nearly four centuries of students and scholars in the pursuit of truth, knowledge, and a better world. About Harvard History of Harvard Timeline Nobel Laureates Harvard’s Laureates in Economic Science Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Chemistry Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Literature Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Medicine Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Peace Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Physics History of honorary degrees Harvard Shields Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World Leadership and Governance Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers Endowment About Harvard History of Harvard Timeline Nobel Laureates Harvard’s Laureates in Economic Science Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Chemistry Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Literature Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Medicine Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Peace Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Physics History of honorary degrees Harvard Shields Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World Leadership and Governance Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers Endowment More Higher education, higher purpose As a research university and nonprofit institution, Harvard is focused on creating educational opportunities for people from many lived experiences. Learn about our history Harvard at a glance 1636 the year that Harvard University was established. 35,276 students study at Harvard. $2.5 billion in grant aid distributed to undergrads since Harvard Financial Aid Initiative was launched in 2004. 400k+ alumni worldwide. Meet our President Lawrence S. Bacow is the 29th President of Harvard University. He is one of the most experienced leaders in American higher education, known for his commitment to expanding student opportunity, advancing academic innovation, and encouraging universities’ civic engagement and service to society. Meet Larry Academic offerings for many kinds of learners Harvard has 12 degree-granting Schools and the Harvard Radcliffe Institute. We also offer countless non-degree opportunities for professional and lifelong learners, including executive education, continuing education, and online courses. Learn more about academics at Harvard A culture where everyone can thrive We are focused on creating a vibrant community of belonging that pursues diversity, builds inclusion, and creates more equitable opportunities for learning. Learn more about our commitment to inclusion and belonging Harvard is shaped and strengthened by our many communities. Global perspective We welcome students and scholars—wherever they might come from—and empower members of our community to pursue their academic interests. Learn about Harvard’s global engagement Local commitment Harvard is committed to giving back to the places we call home. Learn about our local partnerships People committed to public purpose Harvard students, alumni, faculty, and staff are committed to making a difference in their communities. Explore the To Serve Better project Sarah Lockridge-Steckel Harvard College alum Sarah Lockridge-Steckel is co-founder and CEO of a nonprofit that provides pathways to opportunities for young adults. Read Sarah’s story Brickson Diamond HBS alum Brickson Diamond co-founded the Blackhouse Foundation to educate and promote African American writers, producers, directors, and executives. Read Brickson’s story Marnie Gelbart Marnie Gelbart leads the Personal Genetics Education Project at HMS, working on the ethical, legal, and social implications of genetics. Read Marnie’s story How Harvard is funded Harvard’s research, scholarship, and educational opportunities are made possible by an endowment. Our endowment includes thousands of philanthropic gifts donated since Harvard’s early history, many of which were given to support specific aspects of the University’s work. These gifts form a permanent source of funding that connects scholars and learners from many diverse backgrounds with opportunities at Harvard, now and into the future. Learn more about Harvard’s endowment News from the Harvard Gazette The Harvard Gazette is the official news website for Harvard University. It covers campus life and times, University issues and policies, innovations in science, teaching, and learning, and broader national and global concerns. More news from the Harvard Gazette Walter Willett looks at what’s healthy for you and the planet Harvard scientists discover how jellyfish know when to sting Divinity School’s Swartz Hall brings inclusivity and collaboration With the renovation of Swartz Hall, Harvard Divinity School can offer multifaith space, improved accessibility, and updated classroom technology. Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Harvard awards seven honorary degrees Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers, six to HAA Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00