Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Carroll School of Management Carroll School Search BC.edu Links Finance Conference Menu Main Nav Finance Conference Finance Conference Back Back Close About the Finance Conference Event Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Carroll School Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The 15th Annual Finance Conference On Friday May 6, the Boston College Carroll School of Management will host its 15th annual Finance Conference, featuring a Nobel Prize winner in economics and a former U.S. defense secretary, among other prominent speakers. The daylong conference will return to the in-person format after two years during which the Carroll School held webinars in place of the high-profile gathering on the Chestnut Hill Campus of Boston College. In addition to morning and afternoon keynotes, the conference will also offer sessions that examine the shifting climate for investors and how inflation might alter economic prospects for the remainder of this year. Kicking off the discussions on the morning of May 6 will be Paul Romer, who was awarded the 2018 Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences “for integrating technological innovations into long-run macroeconomic analysis,” in the words of the Nobel committee. Romer is the primary developer of the so-called “New Growth Theory,” which highlights the role of ideas and human capital in bringing about economic growth. Delivering the afternoon keynote will be former U.S. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter (2015-2017). An expert in the field of nuclear proliferation and disarmament, Carter will be sharing his geopolitical insights at a time when international attention is likely to remain fixed on the Russia-Ukraine crisis. Other presenters will include Christina Romer, former chair of the Council of Economic Advisors; Richard Bernstein, of Richard Bernstein Advisors; and Simcha Barkai, finance professor at the Carroll School. Each year, the Boston College Finance Conference brings together leading policy makers, academics and practitioners for lively discussions on topics related to finance and the financial services industry. Past speakers have included former U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers; Fidelity’s Peter Lynch; former Governor Jeb Bush of Florida; Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President Robert Steven Kaplan; and Niall Ferguson, acclaimed author and history professor at Harvard University. Registration includes access to the conference as well as to receptions held the night before and at the end of the conference. All alumni, parents, and friends are invited—and all sessions and events are free of charge. Dress is business casual. Parking is available at reduced rates for attendees, who will receive a discount code along with their name tag at the conference. The two meeting venues (Fulton Hall and Yawkey Athletics Center) can be found on this map. Registration for the 2022 Finance Conference has reached capacity. To get on the waiting list, please send an email to finance.conference@bc.edu. For those who have already registered: please let us know by email if you no longer expect to attend the conference, so we can make the slot available for someone else. The 2022 Finance Conference Schedule Thursday, May 5, 2022 Boston College, 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Fulton Hall 215, Honors Library, Chestnut Hill, MA 5:00-7:30 PM Cocktail Reception Friday, May 6, 2022 Boston College, Robert J. Murray ’62 and Family Function Room, 4th Floor, Yawkey Athletics Center, Chestnut Hill, MA 7:30 AM Continental Breakfast for All Attendees 8:30 AM Welcoming Remarks Andy Boynton ’78, P’13, John and Linda Powers Family Dean, Carroll School of Management, Boston College 8:40 AM Sustaining Growth AND Stopping Climate Change: The Dorothy Margaret Rose Knight Economic Keynote Discussion Paul Romer, recipient of the 2018 Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences 9:45 AM Coffee Break 10:00 AM Should We Be Worried About a Lack of Competition? Simcha Barkai, Assistant Professor of Finance at Boston College Carroll School of Management 11:00 AM Coffee Break 11:15 AM A New Investment Paradigm Requires a New Portfolio Strategy Richard Bernstein, Chief Executive Officer/Chief Investment Officer of Richard Bernstein Advisors LLC. Moderator: Andy Boynton ’78, P’13, John and Linda Powers Family Dean, Carroll School of Management, Boston College 12:15 PM Lunch 1:15 PM Geopolitical Forecast: Asia, Russia, and Global Hotspots Keynote Discussion Ash Carter, U.S. Secretary of Defense (2015-2017) Moderator: Daniel E. Holland III ’79, P’07, ’08, Managing Director, Private Wealth Management, Goldman Sachs 2:15 PM Break 2:30 PM The Economic Outlook: Challenges for Monetary Policy Christina Romer, Chair, Council of Economic Advisers (2009-2010), Professor of Economics, University of California, Berkeley, and Contributing Editor, Bloomberg News Moderator: Philip Strahan, Professor of Finance, John L. Collins, S.J. Chair, Carroll School of Management 3:30 PM Closing Remarks Andy Boynton '78, P'13, John and Linda Powers Dean, Boston College Carroll School of Management 3:40 PM Cocktail Reception 5:00 PM Program Ends Finance Conference Co-Chairs Marc Seidner ’88 CIO, Non-traditional Strategies PIMCO Daniel E. Holland III ’79, P’07, ’08 Managing Director Private Wealth Management, Goldman Sachs & Co. Jonathan Reuter Associate Professor of Finance Carroll School of Management Andy Boynton ’78, P’13 John and Linda Powers Family Dean Carroll School of Management Boston College News Strong Results for Carroll School in Latest U.S. News Rankings Carroll School continues to stand among the most highly ranked business schools, with three departments in the top 20 Navigating Financial Turbulence in Challenging Times Three live webinars navigate the global landscape, the retirement crisis, and market turbulence Two Coveted Finance Awards, Two Years Running In a remarkable streak, Carroll School faculty have walked off with six of these prestigious awards in the past six years Back To Top Back To Top Finance Conference Fulton Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-9193 finance.conference@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College