Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Public and Nonprofit Administration Undergraduate Graduate People Giving IPNL Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact People Core Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Take Action Master of Public Administration Master of Nonprofit Management Graduate Certificates Explore SUAPP Follow Us Online Facebook Home PADM People Ms. Candace McRae Walsh Ms. Candace McRae Walsh Instructor Institute for Nonprofit Philanthropy and Leadership Phone 901.678.4395 Email cmwalsh1@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2981 Office 233 Browning Hall Office Hours By Appointment Candace McRae Walsh is an Instructor of Public Administration and Nonprofit Management at the University of Memphis. Additionally, she directs the nonprofit certificate program within the UofM's Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration, and serves as the coordinator of the UofM's Nonprofit Leadership Collaborative. Before coming to the University of Memphis, Ms. Walsh was an adjunct instructor of American Government at Mid-South Community College and co-owner/principal consultant with Magnolia Blue, LLC, a Memphis-based consulting firm specializing in strategic planning and mediation for small businesses and non-profit organizations. She has more than 25 years of experience in the fields of journalism, municipal government administration and nonprofit management. Ms. Walsh holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Communications from the University of Tennessee at Knoxville and a Master of Public Administration degree from the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga. She is a member of the Alliance of Nonprofit Educators. Additionally, she is trained in conflict resolution and has been approved as a Rule 31 General Civil Mediator by the Tennessee State Supreme Court. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/30/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.