Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Get Started Identify Funding Opportunities Write Proposal Submit proposal Conduct Your Research Commercialize Your Research $sLabel Home Research Lifecycle Conduct Your Research AAA Conduct Your Research Get Started Identify Opportunities Write Proposal Submit Proposal Conduct Research Commercialize How we work to a world-class standard. Several offices under the Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship are dedicated to ensuring the integrity, safety and compliance of the sponsored programs we undertake. These professionals have a deep knowledge of regulatory requirements and know how to ensure that the end product of your work meets the utmost standards. POST-AWARD ADMINISTRATION Partner with Research Administration’s post-award team to set up , manage, and close-out your project. Find post-award forms and grants management tools. REGULATORY AFFAIRS & ASSESSMENT Ensure your work meets standards for conflicts of interest, disclosures, effort reporting, export control, financial management, foreign involvement and other regulations. research capacity and operations Teams that support reporting and data on sponsored projects at the University. They develop and maintain grant agreement management systems, effort certification and reporting, and research information technology. DIVISION OF VETERINARY RESOURCES The Division of Veterinary Resources (DVR) is the unit responsible for the oversight and implementation of the animal care and use program. The University is accredited by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care, International (AAALAC) and licensed by the USDA. This team ensures the welfare of tens of thousands of laboratory animals across the three University campuses. CORE FACILITIES AND SHARED RESOURCES (CORES) Access over a dozen shared resources, including animal facilities, imaging, biostatistics, research supplies and specialized marine science resources University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices