Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Leadership School Diversity Committee Uniquely Frost The Frost Method Ensembles Student Life Campus & Facilities COVID-19 Update Admissions Message from Dean Berg Undergraduate Graduate Visit Contact Us Programs & Degrees Programs by Department Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Frost Online Stamps Ensembles Henry Mancini Institute International Programs Community & Summer Programs Faculty Faculty by Instrument Faculty by Program Department Chairs Events Frost Music Live Event Calendar Concert Tickets Live Stream Hire a Musician Winter Wonderful Giving How to Give Donate Now Donation Form Ever Brighter Campaign Student Emergency Fund Travis Quinn Opportunity Scholarship Fund Sue Miller Fund Impact Alumni Alumni Association Distinguished Alumni Awards Score Magazine Submit Your Updates Stay Connected About Us Admissions Programs & Degrees Faculty Events Giving Alumni Search Alumni UM Alumni Association Frost Alumni by Department SCORE Magazine Submit Your Class Note Distinguished Alumni Awards Alumni FAQs Donate Now About Us Leadership School Diversity Committee Uniquely Frost The Frost Method Ensembles Student Life Campus & Facilities COVID-19 Update Admissions Message from Dean Berg Undergraduate Graduate Visit Contact Us Programs & Degrees Programs by Department Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Frost Online Stamps Ensembles Henry Mancini Institute International Programs Community & Summer Programs Faculty Faculty by Instrument Faculty by Program Department Chairs Events Frost Music Live Event Calendar Concert Tickets Live Stream Hire a Musician Winter Wonderful Giving How to Give Donate Now Donation Form Ever Brighter Campaign Student Emergency Fund Travis Quinn Opportunity Scholarship Fund Sue Miller Fund Impact Alumni Alumni Association Distinguished Alumni Awards Score Magazine Submit Your Updates Stay Connected Alumni UM Alumni Association Frost Alumni by Department SCORE Magazine Submit Your Class Note Distinguished Alumni Awards Alumni FAQs Donate Now Home #FrostBuilt Alumni AAA #FrostBuilt Alumni Alumni UM Alumni Association Frost Alumni by Department SCORE Magazine Submit Your Class Note Distinguished Alumni Awards Alumni FAQs Donate Now GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply #FrostBuilt alumni are some of the best and brightest in the industry. Graduates are changing the landscape in all music genres, as well as in music business, therapy, production, and engineering. Department Alumni Award Winners Submit Updates LinkedIn Alumna for Musicology Open All Tabs Nessyah Buder, B.M. ’98 “The Frost School of Music boasted an excellent musicology program as well as saxophone studio. The opportunity to study with world-renowned professors Dale Underwood, Dr. Deborah Schwartz-Kates, and Frank Cooper was a huge factor in my decision to go to UM. The generous scholarships and teaching assistantships, beautiful weather, and beer sold on campus were a bonus.” Alumnus for Music Business and Entertainment Industries Open All Tabs Matthew Limones, M.M. ’14 My favorite experience at Frost was having a cross-functional course load in the music, business, and communications schools. This structure helped me gain an in-depth look at the various different parts of the business and how important it is to know that no one area of specialty exists in a vacuum. Alumna for Instrumental Performance Open All Tabs Hannah Junco, B.M. ’18 "As a Miami local, I had admired the musicians of Frost since I was a child, and since then, I would manifest that I would one day study piano performance there. At the advice of my brother's violin teacher, I began private lessons with the wonderful Tian Ying, who coached me through the audition process. The audition process and beginning of my studies at UM was a completely new and exciting experience for me as I had been homeschooled all my life until my first day of college." Alumnus for Composition Open All Tabs David Davies, M.M. ’04, D.M.A. ’07 The first thing that attracted me to Frost was the faculty I met when I interviewed. They clearly cared about me as an individual and it was obvious that they enjoyed a real camaraderie with each other. It was clear to me then, and in the five years which followed, that Frost was the sort of place where people were afraid to express joy in their work, and that can be a surprisingly rare characteristic in higher education. I am thankful to have had the opportunity to be mentored by such gifted musicians and artists, and I remain friends with many of them to this day. I also had the opportunity to explore the real-world application of my studies, serving as Assistant Director of the Other Music Ensemble, and helping host two major composition conferences on campus. Those experiences served me well as I’ve hosted various conferences in the years since. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Frost School of Music Messinger Music Executive Building 5501 San Amaro Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2241 305-284-2241 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard Toppel Career Center UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Frost Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-instagram social-twitter social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices