Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECE Welcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board Academics Courses and Majors Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Outreach Why Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources Research Technical Interest Groups Bioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & Calendar News and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT Home Home Research Technical Interest Groups Electromagnetics Electromagnetics involves the study of Maxwell's equations and their application to the analysis and design of devices and systems. Maxwell's equations represent one of the most concise statements of the fundamentals of electricity and magnetism. It is from here that most of the working relationships in the field of electromagnetics are developed. The dynamic field of electromagnetics encompasses such far-reaching areas as microwave communications, antenna design, microwave millimeter engineering, and remote sensing. These cutting edge technologies are applied to national defense and security, the space program, and every form of commercial communications. ECE offers its graduate students ongoing opportunities to work as graduate Research Assistants or Graduate Teaching Assistants. Virtually all Ph.D. students receive funding support through teaching or research. View Faculty members for Electromagnetics Research Faculty and students in the Electromagnetics Group are engaged in a range of basic and applied research projects, which are supported by a network of governmental and industry sponsors including the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, Hewlett-Packard, National Aeronautical and Space Administration, the National Science Foundation, the National Security Agency, the Office of Naval Research, the U.S. Army Research Office, the SETI Institute, Texas Instruments, TRW, Amsoft, Raytheon, Motorola, National Semiconductor, Conextant, Lucent Technologies, and Ericsson. Electromagnetics includes everything about radio waves: their generation, propagation, and interactions with materials, devices, and systems. This includes: Technology for Microwave, MM-wave, and Terahertz Frequencies Detection of Obscured Targets Space Science and Satellite Communications Radar, Communication, and Navigation Novel Antenna Design and Analysis EM Wave Propagation Modeling Signal Integrity in High-speed Circuits Wireless Networks and Security Academics The depth and breadth of faculty expertise in electromagnetics is reflected in the curriculum, which provides students with a solid foundation in all areas of the field. The faculty is internationally recognized for their leadership and expertise in all areas of electromagnetics. Last revised October 4, 2021 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook Twitter YouTube © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology