Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Stop Video Stop Video Raleigh, N.C. We’re located in a thriving hub for culture and tech in our state: Raleigh, North Carolina. It’s known as the City of Oaks, and you’ll see how easy it is to grow roots here. Raleigh is nationally recognized as a top destination for both students and young professionals, so you can expect an amazing college experience — and a promising future after graduation. Our hometown. Your new home. Welcome to one of the fastest-growing cities in America. A vibrant hot spot within the southeastern United States, Raleigh is the capital of North Carolina and the perfect home for NC State’s Wolfpack. Here, you’ll taste a little of everything that makes life sweet. Live and study on a beautiful campus surrounded by acres of lush parks. Enjoy a bustling downtown that’s just minutes away. And reap the benefits of being in a major metropolitan area brimming with professional opportunities. #2 Best Place To Live in the U.S. U.S. News & World Report #3 Large-Sized College City in America WalletHub Start Your Bucket List Say goodbye to boring weekends. In Raleigh, there’s always something new to explore — from hot new restaurants to award-winning museums to major music festivals and sporting events. A foodie’s paradise: We can’t help but brag about our food scene. Dig into everything from Southern comfort food to world-class cuisine. (Raleigh restaurateur and NC State alum Ashley Christensen was named one of America’s best chefs by the James Beard Foundation.) An entertainment extravaganza: Explore some of the premier museums in the Southeast. Catch live music every night of the week — from local acts to chart-topping performers. And watch our professional hockey team, the Carolina Hurricanes, hit the ice in nearby PNC Arena. A natural oasis: We make the great outdoors look really great. Boat or fish at Lake Raleigh, located on campus. Take a stroll in the JC Raulston Arboretum, our gorgeous 10-acre botanical garden. Or venture through more than 100 miles of greenway trails across the city. A perfect climate: North Carolina is known for its temperate weather. (Raleigh’s average high is 71 F, and its average low is 50 F.) In a calendar year, you can expect dreamy spring florals, vibrant fall foliage and everything in between. Want to adventure farther? Our central location puts Atlantic Ocean beaches and the Appalachian Mountains both within reach for a day trip. And we’re served by Raleigh-Durham International Airport, so you’re a quick flight away from major travel destinations across the country and around the world. #3 Best Place for Business and Careers Forbes ranked Raleigh among the best places in the nation to begin your career. Excel in a High-Tech Hotbed With Durham and Chapel Hill, Raleigh anchors the Research Triangle, a renowned destination for high-technology enterprise. The top companies in the region — including IBM, Cisco Systems, SAS Institute, Biogen and GlaxoSmithKline — are among the country’s best employers. They also lead the way in hiring new NC State graduates. And there are more than 70 major companies, agencies and nonprofits located on our own Centennial Campus, offering internships and on-the-job experience just a walk or a bus ride from your classes. No matter what’s next for you, you’ll find a world of opportunity here in the heart of North Carolina. Discover NC State Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Take the Next Step Apply Ready to start your journey with us? Find out what you need to begin your application to NC State. Join the Pack Visit Want to see more of the campus you’ll call home? We offer in-depth virtual tours, or you can schedule an in-person visit. Come explore Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.