Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate Welcome Programs Faculty Research Admissions & Current Students FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate Finance Course Catalog Finance (B.B.A.) Finance, Real Estate Concentration (B.B.A.) Minors Banking and Financial ServicesBusiness FinanceReal EstateRisk Management and Insurance Certificates Financial Analyst & Planning Programs Professional Real Estate Tracks Financial AnalystFinancial Planning Master of Science in Business Administration (M.S.B.A.) concentration in Finance Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Business Administration with concentration in Finance Program Rankings Take Action Cook Analytics & Trading Lab Seminars Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home FIR Programs Interested in a Career in Real Estate Sales Interested in a career Real Estate Sales? In Tennessee (other States have different requirements) there are two main designations: (1) Affiliate Broker and the (2) Broker license. Most of you likely would not initially be interested in the Broker license since it requires having been an Affiliate Broker for three years first. Main requirements of the Affiliate Broker "[Tennessee Real Estate Commission, TREC] requires 90 hours of pre-license education before obtaining an affiliate license. The 60 hour Basic Principles of Real Estate (see page 10) course must be successfully completed prior to taking the exam and the 30 hour Course for New Affiliates (see page 11) course must be completed prior to licensure. After completion of the exam, an applicant must affiliate with a firm within six (6) months or retire the license." - https://www.tn.gov/content/dam/tn/commerce/documents/regboards/trec/posts/TREC_Instructor_Training_Manual.pdf Note: it appears these page numbers are off by one. The "60 hour requirement" can be met (see item (a) below) with the Finance, Real Estate Concentration (B.B.A.) "Pursuant to Rule 1260-5-.03(6), a candidate for an affiliate broker license shall be deemed to have completed the 60 hour course if: (a) the candidate holds a college or university degree with a major or concentration in real estate and the candidate's transcript shows successful completion of at least one 3 hour (30 hours or more of classroom instruction) course in the principles/fundamentals of real estate an at a minimum two more courses totaling at least 60 hours of classroom instruction in real estate as evidenced by the title or description of the course; or (b) the candidate holds a law degree . . ." (Taken from Tennessee Real Estate Commission Instructor Training Manual page 8 and 9). The "30-hour Course for New Affiliates" we do not have a course that meets this requirement at the University of Memphis. If you want a full listing of approved "schools", you can find it here. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/10/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.