Campus Recreation - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Campus Recreation Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Campus Recreation Home Hours About Us Mission, Vision & Values Health and Well-Being Telling Our Story History Spotlights Renovation Projects Data and Statistics Artwork Campus Recreation Staff Student Employment News & Announcements Aquatics Adult Swim Lessons Safety Training Special Events Reservations and Rentals Aquatic Policies Renovation Updates Facilities and Rentals Facility Hours Live Facility Counts Facility Policies Facility Tours Reservations and Special Events Facility Details Renovation and Upgrades Fitness Group Fitness Small Group Training & Workshops Personal Training Fitness Assessments FIT for HIRE Certification Training Nutrition Consultation Special Events Active with Art Rec Sports & Family Programs Intramural Sports How to register Become an Official Frequently Asked Questions IMS Registration Portal Champions Circle Sport Clubs Active Clubs Forms Starting a New Sport Club Family Programs UH Cougar Cub Summer Camp Member Services Services Locker Service Towel Service Pro Shop Passes Lost and Found Membership Eligibility UH Students Faculty/Staff/Retiree Alumni UH Affiliate Sponsored Memberships UH Student UH Faculty/Staff/Retiree UH Alumni UH Affiliate Frequently Asked Questions Membership Cancellations Outdoor Adventure Climbing Wall Climbing Classes and Workshops Trips Rentals Team Building Plan Your Own Adventure Giving Strengthening the Pride SIGN UP @ MYREC | FACILITY ACCESS FOR FIRST TIME USERS | PROGRAM REGISTRATION The Latest Updates on COVID-19 Important Note: Campus Recreation is ready to have you all back in our facility enjoying our different program areas! Make sure to look through our website to find what sparks your interest. Click on FACILITY, MODIFIED, CLOSINGS, and PROGRAMMED VENUE HOURS for the most updated times for usage. Access to the facility will be granted once you have signed a facility waiver for first-time users each academic year. Please log into the Campus Recreation portal before coming to the Rec Center to expedite your entry. Features GET MOVING. Outdoor Adventure is committed to introducing students to different types of outdoor activities in a safe, learning environment. GET MOTIVATED. Group Fitness provides a motivating atmosphere that is conducive to working out and helping individuals reach their fitness goals. GET INVOLVED. Intramural Sports features on-campus team and individual competitions for all UH students. GET FIT. Personal Training provides you with enough knowledge, advice, and resources to gain confidence in any fitness/weight room environment. GET EXPERIENCE. With an emphasis on hands-on learning, our First Aid/CPR/AED courses give you the skills to save a life. Campus Recreation Events Full Event Calendar Facebook Twitter Instagram Follow Us on Social Media Powered by Curator.io News & Announcements 2020 DSAES Awards Recipients We want to say congrats to staff members from our very own department on their well-deserved recognition! Norma Lara Cisneros, Cody Rickards, & Joseph Secrest were explicitly chosen by the awards committee to be recipients of such prestigious awards. Remote workout just for You! Hi Coogs, We are committed to keeping our students and practicing social distancing. We are providing opportunities for remote workouts. Follow on all social media platforms to participate in remote workouts, challenges, and live group fitness classes. Instagram @uhrecreation Facebook @uh recreation Twitter @uhrecreation Why I Care "I Seek to give every individual the tools they need to succeed, and guide them to be more than what they see in the mirror. What you do in the recreation center is so much more than just fitness" UH Diversity and Inclusion Statement The University of Houston embraces diversity and recognizes our responsibility to foster an open, welcoming environment where students, faculty and staff of all backgrounds can collaboratively learn, work and serve... Contact Information Department of Campus Recreation 4500 University Drive Houston, Texas 77204-6056 recreation@uh.edu University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies