Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Registrar Academic Advising Academic Ceremonies Academic Ceremonies Fall Rotunda Passage May Commencement Opening Convocation December Rotunda Recessional December Commencement Spring Rotunda Passage Honors Convocation May Baccalaureate Service May Rotunda Recessional May Commencement Degree Honors Degree Honors Inserts Graduation & Diploma Services About Us Academic Records Academic Records Degree Honors Enrollment Rules Honor Roll Progress Grades Viewing Your Grades GPA Calculator Graduation Honors Inserts Transcript Requests Transfer Credit Legal Process Enrollment Information Enrollment Information Fall Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Summer Enrollment Information Master of Science in Data Science Program Waitlist Guidelines Common Curriculum Online Course Evaluation Course Listings Help Enrollment Policy Exception Frequently Asked Questions Final Exam Schedule The General Education Curriculum Grade Posting Schedule University Curriculum View Textbooks Online Contact Us Contact Us Virtual Office Information SMU Links SMU Links Site Index About SMU Access and Equity Administration Bursar Calendars Campus Directory Clery Report Enrollment Services Financial Aid Giving Libraries Maps Meadows Museum Information Technology Registrar Search Student Affairs Webmail ☰ Calendars and Course Catalogs Academic Calendars Spring 2021 Red-Blue Rotation Schedule Spring 2021 Red-Blue Rotation Schedule Click here to see the Red-Blue Rotation Schedule for Spring 2021. Students taking undergraduate courses will be assigned either a Red or Blue rotation schedule. SMUFlex courses (courses that are not Virtual and have a room assignment) will follow a Red-Blue rotation schedule. Students will attend class in person on their assigned day and will engage virtually on the alternate days. Students who are assigned to the Red-Blue rotation schedule will see either a Red or Blue tile in my.SMU on their Student Homepage designating their rotation schedule (see below). Undergraduate students who have requested to be fully REMOTE or are taking all VIRTUAL courses will not be assigned to the Red-Blue rotation schedule. If a student is in the Red rotation schedule, then he/she will attend classes in person for every Red calendar day and attend classes virtually on every Blue calendar day. If a student is in the Blue rotation schedule, then he/she will attend classes in person for every Blue calendar day and attend classes virtually on every Red calendar day. In the event that an SMUFlex class has been assigned to a classroom with sufficient seating to accommodate all students, the faculty may choose to meet in person on all assigned class days. A student, however, has the ability to decide if they want to adhere strictly to their assigned Red-Blue schedule or if they would like to attend in-person if the faculty member presents that option. Students may not request to change their rotation schedule. The Red-Blue calendar will be a feature on your course calendar in Canvas. Advantages of the Red-Blue rotation schedule: Allows SMU to further “de-densify” the classroom and the campus. Minimizes the need for a student living off-campus to come to campus every day. Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share