Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Campus & City Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Sports & Fitness Run, cycle, swim and play. We’ll support your mind, body and soul, whether you’re striving for personal fitness or glory on the field or court. Access wellness coaching, personal training, and fitness classes. Join teams ranging from intramural to club. Enjoy top fitness facilities, and even Red Cross certifications, on your path to wellness. 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Get Fit From the traditional gym space to group fitness classes, personal training, racquet sports, aquatics and more, Yates Field House provides extensive fitness and wellness programming for students, faculty, staff, alumni and community members. Workout Explore More Group Fitness Racquet Sports Aquatics 20+ Activities played in intramural leagues or tournaments 2,500 Students participate in intramural sports 12 Group Fitness classes offered Play Youtube Video Join an Intramural Team More than 2,500 students participate in more than 20 types of intramural sports each academic year. These intramurals incorporate sportsmanship and friendly competition in recreational sport leagues, tournaments and special events. Compete in Intramurals 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Join a Club Team Club Sports provide opportunities for students to join organized sports teams. Play non-varsity athletics such as rugby and ice hockey. Teams are student-run, so take advantage of leadership opportunities in addition to competition and community. Compete with Club Play Youtube Video DC As Your Playground Consistently ranked one of the fittest cities in America, DC is a great place to run, bike and hike. Whether exploring the city by foot or cycling, you’re guaranteed to see unique historic sites and hidden treasures along the way. Run the District Best Places to Run in DC 1 of 3 Next Slide Prvious Slide 1 of 3 Next Slide Previous Slide Best Places to Run in DC Mount Vernon Loop From the front gates, this is a mostly flat run that includes a variety of sceneries, from M street to the woods by Teddy Roosevelt Island to the Jefferson and Lincoln Memorials. The whole loop is about 7 miles, but a shorter loop is about 5 miles. Read More Top 6 Runs Custis Trail Want to go for a run outside of DC but not have to drive there? Simply cross over the Key Bridge from Georgetown and turn right. This out-and-back run will take you into Maryland, and it goes on for miles and miles. Undulating hills make this a good workout, but the fellow runners and bike riders on the trail will keep you motivated. Read More Top 6 Runs Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Another out-and-back run, the C&O Canal is a classic for beginning to advanced runners. Right alongside M Street, getting onto the canal is a simple hop, skip and a jump. Its flat, sandy terrain makes for an easy recovery run or an option for a speedier workout. Also, it goes on for over 20 miles, so there is always more to see – from wildlife to boathouses. Read More Top 6 Runs Previous Slide Next Slide Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog