My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News I Want To Find Libraries Open Now Use the Libraries Borrow, Request, Renew Ask A Librarian Access Alumni Resources Make A Gift Events & Training Public Programs Workshops Drop-In Help Loading... Loading... Loading... Event Details × Close Collections From Life: Early Works by Florine Stettheimer Cotopaxi Men Who Dance With Men Jewish Underground Resistance: The David Diamant Collection Object Relations: Indigenous Belongings Wall Street Journal What is the Use of Buddhist Art? Addition to the John Yardley collection of source materials relating to the Dutch Reformed Church of NYC, 1700-1900 Art Properties Complies with the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA) Previous Next View All Collections News The Libraries announces 16 recipients of the 2022 Outstanding Student Worker awards, presented annually to students who have demonstrated exceptional commitment to their work for the organization. "Some people took up jigsaw puzzles during the pandemic... John Davisson, ’08CC, an attorney in Washington, DC, turned to Legos" to construct a 9,000-piece replica of Butler Library, as seen in Columbia Magazine. With construction on a new residential tower at 122nd St. and Claremont Ave. underway, staff at the Burke Library highlight past and present architecture on the Union Theological Seminary campus. View artifacts from the University's former one-block campus on 49th St. in Midtown, where Columbia was located for 40 years prior to its current home in Morningside Heights. Butler Library recently transformed empty shelves in the Lounge into a new browsing display that highlights newly-published titles, Columbia authors, and titles curated by Libraries staff and the Columbia community. Hear a presentation about the complex connections between Columbia residence halls and histories of racism and share your owns thoughts about proposals to acknowledge these histories in the built environment of campus. When University President Lee C. Bollinger steps down from his role in 2023 and Columbia inaugurates its next president, the Benjamin Franklin chair from the Rare Book & Manuscript Library will make an appearance at the ceremony. "An Heir, a $25 Million Giveaway, and 30,000 Unanswered Letters": Letters to heir Michael James Brody Jr., now held by the Rare Book & Manuscript Library, are "a time capsule of the setting of the Age of Aquarius." Previous Next View All News Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian