Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now Topics Maternal and Reproductive Health Maternal and Reproductive Health Maternal health creates conditions for health that last a lifetime. We provide insight into birth control and fertility, neonatal nutrition, and sexually transmitted infections, and study transitioning populations like migrants and refugees. Featured Video <a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/X0SgrJezfSo?rel=0&amp;wmode=opaque&amp;autohide=1">Embedded video</a> Faculty in Maternal and Reproductive Health Angela Aidala Associate Research Scientist Sociomedical Sciences Anne Paxton Associate Professor Epidemiology & Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center Alwyn Cohall Professor Sociomedical Sciences, Population and Family Health, and Pediatrics at the Columbia University Medical Center Bruce Armstrong Special Lecturer Population and Family Health Batya Elul Associate Professor Epidemiology at Columbia University Medical Center Bruce Levin Professor Biostatistics Beverly Winikoff Professor of Clinical Population and Family Health Cassie Landers Assistant Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center Carolyn Westhoff Sarah Billinghurst Solomon Professor of Reproductive Health Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology David Bell Professor Population and Family Health and Pediatrics at the Columbia University Medical Center Ezra Susser Professor Epidemiology and Psychiatry Frederica Perera Professor Environmental Health Sciences Guohua Li Professor Epidemiology Julie Herbstman Associate Professor Environmental Health Sciences Jessica Justman Associate Professor Medicine (in Epidemiology and ICAP) at the Columbia University Medical Center John Santelli Professor Population and Family Health and Pediatrics Jennifer Hirsch Professor Sociomedical Sciences Linda Cushman Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center Lauren Houghton Assistant Professor Epidemiology Leslie Davidson Professor Epidemiology and Pediatrics at the Columbia University Medical Center Lynn Freedman Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center Mary Ann Chiasson Professor of Clinical Epidemiology (in Medicine) Melanie Gold Professor Population and Family Health and Pediatrics at the Columbia University Medical Center Magda Schaler-Haynes Adjunct Professor Health Policy and Management Mady Hornig Associate Professor Epidemiology at the Columbia University Medical Center Marni Sommer Associate Professor Sociomedical Sciences Mary Beth Terry Professor Epidemiology (In Environmental Health Sciences) Robert Klitzman Professor Psychiatry (in Sociomedical Sciences) at the Columbia University Medical Center Susan Michaels-Strasser Assistant Professor Epidemiology (in ICAP) at the Columbia University Medical Center Therese McGinn Professor Emerita Heilbrunn Department of Population and Family Health Virginia Rauh Professor Heilbrunn Department of Population and Family Health Wendy Chavkin Special Lecturer/ Professor Emerita Population and Family Health and Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology Vegard Skirbekk Professor Population and Family Health (In the Columbia Aging Center) Chloe Teasdale Adjunct Assistant Professor Epidemiology Joanne Csete Associate Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center Marianthi-Anna Kioumourtzoglou Assistant Professor Environmental Health Sciences Latanya Mapp Frett Adjunct Assistant Professor Population and Family Health Andrea Low Assistant Professor Epidemiology (in ICAP) at the Columbia University Medical Center S. Patrick Kachur Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center Jamie Daw Assistant Professor Health Policy and Management Jeanette Stingone Assistant Professor Epidemiology Rupak Shivakoti Assistant Professor Epidemiology Goleen Samari Assistant Professor Population and Family Health Vandana Tripathi Adjunct Associate Professor Population and Family Health Sara Casey Assistant Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center Janna Metzler Adjunct Assistant Professor Population and Family Health Kathleen Sikkema Stephen Smith Professor Sociomedical Sciences Ambar La Forgia Assistant Professor Health Policy and Management Abigail Greenleaf Assistant Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center (at ICAP) Neetu John Assistant Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center Maya Deyssenroth Assistant Professor Environmental Health Sciences Ka Kahe Tilden-Weger-Bieler Professor Obstetrics & Gynecology and Epidemiology Kelli Hall Associate Professor Population and Family Health Stephanie Grilo Assistant Professor Population and Family Health Elizabeth Radin Lecturer Epidemiology News & Features Public Health Leaders Urge SCOTUS to Uphold Roe v. Wade A group of public health leaders, including Dean Linda P. Fried and Terry McGovern, chair of the Heilbrunn Department of Population and Family Health, are signatories to a letter calling on the U.S. Supreme Court to uphold Roe v. Wade. Not doing so, they write, “will have profound publi Period Poverty and the Pandemic: A Forgotten Crisis Have you ever had to make a decision about whether to buy food or tampons? Use a sock as a pad? Or to wear tight-fitting pants to bed so your makeshift pad doesn’t move around too much and stain your sheets? These are some of the experiences for those facing period poverty,&nbs Community and Puberty Hurriedly stuffing a pad into your sleeve while you make a break for the bathroom at work or school. Saying “it's just a stomachache” instead of admitting to the cramps you’re feeling. Discreetly checking the back of your pants in a storefront window. These are all experiences that most girl See All Just Published Sommer, M., Phillips-Howard, P.A., Mahon, T., Zients, S., Jones, M., & Caruso, B.A. (2017). Beyond Menstrual Hygiene: Addressing Vaginal Bleeding Throughout the Life Course in Low and Middle-Income Countries. BMJ Global Health. View abstract. Keyes, K.M., & Susser, E. (2017). Invited Commentary: An Ingenious Approach to Examining the Relationship Between Maternal Stress and Offspring Health? American Journal of Epidemiology. View abstract. Teasdale, C.A., Abrams, E.J., Chiasson, M.A. … & Jones, H.E. (2017). Sexual Risk and Intravaginal Practice Behavior Changes During Pregnancy. Archives of Sexual Behavior. View abstract. Ananth C. V., Wapner, R.J., Ananth, S., D’Alton M.E., & Vintzileos, A.M. (2017). First-Trimester and Second Trimester Maternal Serum Biomarkers as Predictors of Placental Abruption. Obstetrics & Gynecology. View abstract. Brown. Q.L., Sarvet, A.L., Shmulewitz, D. ... & Hasin, D.S. (2017). Trends in Marijuana Use Among Pregnant and Nonpregnant Reproductive-Aged Women, 2002-2014. JAMA. View abstract. Related Centers & Programs Harlem Health Promotion Center A collaboration of community and academic stakeholders to improve the health and well-being of the Harlem community. ICAP at Columbia ICAP has worked since 2004 with one central goal: to improve the health of families and communities. Columbia Center for Children's Environmental Health The Center strives to create a world in which every child has a healthy start. National Center for Children in Poverty Dedicated to promoting the economic security, health, and well-being of America’s low-income families and children. Averting Maternal Death and Disability (AMDD) AMDD works with partners around the world to promote respectful, accountable and effective health systems. Reproductive Health Access Information and Services in Emergencies The RAISE Initiative is committed to the provision of fully integrated and comprehensive SRH services for all. Laboratory of Precision Environmental Health The Baccarelli Laboratory Advancing Research on Community Health Systems ARCHeS aims to bridge the gap between disease and system through implementation and delivery science. Global Emergency Medical Fellowship Developing leaders in effective acute care health systems delivery and humanitarian action Upcoming Events Wednesday 1 June episummer@columbia Friday 3 June Release Webinar for the National Academy of Medicine's Global Roadmap for Health Longevity Friday 3 June COVID-19: From Causes to Consequences Hosted by The Columbia Connection Monday 6 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Tuesday 7 June New Resources and Creative Strategies for Recruiting Candidates for Health Departments Tuesday 7 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Thursday 9 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Friday 10 June Creating a Synthetic Life Course Cohort for Research on Alzheimer's Disease Neuroepidemiology Seminar Friday 10 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers