Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Packaging Science (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT What do air, cars, laptops, plants, knee-replacements and lunch have in common? They all can be and are packaged! Students majoring in packaging science learn all about the design, engineering, science, innovation, research and business that make up this diverse industry. For more than 20 years, Clemson has been thinking outside of the box and producing career-ready graduates who are ready to solve the problems of tomorrow. Clemson is one of just a few schools in the U.S. that offers a degree in packaging science. Our program is unique as it blends together biology, chemistry and physics. Because of this, our graduates fill a special niche within industry. Since this is a very hands-on major, you'll get to work with package design and graphics, food and health care packaging and advanced materials. FAST FACTS Clemson offers one of just a few packaging science undergraduate degree programs in the U.S. All packaging science students are required to complete a Cooperative Education assignment in local industry. Our student Packaging Science Club attends the national PACK EXPO every year. Eligible students can begin graduate course work in their senior year to begin earning their master's. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Packaging science majors first complete basic course work in science and math before delving into the intricacies of packaging design, materials, polymers and distribution. A strong science and math background is essential for success. Clemson offers four emphasis areas including: Distribution, transportation and engineering technology Materials Food and health care packaging Package design and graphics Our faculty are in touch with the ever-changing needs of industry. Industry partnerships have helped stock the laboratories with equipment for you to use. You will have access to each of the labs as an enhancement to your classroom learning: The Cryovac Flavourmark Retort Laboratory. The CEFPACK (Center for Flexible Packaging). The Sonoco Transport Package Testing Laboratory. The Sonoco Institute of Packaging Design and Graphics. Culinary Research Lab. Combined Bachelor's/Master's Program Get a jump-start on your graduate degree in packaging science with Clemson's accelerated five-year combined bachelor's/master's program. Curriculum Packaging Science, B.S. Popular Minors Art Chemistry Business Administration Environmental Science and Policy Food Science Marketing Microbiology Similar Majors Food Science and Human Nutrition (B.S.) Graphic Communications (B.S.) Mechanical Engineering (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Majoring in packaging science at Clemson gives you the opportunity to get involved with the industry. Students are required to put themselves outside the classroom and inside factories, labs and other facilities. You will leave Clemson knowledgeable of the issues of the packaging science world and confident in your ability to find a career in this field of study. Co-op Each student in the packaging science major is required to complete a six-month Cooperative Education experience, which allows you to work alongside an industry mentor. Learn More » Workspace The Harris A. Smith Building was the first LEED Gold certified building on campus. It is home to the Sonoco Institute for Packaging Design and Graphics, which brings together packaging science and graphic communications majors. Capstone As a senior, you'll complete a capstone project that truly brings real-world problems to students for solution. Our students have taken on challenges and issues important to new startup companies and established billion-dollar companies. Join As part of our Packaging Science Club you'll meet regularly with fellow undergrad and grad students to present and discuss relevant packaging issues. Every fall, the club and department help sponsor student travel to the PACK EXPO.Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS The Clemson Packaging Science Club Women in Packaging AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Associate Packaging Engineer Kraft Foods Packaging Designer Johnson & Johnson R&D Packaging Engineer Burt’s Bees Research & Development Associate PepsiCo. Packaging Engineer I Mercedes Benz US RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.S. Packaging Science Clemson University MBA Clemson University COMMON CAREER AREAS Private Research Projects Package Development Packaging Machinery Food Processing Lab Contract Package Testing Distribution Testing Shelf Life Evaluation Material Testing Material Identification, Characterization and Comparison Graphic Design Design and Development FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Madison Cutts Coordinator of Student Recruitment mcutts@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Packaging Science (B.S.) Food Science and Human Nutrition (B.S.) Graphic Communications (B.S.) Mechanical Engineering (B.S.)