Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Media and Public RelationsMenu Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena Baylor University Celebrates Newly Renovated Tidwell Bible Building (L to R) Katie Moore, Jackie Baugh Moore, President Linda A. Livingstone, and Michelle and Jon Mark Buckner celebrated the reopening of the renovated Baylor landmark, Tidwell Bible Building, during a ribbon-cutting ceremony Aug. 25. (Robert Rogers/Baylor University) Tidwell Bible Building on the Baylor University campus. (Matthew Minard/Baylor University) Tweet Aug. 25, 2021 Renovated spaces will be home to religion, history and sociology departments, new hi-tech classrooms Media Contact: Lori Fogleman, Baylor University Media and Public Relations, 254-709-5959 Follow us on Twitter: @BaylorUMedia WACO, Texas (Aug. 25, 2021) – During a ceremonial ribbon cutting, Baylor University today celebrated the opening of the newly-renovated Tidwell Bible Building, one of many historic buildings that make up the core of the University’s campus. The renovation and careful preservation of the 67-year-old building was planned as part of the $300 million in capital improvements to support the aspirations of the Give Light Campaign, the university’s fundraising campaign intended to fund Baylor’s efforts to become a preeminent Christian research university. The project was funded through a lead gift of $15 million from The Sunderland Foundation of Overland Park, Kansas, and a completion gift from the late Barbara “Babs” Nell Baugh, of San Antonio, and The Eula Mae and John Baugh Foundation. Representatives of the Sunderland Foundation and the family of Mrs. Baugh attended the event to celebrate the facility’s opening. The dedication and ribbon cutting were hosted by Baylor President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., and other University administrators, faculty and students in front of Tidwell and within the Eula Mae and John Baugh Foyer. “Tidwell Bible Building is a much-loved landmark at Baylor University, and we are grateful to the Sunderland Foundation and the Baugh family for helping us to restore and preserve this wonderful piece of Baylor’s history,” President Livingstone said. “At some point in their Baylor journeys, practically all of our students have taken a class in Tidwell, which houses some of our core disciplines, and we are grateful that this Baylor tradition will continue on for future generations because of their generosity.” The renovation began in May 2020 and was completed ahead of schedule, in time for faculty and classrooms to move in ahead of students’ return to campus for the Fall 2021 semester. In addition to improving infrastructure, the renovation of Tidwell’s 57,000 square feet dramatically expanded and enhanced areas devoted to academic instruction, faculty offices and community building. “We are grateful for this new home for Baylor’s history, sociology and religion departments,” said Lee Nordt, Ph.D., dean of the College of Arts & Sciences. “Tidwell represents a rich history of Baylor’s faculty investing in students and inspiring them to investigate how their Christian faith animates their lives, and we are grateful that this space will continue to serve the needs of our students and faculty for generations to come. Thank you to the Sunderland Foundation and the Baugh family for helping us to preserve this important part of Baylor’s history.” Tidwell Bible Building, which was originally dedicated in 1954, has served tens of thousands of Baylor students who have taken classes in Tidwell in religion, philosophy, history, sociology, nursing, modern foreign language and sacred music. The building was named after Baylor professor Josiah Blake Tidwell, who taught Scriptures classes for 36 years and was the founder of the current department of religion in 1910. The Tidwell Bible Building’s creation was initiated by 125 former students who met in 1936 to conceive a plan to honor his teaching. The resulting building with its 68 carved limestone panels tell the story of the Bible in an exterior panorama that encircles the building twice. The facility will carry on a rich tradition of serving the majority of the University’s population as it houses faculty offices for the religion, history and sociology departments and features renovated technology-enabled classrooms and greater accessibility to enable technology-enhanced learning. Graduate seminar rooms, conference rooms and a dedicated graduate student lounge were also created through the renovation. Important renovation components also include the preservation of the limestone carvings depicting scenes from the Old and New Testaments and the stained-glass windows that shine in Miller Chapel, as well as the conversion of the Chapel into a two-story space for faculty offices. Before several new chapels were built on campus, Miller Chapel had served for decades as the primary chapel on campus. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 19,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 90 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. More News ... News Archives Looking for more news from Baylor University? Tweets by @BaylorUMedia Contact Us mail Media and Public Relations Baylor University One Bear Place #97024 Waco, TX 76798 tel (254) 710-1961 Email mediacomm@baylor.edu More Contact Info Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Baylor Bears 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Baylor Religion Survey Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Detecting Biomarkers for Cancer Eye Cancer App Helps Save Lives Exhuming Immigrant Remains Fighting Tropical Diseases Higgs Boson Research iCivics Baylor Model Life Patterns in Extreme Environments Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Small Business and Community Health Research Texas Hunger Initiative Water Quality Research Whale Earplug Reveals Lifetime Contaminant Exposure and Hormone Profiles Data Privacy Day 2019 Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Dean's Academic Honor List Graduation List Academic Scholarship Awards List Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena