Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Agricultural Mechanization and Business (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT For many Americans, the mention of the word agriculture sends the imagination to a corn field with a tractor. But the agricultural mechanization and business major at Clemson turns that idea upside down and leads students into the innovative and international world of agriculture and agribusiness, combining sciences and related technologies with a background in business management. Students who are mechanically or technologically inclined and who are especially interested in any phase of food and fiber production will find a great fit in this program. You will graduate from Clemson prepared to pursue a career in numerous positions across the agricultural industry, including sales and service, systems testing and development, business and operations management, consulting, compliance and regulation, and product marketing. Our graduates contribute to companies in both technical and managerial capacities, which makes them highly sought after by employers. FAST FACTS Agricultural mechanization and business is a very hands-on engineering technology major. Companies return to hire our graduates because of their great ability to solve real-world problems. You'll be exposed to hands-on learning through our campus laboratories and farms as well as during industry tours. Most students in this program are active in the Ag Mech Club. Nearly all of our students complete an internship before graduation. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY The agricultural mechanization and business curriculum is based on a foundation of mechanical and power systems with classes in agricultural engineering technology, agricultural and basic sciences, and business management. You'll take various courses that delve into soil and water conservation practices, drainage and irrigation, as well as other agricultural systems. Courses venture outside of the textbook to provide a real-world knowledge of what practices are common today and what can be expected as these industries continue to evolve. In your first semester as a freshman, you'll dive right into major-specific classes. Of the three you'll take, one brings alumni back to campus to talk about their careers and help you understand potential career opportunities. In the Principles of Fabrication class, you'll be familiarized with basic wood and metal fabrication methods and techniques. Finally, the Agricultural Applications of Technology course provides an overview of useful computer technologies and software for the industry. Communication is becoming more and more important in today's society, so to ensure that you are prepared to communicate effectively, your course load will include classes in the humanities, social sciences, English and public speaking. Curriculum Agricultural Mechanization and Business, B.S. Popular Minors Business Administration Plant and Environmental Sciences Similar Majors Agricultural Education (B.S.) Biosystems Engineering (B.S.) Mechanical Engineering (B.S.) Plant and Environmental Sciences (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Although classroom instruction is a part of every college degree, this program expands outside the classroom more than many others. Various laboratories and facilities on campus are used, and you'll be also exposed to industry and research stations. Cutaway Tractor Our program has one of the world's only working cutaway tractors, built entirely by students. The John Deere cutaway is a one-of-a-kind, inside-out tractor, designed to exhibit the machine's inner workings. Capstone Project For your senior capstone project you'll solve a real-world problem related to your area of interest. Examples of student work include developing mechanics for weighing crop yield and presenting on alternative fuel type efficiency. Internships You'll be encouraged to gain experience by engaging in summer internships or co-ops, which allow you to gain a greater understanding of the field you're interested in entering after graduation. Ag Mech Club Clemson's Ag Mech Club ties the academic program with fun and practical applications such as guest speakers and farm tours. Each year, members travel to conferences such as the Sunbelt Ag Expo. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Block and Bridle Clemson Collegiate FFA Chapter Horticulture Club AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Marketing and Sales Representative TTI Group Ag Irrigation Sales WP Law Project Coordinator Chandler Construction Inside Sales Coastal AgroBusiness Farm Manager Linwood Farm RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.S. Crop and Soil Science University of Georgia M.S. Agriculture Clemson University M.S. Plant and Environmental Sciences Clemson University Master of Public Administration/M.S. Environmental and Sustainability Studies College of Charleston COMMON CAREER AREAS Government Research and Education Service / Maintenance Management Compliance / Regulation Agricultural Extension Agronomy / Soil Conservation Business Administration Real Estate / Insurance Business Ownership / Entrepreneurship Brokerage / Investing / Lending Dealership Management Agricultural Consulting and Contracting Precision AgricultureÂ Stormwater Management Nutrient Management Processing and Manufacturing Training / Logistics Power / MachineryÂ Grain Terminal Operations Equipment Marketing / Development Service Management Systems Testing Technical Sales Agricultural Chemicals and Seed Research and Development Technical Sales Hydraulic, Pneumatic and Electrical Components Engineered Sales Design and Development Support Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Madison Cutts Coordinator of Student Recruitment mcutts@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Agricultural Mechanization and Business (B.S.) Agricultural Education (B.S.) Biosystems Engineering (B.S.) Mechanical Engineering (B.S.) Plant and Environmental Sciences (B.S.)