About Meetings & Events Food Offices Services Diversity Student Engagement Home About Annual Report Advertise in the MU Reservation Form Advertise in the MU Architecture Awards & Recognition ISU Memorial Union Harold Pride Service Medallion Past MU Awards Ceremonies Roger Ferris: MU Student Employee Award Building Hours Contact Us Workorder Request Key / Electronic Card Access Request Employment Current Openings Application Creative Job Fair Gold Star Hall History Timeline Jobs & Internships for Creatives Maps & Directions MU 2 You Video Series Mission Vision Values Renovations In the MU Floors 4-6 Renovation Building History Contact Us MU Suggestion Box Parking Peak Performance Leadership Policies and Forms MU Graphics Request Incident Report Postings & Promotions Mechanical Work Order Request Staff Directory Story of the Memorial Union Video Traditions, Myths & Stories Parking & Maps Parking Parking Ramp Permit Application Automated Pay Stations Hosted Event Parking Validation Request Form Maps & Directions Building Directory Building Maps Accessible Entrances Directions to the MU Transportation Gold Star Hall Gold Star Hall Ceremony 2018 Ceremony 2017 Ceremony 2016 Ceremony 2015 Ceremony 2014 Ceremony 2019 Ceremony World War I World War II Korea Vietnam Somalia The Global War on Terrorism Criteria The History of Gold Star Hall Services In The Memorial Union Meetings & Events Space Requests MU Room Request University Outdoor Space Request Booth and Table Request Requesting Rooms on Campus Extended Hours Request Form Event Promotion Room Amenities Room Rates & Capacities Room Rates & Capacities FY23 A/V Packages & Pricing Event Equipment & Services Event Authorization Policies & Guidelines MU Food Policy Resources ISU Catering Approved Food Vendor Form Bus Unloading and Loading Event and Meeting Room Photo Gallery Contact Us Services Diversity Food MU Food Court MU Market and Café Panda Express and Sushi by Panda™ ISU Catering Vending Student Engagement Arts & Entertainment Leadership & Service Offices Menu Advertise in the MU Let the MU give you that extra push you need to turn your goals into results. More Work in the Memorial Union Stay updated on open listings for students in the Memorial Union. Apply today! More Name Change! Student Activities Center Is Now Memorial Union Student Engagement More Floors 4-6 Renovations See what's in store for ISU students on our top floors! More Gold Star Hall Learn more about the historic and honored memorial to Iowa State students who gave the ultimate sacrifice. More Our Mission, Vision, & Values Here's our WHY. What's yours? More Renovations in the MU Updates to the MU will make the building more accessible and able to serve students' needs. MORE Parking & Maps Are you visiting campus or the Memorial Union? Find information on where to park and how to navigate our building. MORE Services In The Memorial Union Whether you need to mail a package, grab some cash, or just take a break, the MU has you covered. Leadership & Service The MU is proud to house the Leadership and Service Center, which facilitates leadership programs and connects both individuals and student clubs to service projects. MORE Arts & Entertainment The Memorial Union is the hub of fine arts, crafts and live entertainment on campus! Get your hands dirty, catch a show, shoot some pool with your buddies, or head to a lecture. There's always something to do in the MU! MORE Gold Star Hall Gold Star Hall is the "memorial" in the Memorial Union, where names of Iowa State students who gave their lives while serving their country are engraved on the walls. MORE Upcoming Events Jun 01 Oyster Shell Trinket Dish: Walk-in Craft Runs through Jun 5 Walk in June & July during open hours Jun 01 Pinwheel Painting: Walk-in Craft Runs through Jun 5 Walk in June & July during open hours Jun 01 Joanie McGinnis: Jazz Impressions Exhibit Runs through Jun 4 Located on the 1st Floor, Free Admission Jun 02 Free Crafts at Art Walk Join us in Downtown Ames! Jun 03 Ice Dye Walk-In Craft Drop in on Fridays this summer! Jun 05 Joanie McGinnis: Jazz Impressions Exhibit Located on the 1st Floor, Free Admission more Memories Made @ My MU Discover the Iowa Student Leadership Experience - developing the next generation of leaders February 08, 2022 A little over two years ago, we dedicated effort and heart to redefining who we are so we... Name Change: Student Activities Center Is Now Memorial Union Student Engagement August 20, 2021 The Memorial Union is pleased to announce a name change within our department. Effective A... MU 2 You Video Series: Impact of Student Org Experiences May 26, 2020 Event management seniors Makenzie Schurk and Diego Bonilla join MU 2 You. Makenzie and Di... more Connect with us! Memorial Union Foundation Fund Your generous contributions help preserve the spirit of Iowa State Memorial Union for future generations. There are many ways to give. Choose the one that's right for you. Give to the mu ISU Memorial Union Iowa State University 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50011-1130 Information Desk: 515-296-6848 Contact Us Iowa State University Memorial Union Iowa State University 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50011-1130 Information Desk: 515-296-6848 Connect with us! ISU Memorial Union Iowa State University 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50011-1130 Information Desk: 515-296-6848 Contact Us Connect with us! Memorial Union Foundation Fund Your generous contributions help preserve the spirit of Iowa State Memorial Union for future generations. There are many ways to give. Choose the one that's right for you. Give to the mu ISU Memorial Union Iowa State University 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50011-1130 Information Desk: 515-296-6848 Contact Us Connect with us! Memorial Union Foundation Fund Your generous contributions help preserve the spirit of Iowa State Memorial Union for future generations. There are many ways to give. Choose the one that's right for you. Give to the mu Iowa State University Memorial Union Iowa State University 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50011-1130 Information Desk: 515-296-6848 Contact Us Connect with us! Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State Memorial Union . All rights reserved. Non-Discrimination Statement and Information Disclosures | Sitemap WEB DEVELOPMENT BY GLOBAL REACH © 2022 Iowa State Memorial Union. All rights reserved.