Skip to main content Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Business Minors Canfield Business Honors Integrated MPA Student Life Get Involved Canfield Business Honors Challenge Yourself Graduate Back Graduate Master's Programs Master's Programs MPA – Accounting MS Business Analytics MS Finance MS Health Care Transformation MS IT & Management MS Marketing MS Technology Commercialization MBA Programs MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Weekend MBA – Dallas Weekend MBA – Houston Doctoral Take the Next Step Explore Our Graduate Programs Centers & Initiatives Back Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives More than 20 centers and initiatives bring professionals and academics together to advance the future of business. Each one focuses on a critical part of industry, from supply chain management to blockchain and beyond. View All Centers KBH Energy Center for Business, Law, and Policy Supply Chain Management Center AIM Investment Conference Register and Attend Faculty & Research Back Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Research Faculty Directory Departments Departments Accounting Business, Government, & Society Finance Information, Risk, & Operations Management Management Marketing Steven Kachelmeier Named Accounting Chair Read the Full Story Recruiters & Corporations Back Recruiters & Corporations Recruiters Corporations Events Contact & Visit Why McCombs Recruit With Us Learn More Corporate Partners Learn More Alumni Back Alumni Benefits Community Events Awards Give Poised Pioneer Peggy's Story Texas McCombs Presents RSVP About Back About The McCombs Difference Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Invest in McCombs Commencement Contact Coronavirus Life at McCombs Meet the Dean Our Leadership McCombs Centennial Celebrate With Us News & Events Directory Give Contact Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Business Minors Canfield Business Honors Integrated MPA Student Life Get Involved Canfield Business Honors Challenge Yourself Graduate Back Graduate Master's Programs Master's Programs MPA – Accounting MS Business Analytics MS Finance MS Health Care Transformation MS IT & Management MS Marketing MS Technology Commercialization MBA Programs MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Weekend MBA – Dallas Weekend MBA – Houston Doctoral Take the Next Step Explore Our Graduate Programs Centers & Initiatives Back Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives More than 20 centers and initiatives bring professionals and academics together to advance the future of business. Each one focuses on a critical part of industry, from supply chain management to blockchain and beyond. View All Centers KBH Energy Center for Business, Law, and Policy Supply Chain Management Center AIM Investment Conference Register and Attend Faculty & Research Back Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Research Faculty Directory Departments Departments Accounting Business, Government, & Society Finance Information, Risk, & Operations Management Management Marketing Steven Kachelmeier Named Accounting Chair Read the Full Story Recruiters & Corporations Back Recruiters & Corporations Recruiters Corporations Events Contact & Visit Why McCombs Recruit With Us Learn More Corporate Partners Learn More Alumni Back Alumni Benefits Community Events Awards Give Poised Pioneer Peggy's Story Texas McCombs Presents RSVP About Back About The McCombs Difference Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Invest in McCombs Commencement Contact Coronavirus Life at McCombs Meet the Dean Our Leadership McCombs Centennial Celebrate With Us About Life at McCombs Virtual Tour The McCombs Difference Our Values Facts and Rankings Our History Leadership Diversity Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives DEI Committee Elevate Conference By the Numbers Invest in McCombs A Million for McCombs Capital Campaign Stewardship and Donor Relations Scholars Program FAQ Contact Us Centennial Commencement Keynote Speakers Contact Coronavirus Student Guide AboutInvest in McCombs Invest in McCombs GIVE TO MCCOMBS The future of business starts here. We have a difference to make. And it starts with you. Donate Today Quick Links Scholars Program Stewardship and Donor Relations FAQ Contact Us Ways to Give A Million for McCombs Have we got a challenge for you! Thanks to a historic $500,000 matching gift, you have a once-in-a-generation opportunity to go the extra mile for McCombs students, faculty and staff! By helping us reach A Million for McCombs, you will support student scholarships, faculty retention, facility improvements and experiential learning to benefit world changers for generations to come. So, what are you waiting for? Give to A Million for McCombs McCombs Capital Campaign Imagine creating an opportunity for someone to CHANGE THE WORLD. By giving to our Capital Campaign, you do just that. Your gifts provide support for students to reach for, and achieve their dreams, no matter how big they may seem. Give to Our Capital Campaign Thank You You are a vital part of the Texas McCombs family. Your support enables us to continue to offer a world-class business education to a diverse and growing population. Lillian Mills, Dean Other Ways to Give Alumni Endowed Excellence Fund Provide a lasting source of support for student initiatives Encourage experiential learning with “real-world” activities and collaboration with industry Increase students’ competitive advantage with experiences outside the classroom Increase alumni interaction with students Distinguish the McCombs School as a leader in business education Give to the Alumni Endowed Excellence Funds and Foster the Legacy of Your McCombs Degree! Annual Giving The success of the McCombs School is founded on the energy and generosity of our entire community of supporters. We are proud of the alumni, friends, students, corporate partners, and foundations who dedicate their time, vision, and resources to ensure excellence in business education year after year. With more than 85,000 alumni, gifts of any size make a huge collective impact. Whether you give to the area of greatest need at the school or designate your gift to support a department, program, or center of excellence, your annual gifts are put to use right away. The McCombs School fiscal year begins September 1 and ends August 31. Your gifts to the McCombs School are tax-deductible to the extent allowed by law. Unrestricted annual gifts to the Alumni Annual Fund help McCombs prepare students for positions of leadership. Gifts to the Fund help students in countless ways - funding scholarships, career services and improved facilities and technology. For additional information, please contact: Colin Haymes, Assistant Director of Development 512-471-3992 Make a Gift Corporate and Foundation Relations The Corporate and Foundation Relations team facilitates mutually beneficial relationships between corporate and foundation partners and the McCombs School, connecting companies with students, faculty, research centers, executive education and additional priority initiatives. Visit the Corporate and Foundation Relations website Corporate Matching Many employers sponsor matching gift programs and will match any charitable contributions made by their employees. To find out if your company has a matching gift policy, please visit the university's matching gift search page. If your company is eligible, request a matching gift form from your employer, and send it completed and signed with your gift. We will do the rest. The impact of your gift to The University of Texas at Austin may be doubled or possibly tripled. Some companies match gifts made by retirees and/or spouses. Endowments Often described as “gifts that keep on giving,” endowments leverage your gift across time and provide tangible, lasting benefits. The UT System invests your funds, using distributions from the investment for the purpose you wish to support – financial aid or merit awards for students, faculty support or research productivity, academic programs, or renovation or operation of facilities such as classrooms and centers of excellence for targeted curriculum and research initiatives. A portion of the total income and capital gains is reinvested each year, enabling the endowment to continue to grow and provide a predictable, stable stream of income over time. For information on endowments, please contact Holly Hazlett in the McCombs School at 512-475-8144. For information on corporate and foundation endowments, please contact Wendy Elder at 512-475-8133. Gifts and Estate Planning Gift Planning is one of the most powerful ways you can benefit the McCombs School of Business. Many people tend to associate this type of philanthropy only with wills, estates, and legacies, and may assume that the benefits flow in just one direction. In fact, a planned gift can be extremely flexible, include many tax advantages, and provide you with reliable lifetime income while ultimately directing valuable resources to the McCombs School. Visit Gift and Estate Planning to learn about the many ways you can accomplish your charitable goals. UT Austin's Office of Gift Planning has the tools and experience to help you explore the possibilities and customize a plan that fits your needs and goals. Donors who include UT Austin in their estate plans qualify for membership in the Texas Leadership Society, which recognizes those whose generous and thoughtful actions today will strengthen the university far into the future. To join the Texas Leadership Society and make your own mark on UT's future, contact Byron Liles, Director of Gift & Estate Planning at 512-475-6058 or Byron.Liles@austin.utexas.edu, or call the Office of Gift Planning at 866-4UTEXAS (488-3927). Matching Gifts You may be able to double or even triple your gift to UT. Many employers sponsor matching gift programs to match charitable contributions made by their employees. To find out if your company does, check our matching service or visit your company’s human resources department. Complete the form provided by your company and mail it to: The University of Texas at Austin University Development Office Matching Gift Coordinator P.O. Box 7458 Austin, Texas 78713-7458 Phone: 800-687-4602 Fax: 512-475-7743 Payroll Deduction Are you a UT employee? If so, you can give to any University area through payroll deduction. Log on to UT Direct using your EID and password. On the right side of the page, scroll down to “Personal Info” and click on the “Giving to UT” link. The page for making gifts through payroll deduction to UT will appear. Make your selections and click on “Submit.” Payroll deduction for a gift made by the 15th of the month will begin the following month; e.g., the first deduction for a gift made on June 10 will appear on your July 1 paycheck. Payroll deduction for a gift made after the 15th of the month will begin the second month following the gift; e.g., the first deduction for a gift made on June 20 will appear on your August 1 paycheck. The deductions will be reflected in your Payroll Earnings Statement under “Charitable Contributions.” Student Campaigns Student campaigns are a way to leave a legacy to future students—just like alumni left a legacy for you. There are a number of student campaigns that need your contribution, including the BBA/MPA Legacy Campaign, the BHP Make a Mark Campaign, and the MBA, EMBA and TEMBA Legacy Campaigns. Please contact Colin Haymes at 512-471-3992 or Colin.Haymes@mccombs.utexas.edu for more information. Federal EIN: 74-6000203-C Mail checks (payable to The University of Texas at Austin) to: The University of Texas at Austin McCombs School of Business ATTN: Development and External Relations 2110 Speedway, Mail Stop B6006 Austin, TX 78712-1270 Resources McCombs Online Resources (MOR) Webmail Safety at McCombs Intranet Canvas Tech Support My McCombs What's Happening News Events Big Ideas Research Give Now Get in Touch Contact Marketing, Web, and Communications Faculty Directory Staff Directory Give Now (512) 471-5921 2110 Speedway Austin, TX 78712 Rowling Hall 300 W Martin Luther King Jr Blvd Austin, TX 78712 © 2021 McCombs School of Business, The University of Texas at Austin