COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Student Resources Section Menu HelpDesk Home Page Call HelpDesk Computer/Software Purchase Resources for Remote Work Student Resources Faculty Resources Frequently Asked Questions Mathematica WSU Help Desk SLA Disposal Procedure WSU Student Resources List of resources available for Wichita State University students. Some of the resources listed are available for a limited time due to the COVID-19 situation. Accessing Your Student Email Accessing Student Email Request for Chromebook For students who don't have access to a computer, there are a limited number of Chromebooks available. Submit a request using the link below. If you do not have internet access, contact WSU Help Desk at 316-978-HELP, Option 1 to submit a request. View the requirements and submit a request What are the Specs I need for a Computer/Laptop Here are some recommendations to make sure you are able to access what you need: Windows and Mac: Minimum Core i5, 8GB, 128-256GB storage with integrated webcam / mic. Chromebooks: Minimum 4GB RAM and 32 GB storage with webcam / mic. Please note: there are some known issues with Chromebooks using a program called Respondus for some courses. Please check with your instructor to find out if they will be using Respondus for their courses. The Shocker Store offers a variety of options with educational discounts. Other information that is available in this area would be really helpful as well Step 1: Check Your Tech (wichita.edu) Computer Purchase with Discount Apple Apple Back To School Discount Dell Dell Computer Discount HP For Student Academy: The following link was generated to advance our scholastic consumer database as we continue to reinvent our Student Academy program. www.hpdirect.com/member/HP_Academy Register: 1. Click Academy shopping link 2. REGISTER as New Customer 3. Complete initial First/Last/Email/Password to Create HP.com account. Validate not a robot, click SIGN UP button at bottom. 4. EPP landing page for Academy loads, with pre-populated EP25124 company code and the First/Last/Email from previous page. 5. My Account page loads to confirm consumer is properly associated with HP EPP tier, initiating the discount pricing UX within the Store. 6. Upon successful registration you will be directed to the discount storefront, and will view strike thru pricing noted for each qualifying sku. Discounts are auto-applied; no codes are required unless you opt in to receive our weekly consumer HP.com emails which may have special offer requiring a coupon code at checkout. Microsoft Student WebStore LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning is now available to all Wichita State University students. Discover how this all-in-one learning solution can enhance your education, add value to your academic program/course, or help you learn a new skill to advance your career! How to Access LinkedIn Learning SPSS/AMOS For students who cannot be on campus, or while away from their WSU computer or lab, ITS offers an authorized access version of SPSS/AMOS. This option allows you to install SPSS/AMOS on your home computer. The license expires each year on June 30. If you wish to continue using SPSS/AMOS while employed, or as an active student at WSU beyond the June 30 expiration, you will need to obtain a new license. The following instructions are on how to obtain the SPSS/AMOS license and download the software: Log in to the myWSU Portal (myWSU.wichita.edu). For the student: SPSS is located under the Home Tab: Student Tools/Software. Click SPSS/Amos Download & Licensing Instructions before downloading SPSS Adobe Students can receive the educational discount on the purchase of Adobe Creative Cloud for $19.99 monthly. Adobe Creative Cloud Purchase Zoom Zoom proves to be a versatile and easy-to-use solution for digital learning at WSU allowing for online meetings and collaboration. For information on how you can request access and how to use Zoom, click the link below. Zoom ArcGIS for Students Students can request access to ArcGIS planning software for academic use. For information on how you can request access click the link below. ArcGIS Office 365 Included in Microsoft Office 365: OneNote Word PowerPoint Excel OneDrive for Business Outlook / Email Access (Windows only) Publisher (Windows only) TEAMS OneDrive (1TB Storage) How to Access and Download AccessLink: http://o365.wichita.edu UserName: myWSUID@wichita.edu Password: current myWSU password Click on "Install Office" at the upper right side. Microsoft Office Training for Students Students can access Office 365 for free through myWSU. Click the link below for several Microsoft training options available to students. MS Office Training for Students Teams Teams is an online meeting and collaboration tool available through Office 365. For further information, click the link below. Teams Windows 10 Education For information on how you can request access click the link below. Windows 10 Education Information for Current and Prospective Students Click the link below for helpful links, including Payment information, Important Dates, and Parking. Current & Prospective Students VPN Setup Windows/PC Windows/PC Apple/Mac Apple/Mac Engineering Software Ansys Software Availability of this application will be announced prior to the Fall semester. Click on the link below for access to Ansys software. Then: Select Ansys student Select Download Ansys Student 2020 R1 Ansys Software Autodesk Students and educators can get free one-year educational access to Autodesk products and services, renewable as long as you remain eligible. Confirm Your Eligibility: Autodesk MSC Nastran, Patran Availability of this application will be announced prior to the Fall semester. Click on the link below, then follow these instructions: Select Register. Complete the form. Add photo of your shocker card. Press Submit. Activate account through confirmation email, then wait for download instructions: this may take 2-3 days. MSC Nastran, Patran LabVIEW Availability of this application will be announced prior to the Fall semester. Click on the link below for LabVIEW LabVIEW Engineering Students: Remote Instructions Engineering: Remote Instructions Additional Links Blackboard Panopto Questions? Contact Help Desk 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, Kansas 67260 helpdesk@wichita.edu 316-978-HELP, Option 1 Help Desk main page The following link will help guide students through the following topics: necessary technologies, working in Blackboard, using necessary computer applications, and becoming a successful remote student. Remote Student Support Pages 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©