Indoor face covering requirements reinstated through June 13. More COVID-19 information. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply UC Riverside University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside Search About About Overview Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Find Information for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges and Schools UCR Extension Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost Veteran Admissions Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Research Research Overview Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Library Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Campus Life Campus Life Overview Events Campus Map Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety Botanic Gardens Housing Dining About Riverside Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply Current Students Breadcrumb Current Students See What’s Possible At UC Riverside students of every background and ambition, from first-generation college-goers to dedicated graduate researchers, are encouraged to dream big — and achieve their dreams. Our students make our campus community a great place to live, learn, and grow — sharing their ideas, identities, and sense of what’s possible to help propel us forward in the dynamic digital and cultural space of an increasingly interconnected world. UC Riverside offers its undergraduate students more than 80 majors, providing plenty of options to pursue the subject matter about which they are most passionate. And our drop-in tutoring and study lounges designed to accommodate a variety of learning styles, and impressive research library — one of the largest in the nation — ensure our students have everything they need to achieve their academic goals. Academic Resource Center All of the tools you need to succeed in your college classes can be found right here on campus. The Academic Resource Center is comprised of educators, counselors and advanced students who are here to help you grow, learn and discover. Services available include: Drop in tutoring. Study skills. Supplemental Instruction. Fully equipped study lounges. Libraries UC Riverside libraries are among the largest academic research libraries in the United States, with one of the UC systems’ most complete collections. With over 2 million volumes, 28,000 print and electronic serial subscriptions, 1.7 million microforms, 300,000 government information sources, and access to 165,000 e-books, we’re ready to connect you with the resources you need, right when you need them. Majors, Minors, and Programs Within our three schools (Bourns College of Engineering, College of Humanities, Arts and Sciences, and College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences), the university offers majors ranging from art to anthropology, botany to business administration, English to environmental science, and mechanical engineering to music. UC Riverside isn't just a world-class university, it's your college of choice. Find out more about our academic programs. Taking Education to the Next Level As the top-ranked university in the nation for social mobility (U.S. News 2020), UC Riverside is committed to helping students take their education to the next level. Across the board at UCR, challenging courses, interdisciplinary research opportunities, and inspiring faculty — including two Nobel Prize winners, and 13 members of the National Academies of Science and Medicine — take students on a journey of innovation and growth. With opportunities to participate in our University Honors program, take immersive summer sessions, or study across the globe, Highlanders connect with like-minded individuals who help to shape one another’s futures through shared curiosity, creativity, and community impact. The experience they gain benefits them as students and beyond — CNBC ranked UCR in the Top 10 colleges that pay off the most in big cities. Summer Study Abroad Program Experience spending the summer abroad while staying on track to graduate! UCR’s Summer Study Abroad Program offers UCR general catalog courses taught by UCR faculty in an international location. Including 5 weeks of cultural immersion while you deepen your learning, a global adventure awaits. Learn more about this unique opportunity to spend your summer studying abroad. Education Abroad Program and Opportunities Abroad Program Join more than 4,500 University of California students who live and learn across the globe. Offered in partnership with more than 140 universities in 35 countries, UCR’s unparalleled Education Abroad Program and Opportunities Abroad Programs offer exciting opportunities to deepen your studies, expand your perspective, and become immersed in cultural experiences you’ll never forget. UC Center at Sacramento Take advantage of hands-on learning and research opportunities in California's public policy arena through the UC Center at Sacramento. There are two integrated programs offered, academic policy and journalism, to help enrich your professional success. Chosen applicants will live and learn in Sacramento through an internship within the Capitol's policy community. Learn more about this resume-building, life-changing opportunity. At Your Service As one of the most self-sustained campuses in the UC system, UC Riverside is committed to providing our students a full spectrum of services to elevate their university experience. These services range from keeping our students safe and well on campus to ensuring their UCR education is financially attainable — Business Insider even ranked us No. 2 among top-tier universities for financial aid. Campus Safety At UCR, your safety is our priority. Campus Safety Escort Service, the Campus Emergency Notification System and Environmental Health and Safety are here to keep our campus and students safe 24/7. Career Center UC Riverside’s Career Center provides students and alumni with access to an extensive job database, career counseling, resume advice and interview coaching, as well as workshop and job fair alerts. Early Childhood Services Early Childhood Services provides a safe, nurturing environment for the children of UCR students, staff and faculty. The center has programs for children ages 4 months to kindergarten. UCR Dining, Hospitality & Retail Services UCR Dining, Hospitality & Retail Services provides the campus with great food, as well as a variety of locations to relax, socialize and study. From the dining halls to our retail locations, we offer high-quality and healthy dining options in friendly, welcoming environments. UCR Dining, Hospitality & Retail Services provides the campus with great food, as well as a variety of locations to relax, socialize and study. From the dining halls to our retail locations, we offer high-quality and healthy dining options in friendly, welcoming environments. Ethnic & Gender Programs The Ethnic and Gender Program Offices feature student support services, community involvement initiatives, multi-cultural events and leadership training. These engaging opportunities allow students to explore cultural growth and development, and to build the skills required to lead and succeed in a diverse world. African Student Programs Asian Pacific Student Programs Chicano Student Programs LGBT Resource Center Middle Eastern Student Center Native American Student Programs Women's Resource Center Health, Fitness, and Wellbeing Among students, staff and faculty alike, UCR promotes a vibrant, healthy and balanced lifestyle. We have several integrated wellness programs that foster a culture of health and wellness and encourage activities that help you achieve optimal quality of life. Housing Services UCR Housing Services provides students with safe, convenient housing to help you establish your college community. We offer three housing styles — residence halls, campus apartments and family housing — to meet the needs of all UCR students. Each housing type provides countless opportunities to participate in activities that enrich your college experience. Our on-call housing staff, supported by the campus police force, are committed to providing our residents with a friendly, secure environment. International Services The International Resources website features a variety of resources for students seeking information on international programs here at UCR, as well as other opportunities around the globe. Financial Aid 86% of our students use financial aid, both undergraduate and graduate populations, for the duration of their tenure here at UCR. Learn more about financial aid at UCR. UCR Campus Store The UCR Campus Store is your best choice for textbooks and UCR merchandise. You’ll find the complete booklist for all of your classes, as well as the largest selection of UCR apparel, school spirit items and gifts. Visit CompUCR for tech gear that supports your campus life, from electronics to computers to software and supplies! R'Card Your R’Card is your single most important piece of student identification. This multi-purpose ID allows you to: Verify your identity on campus and in the community. Pay for meals. Borrow books from the library. Gain access to the Student Recreation Center (SRC). Get into UCR home athletic events. Gain access to some campus buildings. Make purchases on campus using “Bear Bucks.” Use vending machines, laundry services, and copy machines. Ride the Riverside Transit Agency bus for free. Use registrar services. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 1156 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webteam@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Return UCR Admissions UCR News Colleges and Schools Graduate Division UCR Jobs UCR Health Giving Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel