Skip to main content Penn Home A-Z Directory Emergency Policies Webmail Search query Search Menu Menu Search Health & Wellness Student Health Service Wellness Partners Counseling and Psychological Services Alcohol and Other Drug Initiatives Student Disabilities Services Campus Health Student Intervention Services Penn Violence Prevention CAPS Home Counseling and Psychological Services Previous Photo Next Photo About this photo Close Counseling and Psychological Services Home COVID-19 Stress, Distress, & Crisis Warning Signs for Suicide Helping Yourself Helping Others Get Help Now Stress, Distress, & Crisis Tips & Tools Self-care Psychiatry Group Program Outreach Let’s Talk I CARE Training STTOP International Student Programs and Resources Clinical Training Programs Referral Services Leave of Absence Policies Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Staff Directory The Student Health and Counseling offices will close at 2 pm on Friday, May 27. 24/7 support is still available by calling 215-898-7021. Student Health and Counseling: Counseling Services You may be experiencing a range of emotions as you adjust to new classes, make new friends, and for some, find your way around a new campus. As you navigate your time at Penn, we hope that you will make your mental health and well-being a priority. Our counseling services are part of Wellness at Penn, and we are here to support you throughout your Penn experience. We are committed to creating an affirming environment based on our values of multicultural, multi-disciplinary and inclusive practices, focused on providing care to our diverse student body. Call us if you need support; do not wait. ~We Are Available for You~ 24/7 Support: Call 215-898-7021 and press 1 to talk to a clinician 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Summer Office Hours: Monday – Friday: 9:00 AM – 4:30 PM Closed during evenings and weekends. *Students can drop-in and meet with a clinician during regular business hours* *Our counseling services are located at 3624 Market Street, First Floor West. Please bring your Penn ID* *All services are available via telehealth and in-person* ~Let’s Talk~ No appointment drop-in service on campus. For hours and locations go to the Let’s Talk page. ~Staying Healthy is Our Priority~ The University’s Public Health Guidance continues to evolve based on the COVID-19 data and positivity rates on campus, in our surrounding communities and across the region. We will continue to modify our guidance as we learn more about the effects of COVID-19 and its variants. The most up to date information on University operations and guidance can be found here: https://coronavirus.upenn.edu. To access in-person services at Student Counseling, please remember: Masking is required indoors for all, even those who are fully vaccinated. You will be required to keep your mask on during your appointment. A green PennOpen Pass is required for all, regardless of vaccination status. You will be asked to show your pass to the front desk staff when you enter our office. Please come in 5 minutes before your scheduled appointment. You will complete any paperwork on your computer or phone before meeting with a counselor. If you do not have a device to check-in, please ask the front desk staff for assistance. Stay home if you are feeling unwell and ask for a video or phone appointment from your counselor. Maintain (6 feet) physical distance from others whenever possible. Use good hand hygiene: Wash hands with soap and warm water for 20 seconds or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol. ~Coping With COVID-19~ Learn more on our page, Your Mental Health and COVID For a Guide for Penn Faculty for Supporting Students During COVID: Teaching & Supporting Mental Health Note to Parents/Guardians ~Wellness Resources~ Wellness at Penn Services Home COVID-19 Stress, Distress, & Crisis Warning Signs for Suicide Helping Yourself Helping Others Get Help Now Stress, Distress, & Crisis Tips & Tools Self-care Psychiatry Group Program Outreach Let’s Talk I CARE Training STTOP International Student Programs and Resources Clinical Training Programs Referral Services Leave of Absence Policies Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Staff Directory Follow CAPS on Facebook and Instagram! @wellnessatpenn on Facebook @wellnessatpenn on Instagram Comment Box Give CAPS FeedbackGo All feedback is anonymous. Sign-in required to prevent spam, but no user information is stored. If you seek response, you must provide your name or email. EMAIL wel-caps@pobox.upenn.edu Fax: 215-573-8966 Making History: The Campaign for Penn Helpful Links Academic Calendar Admissions Athletics Campus Maps College Houses Diversity at Penn Financial Aid Media Requests Penn News Public Safety Student Groups Work at Penn | Student Jobs © 2019 Counseling and Psychological Services at the University of Pennsylvania 3624 Market St. 1st Floor West, Philadelphia, PA 19104 1 (215) 898-7021 Contact CAPS Copyright | Privacy | Disclaimer | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help