By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About University Ombuds FAQs More from this Section About Us Our Services Our Mission University Ombuds FAQs What is an ombuds? How can the Office of the University Ombuds help me? What can the ombuds provide to help resolve conflict or concerns? Does the University ombuds divulge any information from confidential discussions? What is the difference between the Office of the University Ombuds and the Office of Human Resources in resolving conflicts? Why is the University ombuds important to the Syracuse University community? How do I make an appointment with the ombuds? What is an ombuds? Link Taken from the Swedish word Ombudsman, which roughly translates to “representative,” the Ombuds provides fair and equitable services and guidance to faculty, staff and graduate students. An Ombuds is often known as an “ear to the people.” How can the Office of the University Ombuds help me? Link The University ombuds provides an informal, confidential, neutral and independent resource to address concerns or questions openly without fear of retaliation or judgment from managers or peers. The University ombuds offers the following: A safe place to help faculty, staff and graduate students with matters that affect their individual experiences, including employment concerns, ethical issues and interpersonal disputes Guidance with University policies and procedures A range of options for each visitor, which may include simply listening, communication techniques, reframing concerns, developing options together and referrals to other offices or resources Workshops and presentations to individual offices and units that can highlight conflict-resolution techniques What can the ombuds provide to help resolve conflict or concerns? Link The ombuds may take any number of steps to responsibly address concerns raised, including the following means: Educating employees and graduate students on effective methods of de-escalating and resolving interpersonal conflicts Referring employees and graduate students to other University offices or services Coaching individuals in written and in-person communication techniques Explaining or clarifying University policies Assisting individuals in identifying personal goals Engaging in facilitated conversations or conflict resolution Does the University ombuds divulge any information from confidential discussions? Link The University ombuds does not share any information from confidential conversations with University faculty, staff or graduate students, unless there is an “imminent risk of harm.” The ombuds does not keep any permanent records relating to confidential conversations. The ombuds, who communicates directly with the Chancellor, provides confidential general reports to the Chancellor only to identify trends, advocates for systemic change in needed areas and shares the pulse of campus. What is the difference between the Office of the University Ombuds and the Office of Human Resources in resolving conflicts? Link The Office of the University Ombuds differs from other formal offices, such as the Office of Human Resources, the Office of Equal Opportunity Inclusion and Resolution Services, the Office of University Counsel, or Risk Management, which can investigate situations and enforce and set policies. The ombuds has no authority to take formal action in response to complaints, but will help identify formal options to help move toward resolution. The Office of the University Ombuds does not take the place of other formal offices but is a supplemental alternative to formal processes. Why is the University ombuds important to the Syracuse University community? Link The work of the ombuds helps further promote a supportive, respectful and inclusive campus community. How do I make an appointment with the ombuds? Link Email ombuds@syr.edu or call 315.443.1087 to request a confidential appointment. Do not include any confidential information in your email. The Office of the University Ombuds is located at 111 Waverly Ave., Suite 001. Pages in this Section About Us Neal Powless G’08 serves the campus community as a neutral, independent, informal and confidential resource for faculty, staff and graduate students who are seeking assistance to answer questions and resolve concerns. Our Mission The Office of the University Ombuds operates on four principles: Confidentiality, Independence, Neutrality and Informality. Our Services The Office of the University Ombuds provides a venue for complaints, conflicts or concerns that visitors do not wish to address through other official University channels. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy