Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Home About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Resources For Families Community of Learners Events Get Involved Give to the Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards Site Navigation Home For Participants About the Hassenfeld Study Hassenfeld Study: Leadership Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma ABC Study Project CARE RI AIR Hotspot Analysis Home Asthma Response Program Neighborhood Risk Autism Genetics PHOEBE Study Prospective Infant Behavioral Study Play and Autism RI-CART Healthy Weight Summer Weight Gain Pregnancy and Early Childhood Expanding Scope of Treatment Measuring Overweight and Obesity The Hassenfeld Study Postpartum Cohort Prenatal Cohort Injury and Poisoning Neighborhood Disparities in Lead Poisoning Lead & Prematurity Fall-related Injuries Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use Frequent ED Use ED Use & Insurance Coverage Traumatic Brain Injury Burns Resources For Families English Español Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series Past events and webinars Get Involved Give to the Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards The Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute holds an annual competitive application process for its Child Health Innovation Awards. These awards are made possible through the generous support of the Hassenfeld family. In addition to requesting funding support, applicants may request technical assistance and collaboration from the Hassenfeld Child Health Institute’s Core Research and Evaluation Unit. The institute is looking to partner with community organizations, including nonprofit groups and government entities (local, state, school departments and individual schools, etc.) with innovative ideas to address maternal and child health disparities in Rhode Island. We are particularly looking for proposals that address health disparities and inequities, as well as addressing social determinants of health and social justice. If Rhode Island is to become the healthiest place in the world for children, we must focus our efforts on communities facing the greatest health burdens. The deadline to apply for the fall 2021 awards is 9 a.m. Wednesday, June 30, 2021. More information about the awards, including application instructions, can be found here. Past Recipients There were two Innovation Award recipients in 2018. Alison Field, ScD and co-investigator Graham Thomas, PhD, have received the innovation award for their project titled "Understanding the Influence of Dietary Intake during Pregnancy." Patricia Risica, DrPH has also received the innovation award for her project titled "Sleep, Stress, Depressive Symptoms and Other Determinants of Infant Feeding." The 2017 Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Award recipient is Sarah Davis, MD, Assistant Professor in Maternal-Fetal Medicine at Women & Infants Hospital and the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Her project is entitled "Maternal and Fetal Telomere Length, Timing of Delivery, and Racial/Socioeconomic Disparities." There were two Innovation Award recipients in 2016. Kevin Bath, PhD and Dima Amso, PhD received support for their project "Neural Mechanisms by Which Socioeconomic Status Shapes Brain Development." Michael Mello, MD, MPH, FACEP - with co-investigators Dina Burstein , MD, MPH, CPSTI, FAAP; Patricia Flanagan, MD; James G. Linakis, PhD, MD; Megan L. Ranney, MD, MPH, FACEP; and Mark R. Zonfrillo, MD, MSCE - also received an Innovation Award for the project mSafety – Preliminary Work for a Text and Video Messaging Home Safety Intervention for Teen Mothers. Get Involved Give to the Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Brown University Box G S 121-4 121 South Main Street, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3855 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Info for study participants Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top