Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links UW Urology About the Department of Urology Message from the Chair Administrative Staff Open Positions Patient care Men’s Health Center Kidney Stone Center Pelvic Health Center Conditions and treatments Research Genitourinary Cancer Research Lab Institute for Prostate Cancer Research (IPCR) Institute for Prostate Cancer Report to the Community 2021 The WWAMI Institute for Simulation in Healthcare (WISH) The Comparison of Intravesical Therapy and Surgery as Treatment Options (CISTO) Black and African-Descent Collaborative for Prostate Cancer ACtion (BACPAC) Education Medical Students Residency Fellowships Men’s Health People Department Chair Faculty Urology Residents Clinical Urology Fellows Alumni Outreach Calendar Paul H. Lange Endowed Lectureship in Urology News Department of Urology Menu UW Urology About the Department of Urology Message from the Chair Administrative Staff Open Positions Patient care Men’s Health Center Kidney Stone Center Pelvic Health Center Conditions and treatments Research Genitourinary Cancer Research Lab Institute for Prostate Cancer Research (IPCR) Institute for Prostate Cancer Report to the Community 2021 The WWAMI Institute for Simulation in Healthcare (WISH) The Comparison of Intravesical Therapy and Surgery as Treatment Options (CISTO) Black and African-Descent Collaborative for Prostate Cancer ACtion (BACPAC) Education Medical Students Residency Fellowships Men’s Health People Department Chair Faculty Urology Residents Clinical Urology Fellows Alumni Outreach Calendar Paul H. Lange Endowed Lectureship in Urology News Home Department of Urology Department of Urology Close Menu Home Administrative Staff Clinical Urology Fellows Cystectomy Department Chair Department of Urology About the Department of Urology Message from the Chair Open Positions Education Sub-Internship Town Hall Videos Training Verification Medical Students Clerkships Diversity Visiting Student Sub-Internship Program Visiting Student Sub-Internship Program Residency Alumni Information for Interested Applicants Residency Program Aims Salary and Benefits Urology Residents How to Apply Residency Research Fellowships Andrology Endourology Pediatric Urology Trauma and Reconstruction Fellowship Urological Oncology Erectile Dysfunction FAQ for Pelvic Health PT Institute for Prostate Cancer Research (IPCR) Institute for Prostate Cancer Report to the Community 2021 Interstitial Cystitis Kidney Cancer Kidney Stone Center Kidney Stones Kidney Stones Male Infertility Men’s Health Calendar Men’s Health Campaign Council Members Podcasts Minimally Invasive Vasectomy Nephrectomy- Partial and Robot Assisted News Outreach Paul H. Lange Endowed Lectureship in Urology Pelvic Organ or Vaginal Prolapse Penile Prosthesis Penile Ultrasound and Doppler Penis cancer People Prostatectomy Prostatitis Retroperitoneal Lymph Node Dissection Robotic-Assisted Laparoscopic Radical Prostatectomy Sites of Practice Sling Procedures for Incontinence Surgical Sperm Retrieval Testicular Cancer Testicular Mapping The WWAMI Institute for Simulation in Healthcare (WISH) Transurethral Resection of the Prostate Trauma and Reconstruction Fellowship Graduates Urethral Diverticulum Urethral Stricture Urinary Tract Infection Urologic Stone Treatments UW Urology at Tough Mudder Vasectomy reversal Patient care Pelvic Health Center Men’s Health Center Conditions and treatments Research Genitourinary Cancer Research Lab Working to solve the most difficult urological problems and train the next generation of surgeons and scientists. Patient Care Our experts see patients with a range of urological conditions at the top hospitals in the region. Education UW Urology has two residency tracks, five fellowships, and multiple sub-internships. Research The Department of Urology has an outstanding research program that is at the core of its mission. Recent News UW Urology Newsletter: Spring Quarter 2022 May 17, 2022 Message From The Chair Dr. Claire Yang, Professor of Urology and Interim Department ChairUWUrology Dear friends and colleagues: During my time as a faculty member and now in my role as acting chair, I have had the opportunity to see the expanse and influence of the department. When I joined UW Urology in 1993, there… Read more Black History Month and UW Urology: Glover Barnes, PhD February 26, 2022 UW Urology celebrates Black History Month by remembering Glover W. Barnes, PhD (1923-2010) the first Black research faculty member in the department. Dr. Barnes grew up in Birmingham, AL, leaving the South after World War II to study at Akron University, where he earned a bachelor’s degree in biology in 1949. He then earned his… Read more Celebrating 2022 Thank a Resident Day February 25, 2022 Our Residents are an integral part of the Department of Urology. Today is Thank a Resident Day and we would like to join Acting Chair, Dr. Claire Yang in thanking our residents for all the work they do. To the UW Urology Residents: Thanks for being the awesome people that you are! Your commitment to… Read more When A UTI Gets Serious, You Need A Urologist February 23, 2022 Urinary tract infections, or UTIs, are very common. Most common are simple bladder infections, also known as simple cystitis. About 10 in 25 women, and 3 in 25 men will suffer from a UTI at some point in their lifetime. While painful, they will generally clear up with a short course of antibiotics. However, in… Read more UW Urology Newsletter - Winter Quarter 2022 January 5, 2022 Message from the Chair Dr. Claire Yang, Professor of Urology and Interim Department Chair Dear Colleagues and Friends, What a beginning to the new year! The close of 2021 brought snow and cold temperatures, disrupting holiday travel plans and exacerbating staff shortages in the hospitals. Both figuratively and literally, we greeted 2022 digging out of… Read more 2023 – 2024 UW Urology Fellowship Applications Now Open January 4, 2022 As we welcome in the new year, the Department of Urology is continuing to search for the best and brightest fellows who are interested in making impacts within Andrology, Genitourinary Reconstructive Surgery (GURS), Urologic Oncology, and Endourology. While the Andrology and Genitourinary Reconstructive surgery fellowships are a year long, the Urologic Oncology and Endourology positions… Read more Dr. Wessells Receives Renewed Funding to Help Understand Mechanisms of Bladder Dysfunction Study in Patients with Type 1 Diabetes November 29, 2021 In continuation of a collaboration that began in 2008, Dr. Hunter Wessells, Professor and Nelson Chair of the Urology Department at the University of Washington alongside Dr. Aruna Sarma, Professor at the University of Michigan received funding from the National Institute of Diabetes, Digestive, and Kidney Diseases to seek deeper understanding of bladder control problems… Read more Home Administrative Staff Clinical Urology Fellows Cystectomy Department Chair Department of Urology About the Department of Urology Message from the Chair Open Positions Education Sub-Internship Town Hall Videos Training Verification Medical Students Clerkships Diversity Visiting Student Sub-Internship Program Visiting Student Sub-Internship Program Residency Alumni Information for Interested Applicants Residency Program Aims Salary and Benefits Urology Residents How to Apply Residency Research Fellowships Andrology Endourology Pediatric Urology Trauma and Reconstruction Fellowship Urological Oncology Erectile Dysfunction FAQ for Pelvic Health PT Institute for Prostate Cancer Research (IPCR) Institute for Prostate Cancer Report to the Community 2021 Interstitial Cystitis Kidney Cancer Kidney Stone Center Kidney Stones Kidney Stones Male Infertility Men’s Health Calendar Men’s Health Campaign Council Members Podcasts Minimally Invasive Vasectomy Nephrectomy- Partial and Robot Assisted News Outreach Paul H. Lange Endowed Lectureship in Urology Pelvic Organ or Vaginal Prolapse Penile Prosthesis Penile Ultrasound and Doppler Penis cancer People Prostatectomy Prostatitis Retroperitoneal Lymph Node Dissection Robotic-Assisted Laparoscopic Radical Prostatectomy Sites of Practice Sling Procedures for Incontinence Surgical Sperm Retrieval Testicular Cancer Testicular Mapping The WWAMI Institute for Simulation in Healthcare (WISH) Transurethral Resection of the Prostate Trauma and Reconstruction Fellowship Graduates Urethral Diverticulum Urethral Stricture Urinary Tract Infection Urologic Stone Treatments UW Urology at Tough Mudder Vasectomy reversal Patient care Pelvic Health Center Men’s Health Center Conditions and treatments Research Genitourinary Cancer Research Lab Sign up for Email Updates Click here Support Urology Every day, UW Medicine makes a difference in the lives of our patients and families. At our hospitals and clinics, we help them move from difficult diagnoses toward brighter, healthier futures. Read more Follow us on Social! UW Urology Twitter Feed @WessellsHunter Thanks faculty and staff in the Nuffield Dept of Surgery who made for a productive mini sabbatical @UniofOxford! Capped by a special dinner with my host and friend Freddie Hamdy and our wives amidst the greenery of springtime. Focus, focus, focus on the big problems in Urology! https://t.co/E8jslalCXb Retweeted by @uwurology @UwMenshealth Click the link to tune in! https://t.co/BSoBDEuhkX @UWMedicine @SantiagoNeme @OurSeattlePride #menshealthmonthly @933KJR Retweeted by @uwurologyMore Looking for a Sub Internship? Check out our Town Hall videos in leiu of in person Sub I's or reach out to our education team with questions or for more information at urores@uw.edu or 206-685-1982. Check out our Town Hall videos here Train with the best UW Urology's residency and fellowship programs are among the best in the nation. We offer two residency tracks and four fellowships in pediatric urology, urological oncology, andrology and reconstructive urology. Learn more and apply Men's Health Center The Men's Health Center at UW-Roosevelt takes a multidisciplinary team approach to resolving issues of male sexual and reproductive health to find solutions for complex conditions. Read more Our Clinics Call For an Appointment: Urology Clinic at UW Medical Center Montlake 206-598-4294 Men’s Health Center at UW Medical Center Roosevelt 206-598-6358 Kidney Stone Center at UW Medical Center Northwest 206-668-5215 Urology Clinic at UW Medical Center Northwest 206-668-8555 Pelvic Health Center at UW Medical Center Northwest 206-668-4477 Urology Clinic at Harborview Medical Center 206-744-3241 Urology Clinic at Eastside Specialty Center 425-646-7777 Seattle Cancer Care Alliance 206-606-7222 Seattle Children’s Hospital 206-987-2509 University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA