Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University The Office of the Registrar Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Course Catalog Forms Home Welcome Our Mission Contact Us Students General Information Student Forms Degree Planning Academic Classification Cancelled Courses/Sections Catalog & Degree Programs Course Descriptions Course Prerequisites Cross-Listed Courses Permission Required Courses Restricted Courses/Sections Schedule of Classes (Online Search) Schedule of Classes (PDF) Schedule of Classes (Search Tips) Using the University Catalog (Video) How to Run a Degree Audit (Students) Registration Getting Started with Registration AccessPlus Registration Process AccessPlus Registration Process (Video) Add/Drop (Schedule Changes) Auditing Courses Cancel Registration Consortium Holds Credit Limits Full-Time/Part-Time Status Schedule Planner/Class Search How to Use Schedule Planner Registration Start Dates Registration Holds Pass/Not Pass Grading Student Schedule Change Form - Tutorial Degree Audit How to Run a Degree Audit (Students) FAQ Reentry, Returning Students Reinstatement after Academic Dismissal Reentering or Returning Graduate Students Reentering or Returning International Students Reentering or Returning Undergraduate Students Transfer Students Reverse Credit Transfer Transfer Credit Evaluation Distance Education Exams Fall Night Exams Fall Final Exams Spring Final Exams Spring Night Exams Dead Week Grades Grade Reports on AccessPlus Grading System/Scale GPA Calculator Dean's List & Honoraries FAQs Deans List Release Veterans Education Benefits Types of Benefits Frequently Asked Questions Additional Veterans Resources Post Secondary Enrollment (PSEO) Frequently Asked Questions Textbook & Fee Information Order an Official Transcript Verification/Proof of Enrollment Full & Half Time Status Good Student Discount Business & Professional Organizations Academic Withdrawal Standard Withdrawal Medical Withdrawal Medical Documentation Guidelines Medical Withdrawal Sample Provider Letters Out of Term Withdrawal Tuition Appeal Withdrawal Terminology Withdrawal Policy Individuals Involved with Withdrawals U.S. Diversity and International Perspectives International Perspective Courses U.S. Diversity Courses Honors Seminars Approved Transfer Courses Archived Lists IP Credit for Veterans Other Resources Campus Builidings Soar in 4 Textbook Information Registrar Video Library Faculty & Staff General Information ADIN Schedule Guide Dean's List Department Test-Outs Enrollment Statistics Graduation Lists Schedule Changes Schedule of Classes (PDFs) Registrar Contact Information Catalog & Course Editing (yearly) Timeline College Reports Guides & Tutorials Quick Links Catalog & Courses Course Description Guidelines Objections Catalog Editor Checklist Catalog Editing Handouts and Presentations Summer Editing Course Offerings Information Class Lists AccessPlus Grade Reporting Create an Email List Degree Audit Advisor Instructions Grade Processing Fianl Grade Submit and Class List Information Grade Report Forms Grade Report Tutorial F Grade Processing Advisor Graduation Information Advisor Early Degree Audit Review for Graduating Seniors Early Degree Audit Review Dates Student Records Policies FERPA - Training FERPA - Sharing Student Information (PII) FERPA - What Faculty and Staff Need to Know Systems Access Codebook Department Contacts Faculty & Staff Forms Administrative Schedule Change Form Tutorial Student Schedule Change Form Tutorial Access to Student Systems Mass Email Request Registrar Data Request Academic Calendars Academic Calendar University Calendar Department Dates (2021-2022) Department Dates (2022-2023) Academic Dates to 2027 Registration Start Dates Past Calendars Department Dates (2020-2021) Department Dates (2019-2020) Department Dates (2018-2019) Department Dates (2016-2018) Department Dates (2015-2017) Calendar Principles Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Mandatory Fees Program Specific Fees Course Fees Tuition Adjustment Deadlines Tuition FAQs Expenses Estimator Financial Aid Billing and Payments Previous Term Fees Fee Exceptions Graduation Resources Enrollment Statistics University Summary Enrollment by Major or Department Multicultural Summary Sex, Ethnicity & Residence Reports Headcount & FTE Policies FERPA Training FERPA Classroom Recordings FERPA - Sharing Student Information (PII) AccessPlus & Confidentiality Name and Sex Marker Change Policies Forms Student Forms Faculty & Staff Forms Residency Application for Admission & Tuition AccessPlus Information Academic Help Academic Success Center Academic Help & Appeals Academic Probation Policy Writing & Media Center Veterans Center DMACC/ISU Cross Enrollment Program Requirements The following information is for Iowa State University undergraduate students who may be interested in the program: The purpose of the DMACC/Iowa State University Cross Enrollment Program is to provide full-time undergraduate students at both institutions the opportunity to enroll in one class, for credit, without paying tuition at the partner institution. Requirements for students: payment of tuition and fees for those courses taken at the home institution, plus any special course fees at the host institution if applicable. full time enrollment status in ISU courses for the duration of the term enrolled in the DMACC course. Failure to do so, may result in the student being dropped from the DMACC course. Students registered under this agreement will be extended the use of the host institutions libraries, computer labs, and other student services. Credit earned at the host institution will be considered transfer credit at the home institution. Eligibility Requirements Full-time undergraduate ISU students who have completed a minimum of 12 semester hours of 100 level courses (excluding the English 101 series) and are in good academic standing (2.00 or better cumulative grade point average and not on academic probation at ISU are eligible to participate in the Cross Enrollment Program. ALEKS Math Placement Exam is required for any student who wants to take a Math course at DMACC. This exam must be taken prior to the submission of the Cross Enrollment Application & Registration form. To verify if you need to take the ALEKS Math placement exam please contact the Scheduling and Fees Office at schedfees@iastate.edu or 515-294-2331. Fifty (50) students from Iowa State University may enroll under the Cross Enrollment Program at Des Moines Area Community College each term. Students may enroll at DMACC in one course per academic year (summer term not included) under this Agreement, space permitting. Enrollment will be on a first-come, first-served basis. Deadlines- DMACC Fall 2021 Cross Enrollment Registration Opens APRIL 5 Cross Enrollment Deadline to Accept Request Forms AUGUST 18 Semester Begins AUGUST 25 Labor Day Holiday SEPTEMBER 6, CLOSED Thanksgiving Break NO CLASS NOV 24 (offices open). CLOSED NOVEMBER 25-26 Semester Ends DECEMBER 16 Students View Grades DECEMBER 22 at noon Student Registration Checklist The DMACC Cross Enrollment Application and Registration form (for undergraduate ISU students registering at DMACC) should be used by students requesting registration in a DMACC course under the DMACC/ISU Cross Enrollment Agreement. _____STEP 1: In order to participate in this Program, you must be a full-time undergraduate student at Iowa State. Once you are registered as full-time AND if you meet the above eligibility requirements, obtain a copy of the DMACC Cross Enrollment Application and Registration form (for ISU students registering at DMACC)from the Student Services Office in your College or download the DMACC Cross Enrollment form from this website. _____STEP 2: Meet with your ISU advisor to select your DMACC course. You are encouraged to select MORE THAN ONE course in case your first choice is not available. On the Cross Enrollment form, list courses in priority order, beginning with your first choice. If you choose course(s) that are full or canceled, DMACC will notify ISU. ISU’s Registrar’s Office will then notify you that your form could not be processed. You may start the registration process over at this time, beginning with Step 1, space permitting. Discuss, with your advisor, how the DMACC course will transfer back to ISU and how it will be applied toward meeting your degree requirements. Check to make sure you meet the prerequisites for the course(s) you are requesting to take at DMACC. Complete the Cross Enrollment form and obtain your advisor’s signature on the form. Note: This Program does not waive the graduation residence requirement which states that an ISU student must take his/her final 32 credits at Iowa State University. Six of the last 32 credits may be transferred to Iowa State University, with prior written permission from the student’s major department. _____STEP 3: Take the Cross Enrollment form to your college student services office. Your college student services office will verify that you meet certain eligibility requirements for participation in this Cross Enrollment Program. Once verified, your college student services office will sign and date your Cross Enrollment form. _____STEP 4: Take your Cross Enrollment form to the Office of the Registrar tuition and fees area, 10 Enrollment Services Center. ISU’s Office of the Registrar will forward your form to DMACC’s Student Records Office for processing. Note: It is important to complete this form as early as possible, since the Cross Enrollment Program is limited to fifty (50) participants. Completing this form does not guarantee enrollment. DMACC will register you for the course if space is available. You will be notified of your enrollment status by Des Moines Area Community College prior to the start of the respective semester. Office of the Registrar Office of the Registrar 214 Enrollment Services Center 2433 Union Dr. Ames, IA 50011-2042 registrar@iastate.edu 515-294-1840 - Phone 515-686-6022- Fax Facebook Twitter Youtube Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information