Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift International Services Welcome, we are glad you are here! All Clemson students, faculty and staff must comply with Clemson University's Spring 2022 state-wide, indoor mask mandate and the COVID-19 testing requirements as stated on the University's COVID-19 website. International Services, within the Office of Global Engagement, exists to ensure all international students, scholars, and faculty feel welcome at Clemson University. We celebrate the diversity of academics, research, and culture that students from all over the world bring to Clemson University. As such, our goal is to help you achieve your academic, professional, and personal goals. We do this by providing the following to all who choose to work, to study, and to call Clemson University home: Timely and accurate immigration advising for F/J students and scholars. Programming specific to students interested in applying for Curricular Practical Training (CPT), Option Practical Training (OPT), STEM OPT, and Academic Training. Advising and filing of H1B applications for eligible Clemson faculty and scholars. A comprehensive orientation program for new international students and scholars each fall and spring semester. Assistance and information on adapting to American academic and social culture. Through the Office of Global Engagement's English Language Program, there are opportunities to engage with American students as conversation partners and the sharing of culture. International Services is here and available to help you. Our office is located in 108 Long Hall. We can be reached via email at is@clemson.edu, by phone at 864-656-3614, or by coming in-person to our office. We are here Monday-Friday from 8am-4:30pm and offer immigration advising, via Zoom, Monday-Thursday from 1-4pm. Our team is ready to assist in answering any questions you may have. We continuously monitor all updates from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Department of State, and the Student and Exchange Visitor Program, etc. to keep you best informed. For the most up-to-date guidance, please check here. Thank you for choosing Clemson University. Go Tigers! Most Recent Immigration Updates from International Services and U.S. Government International Student Arrival Guide iStart Student Portal Calendar Home International Students Innovation Campuses Immigration Updates University Support Services Off-Campus Resources J Visa Scholars Employment Resources Forms and Documents H-1B Non-Immigrant Employment Visa Permanent Residency Global Ambassador Spotlight Contact Us Related Links Apply for International Graduate Admission Apply for International Undergraduate Admission Learn more about Clemson's English Language Programs Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram