Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Note-taking Accommodations Note-taking Accommodations Note-taking services may be provided for students unable to take notes and simultaneously participate in class due to their disability. Students must register with Disability Services so staff can determine their eligibility for this accommodation. If you are already registered with Disability Services but not currently eligible for note-taking services, you can request this accommodation, and others, by submitting a Request for Supplemental Accommodations form. Students must submit a new note-taking request each semester. Allow up to two weeks for note-taking services to be coordinated for each class. How to Submit a Request Expand all Collapse all Undergraduate and Law School Students Students submit their course schedule and note-taking request to Disability Services. DS then recruits a classmate in each class to provide a copy of their notes. The student providing notes does not know the identity of the student requesting notes; the process is anonymous. Disability Services then sends the student receiving note-taking services a copy of the notes once a week. Get Started Request accommodation letters via the online form, one per class. Have professors sign the accommodation letters. Return the signed accommodation letters to Disability Services. Request note-taking services using the online form. All Other Graduate Students Students submit their course schedule and note-taking request to their school liaison. The liaison then recruits a classmate to provide a copy of their notes. The student providing notes does not know the identity of the student requesting notes if the student requesting accommodation prefers that the process remain anonymous. Delivery method of the notes will vary by school, so confirm the delivery process with your liaison. Problems with the Notes If there are problems with any of the notes you are receiving, inform Disability Services or your school liaison immediately: Undergraduate and law school students should email Disability Services at [email protected]. Other graduate students should contact their school liaison directly. Do not wait until the middle of the semester, as this will leave little time to resolve the issue or recruit a new note-taker, if needed. Students should also expect that a note-taker might miss class. Although we ask note-takers to find a backup when they are absent, we also ask for students receiving note-taking accommodations to think about having a backup note-taker in each class. Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Staff Directory Check out our list of staff at the office department page. Health Unit Disability Services Clinical Specialty Accessibility Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close