Skip to main content GSD Logo Harvard University Graduate School of Design Reopening Menu Search Academics Department of Architecture Department of Landscape Architecture Department of Urban Planning and Design Design Studies Design Engineering Doctoral Programs Undergraduate Architecture Studies Loeb Fellowship Executive Education Early Design Education Research Courses More ▼ Apply GSD Now Give People Faculty Staff Students Alumni About Administrative Leadership Council Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Alumni and Friends Website Resources Most Popular: Admissions COVID-19 Financial Aid Frances Loeb Library Student Affairs Offices & Services All Resources → For: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Explore News Events Exhibitions Publications Podcasts Projects Topics Site Index Jump to: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A AIA Henry Adams Certificate AIA Henry Adams Medal AICP Outstanding Student Award Academic Affairs Academic Appointments and Policies Academic Calendars & Schedules Academic Conduct Policy Academic Integrity Academic Services & Advising Accellion Secure File Transfer Accessibility Services Accessibility Services at Public Programs Access to Career Services During Leave of Absence Accreditation Administrative Leadership Council Admissions Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions FAQ AfricaGSD After MDes Workshops After MDes Workshops Aga Khan Program at the GSD Alpha Rho Chi Medal Alumni Connections Alumni Council Career Panels American Society of Landscape Architects Awards Application Checklist Apply Apply for Financial Aid Apply for a Job with Computer Resources Applying for Restricted Scholarships Araldo A. Cossutta Annual Prize for Design Excellence Architecture Architecture Core Prep Areas of Concentration Art, Design, and the Public Domain Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2018 Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2019 Attendance Augmented & Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Award Details Award for Excellence in Project-Based Urban Planning Award for Excellence in Urban Design Award for Outstanding Leadership in Urban Planning and Urban Design B Benefits & Perks Biking Borrowing Print Materials Building Services Business Cards for Students C COVID-19 Information for Staff COVID-19 Testing and Tracing CREATE for Alumni CREATE for Employers CREATE for Students Canvas Capital Improvements and Projects Career Paths by Program Career Resources for Alumni Career Services: Alumni Career Services: Employers Career Services: FAQs Career Services: Faculty Career Services: Students Career Services Offerings Career Services Video Library Careers Casual Conversations With GSD Alumni Change of Address Charles Abrams Scholarship Charles Eliot Traveling Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Chauhaus Classroom Equipment Classroom Technology Clifford Wong Prize in Housing Design Commencement 2022 Commencement Information Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Communications Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Computer Accounts and Passwords Computer Labs Computer Recommendations Computer Requirements Computer Resources Group Concurrent and Joint Degrees Connecting to the File Server Connect with the GSD Contact Contact Admissions Contact Financial Aid Contact the GSD Cost Recovery Policy Course Catalog Course Descriptions Course Info Sessions and Videos Critical Conservation Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2018 Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2019 Cross-Registration Policies & Procedures Current MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements Current MUP Degree Requirements Curriculum Custodial Services D DDes & PhD Financial Aid DDes/PhD Open House Schedule DDes Guidelines for the Dissertation DDes Guidelines for the General Exam DDes Guidelines for the Prospectus DIB Annual Report DIB Programs Daniel L. Schodek Award for Technology and Sustainability Daniel Urban Kiley Teaching Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Dean’s Office Degree Checks Degree Programs Degree Requirements Policies Degree Verifications Design Computing at the GSD Design Labs Design Now: A Quarterly Podcast from Harvard’s Graduate School of Design Design Studies Thesis Prize Desktop 3D Printing Regulations Development and Alumni Relations Digital Delivery and Electronic Resources Digital Design Prize Digital Governance Policy Dimitris Pikionis Award Directions Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging at Career Services Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Offerings Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Resources Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Doctoral Grader (Union Position) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Design Program (DDes) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Document Request Form Druker Traveling Fellowship E ETH Zurich Exchange Program Early Design Education Ecologies Eligibility Email Accounts Emergencies Employer Presentations Employers & Career Paths for Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for Landscape Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for MDE Students Employers & Career Paths for MDes and DDes Students Employers & Career Paths for Urban Planning and Design Students Endowed Fellowships & Financial Aid Funds Energy and Environment Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2017 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2018 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2019 Enrollment Certifications Enrollment Policies Environmental Health and Safety at the GSD Equipment for Classroom Instruction Equitable Accountability Ergonomics Event Audiovisual Support Event Participation for Alumni Event Planning for Faculty and Staff Event Planning for Students Events Events Archive Executive Education Exemptions, Waivers, and Substitutions for MUPs Exhibitions F FAQ FERPA Fabrication Laboratory Faculty Faculty: Collaborate With Career Services Faculty Affairs Office Faculty Directory Faculty Handbooks, Administrative Policies, and Guidelines for Instruction Faculty Research Federal Work-Study Information Fellowships, Funding Sources, and Internships for Students Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Ferdinand Colloredo-Mansfeld Prize for Superior Achievement in Real Estate Studies Final Review Schedule (Spring 2021 – M1, Full-term, M2) Finance Office Financial Aid Financial Aid Application Process for Current Students Financial Aid Application for Prospective Students Financial Aid FAQ Financial Aid Handbook Financial Aid and Satisfactory Progress Financial Matters First Meetings for Option Studios Flexwork at the GSD Frances Loeb Library Fulbright U.S. Student Program G GLACIER GSD-Courances Residency Program GSD Alumni Council Career Panels GSD Community Calendar GSD Consumer Information GSD Diversity Cabinet GSD Payroll Coordinators GSD Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund GSD Radio GSD Student Payroll GSD Web Style Gain Experience General Ledger Gifts & Grants Grading Grant Aid H Harvard-MIT Course Logistics Harvard GSD Job & Internship Fair 2022 Harvard Graduate School of Design Employer Recruiting Policies Harvard Graduate School of Design Fact Book Harvard ID Card Harvard International Office Harvard Shuttle and Van Service Harvard Travel Registry Health Services Heating/Cooling Schedule Help Desk Hiring Students: Information for Faculty History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2018 History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2019 History and Philosophy of Design and Media Home How To Plot How to Post an Event to GSD Now How to Write a Resume That Stands Out Human Resources Human Resources Forms & Policies Hybrid Classroom I IT Policies Income Processing Policy and Procedures Information for Current DDes Students Information for Current PhD Students Installing AEScript AfterEffects Plugin Installing Adobe’s Creative Cloud Software Installing ArcGis Installing AutoDesk Installing Cargo Installing Cinema 4D Installing ClimateStudio Installing DesignBuilder Installing Diva for Rhino Installing Flovent Installing GRANTA EduPack Installing Houdini Installing KeyShot Installing MasterCam Installing MathCAD Installing Miro Installing Modelo Installing Multiframe and MicroStation Installing Printers For Windows Installing Printers for Mac Installing Reality Capture Installing Render Services Installing Rhino Installing RhinoTerrain Installing RobotStudio Installing SketchUp Installing SolidWorks Installing VRay for 3DS Max Installing VRay for Rhino Installing Windows on a Mac Using Parallels International Financial Aid International Student Resources Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Alien Staff Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Bunker Hill Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Dis-Armor Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – El Centro Cultural Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Hiroshima Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Homeless Vehicle Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Loro Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Personal Instrument Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Poliscar Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Abraham Lincoln Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Admiral Farragut Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Central Library Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The City Hall Tower Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Kunstmuseum Basel Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The New Mechelenians Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Real Estate Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Vehicle Irving Innovation Fellowship J J-Term Jacob Weidenman Prize James Templeton Kelley Prize Job Search Resources: Planning, Urban Design, Real Estate Julia Amory Appleton Traveling Fellowship in Architecture K KPF Traveling Fellowship Kevin V. Kieran Prize Key Requests L Landscape Architecture Landscape Architecture Faculty Office Hours Landscape Architecture Thesis Prize Leave of Absence Leaves/Withdrawals and Tuition Charges Library Access & Borrowing Library Liaisons Library Resources & Services Library Resources for Alumni and Visitors Library Staff Life at the GSD Limited-Enrollment Lottery LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard Live Course Presentations Living Guidebook to Virtual Teaching and Learning Living in Cambridge Loan Deferments Loeb Fellowship M MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements MAUD/MLAUD Student Work MArch Course Waiver and Substitution Policy and Procedures MArch Distributional Electives MArch Financial Aid MArch I AP Required Courses MArch II Required Courses MArch I Required Courses MArch Open House Schedule MArch Split Option MArch Thesis Program MDE Open House Schedule MDes Financial Aid MDes Open House Schedule MDes Research and Development Award MDes Technology MLA Degree Requirements MLA Financial Aid MLA Open House Schedule MLA Thesis Guidelines MLA Waivers and Substitutions MUP & MAUD Financial Aid MUP Degree Requirements MUP Outreach Mail Center Mail Policy Master in Architecture I Master in Architecture II Master in Design Engineering Master in Design Studies (MDes) Master in Design Studies (MDes) Pre-Fall 2021 Master in Landscape Architecture I Master in Landscape Architecture I AP Master in Landscape Architecture II Master in Real Estate Master in Urban Planning Master in Urban Planning and Juris Doctor Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Administration Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Health Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Policy Meditation Room Mediums Microsoft Teams Mindfulness, Stress Reduction, & Time Management N NAAB Accreditation Information and Resources Narratives News News Archive Newsletter Nondiscrimination Policy Norman T. Newton Prize O Obtaining a MA State ID Card Office Hour Signup Tools Office Updates Office for Urbanization Office of Career Services Office of Student Affairs Online Registration (my.Harvard) Online Teaching Resources Open Access Policy Open Faculty Positions Open House Open Non-Faculty Academic Positions Opportunities to Recruit GSD Students Option Studio Lottery Spring 2022 Option Studio Presentations Organizational Charts Orientation and Registration for Incoming Students Other Courses of Interest Other J-Term Opportunities Outside Scholarships Outstanding Leadership in Real Estate Award P Page Lists Shortcodes Parking Participate in the Summer Community Service Fellowship Program Paul M. Heffernan International Travel Award Paying for Your Program Payroll Penny White Project Fund Performance Management Performance Management Permanent Records Personnel Manuals Person of Interest (POI) Peter Rice Internship Program at Renzo Piano Building Workshop Peter Rice Prize Peter Walker and Partners Fellowship for Landscape Architecture PhD Student Bios Photo Lab Photography Guidelines Planning Newsletter Plimpton-Poorvu Design Prize Podcasts Policy on Personal Conduct Pollman Fellowship in Real Estate and Urban Development Pre-orientation for New Students Printing Costs Printing Guide Printing Tips and Known Issues Prize for Academic Excellence in Urban Planning and Urban Design Program History Program Pedagogy Projects Protected: Poster Presentations for CSFP Fellows Public Programs Publications Publics Purchases & Expenses R REA Fund Recipients Rafael Moneo Rome Travel Award Real Estate and the Built Environment Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2017 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2018 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2019 Recent DDes Graduates Recent PhD graduates Recommended Backgrounds for Option Studios Recycling, Freecycling and Composting Refunds Registrar Registration Registration Procedures Replacement Diplomas Request Update to Profile Photo Requesting a GSD Subsite Requirements 2017-18 Requirements 2018-19 Research Research Administration Research Administration Resources Research Assistant (Union Position) Research Centers & Programs Research Fellow (Union Position) Research Programs & Initiatives Research Reports & Publications Resource Center Resources for New Graduates Resources for Partners and Families Respectful and Transparent Engagement Return to Campus & Technology Richard Rogers Fellowship Risk and Resilience Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2018 Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2019 Robert A. M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) Room Reservations S Safety, Health, and Wellbeing Sample Job Posting #1 Sample Job Posting #2 Scanners Scholarships for International Students Scholarships for US Citizens and Eligible Non-citizens Seating Charts and Assigned Seating Security Shift Schedule Social Media Social Media Special Collections Special Interest Links for Architecture Students Spiritual Life Spring 2021 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2021 Thesis Review Schedule Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Final Review Schedule Staff Awards & Recognition Staff Directory Staff Newsletter Staff Printing Stationery and Branding Student & Alumni Events Student Academic Affairs Committee Student Directory Student Employment Student Forum Student Forum Open ZOOM Room Student Group Directory Student Group Guide Student Policies Student Records and Transcript Policies Student Travel Information and Costs for Option Studios Students on Leave of Absence Studio Abroad Studio Culture Policy Studio Electricity Summer Peer-Learning Sessions Sustainability at the GSD T Takenaka Summer Internship Talking Practice Tax Resources Teaching Assistant & Research Assistant: Faculty Resources Teaching Assistant (Union Position) Teaching Fellow (Union Position) Technical and Administrative Positions (Non-union Positions) Technology Guide Technology – Required Courses 2018 Technology – Required Courses 2019 Telephones Term Bill The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Title IX Tokyo Summer Workshop Topics Transcripts Transportation Travel Safety and Guidelines Traveling Fellowships Tuition Tuition and Financial Aid U UPD Faculty Office Hours UPD Thesis Guidelines Undergraduate Architecture Studies University Policies & Procedures Updating Staff Profile Photos Urban Design Faculty Profiles Urban Planning and Design Urban Planning and Design Open House Schedule Urban Planning and Design Thesis Prize Urban Planning and Public Policy Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2018 Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2019 Utilizing LinkedIn V VPN Service Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design Veteran and Military Benefits Virtual & On-Campus Events W Web: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Web Editing: Media Web Profile Photos Wellness Resources Wheelwright Prize Who We Are Work Opportunities for Students Work Order Request Form Workshops and Personal Development 2 2020 Oct Iframe test 2021-2022 Academic Year Planning 2022 Application FAQs 2022 J-Term Courses Submit Search Commencement Information Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 On Sunday, May 29, 2022, the Graduate School of Design will host Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021. Related Links Commencement Information Commencement 2022 Resources for New Graduates University-wide commencement site On This Page Overview Information for Graduates Information for Guests Additional Information Questions? Overview Harvard University and the Graduate School of Design will celebrate the resilient recent graduates who experienced one-of-a-kind virtual graduation ceremonies but were unable to participate in traditional, on-campus Harvard University Commencement exercises due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Saturday, May 28 4:00-6:00 p.m. Lanyard pick-up at Gund Hall Sunday, May 29, Commencement Day: 8:00 a.m. Harvard Yard University-wide Special Commencement Ceremony 10:30 a.m. Graduate School of Design Special Commencement Ceremony 1:00 p.m. Lunch for GSD graduates and guests 7:00 p.m. Beer N Dogs for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 COVID-19 Attestation and Protocols COVID-19 transmission is rated as “high” in Boston and Cambridge. Please use this knowledge as you plan your commencement activities. By registering to participate in Commencement, all graduates and their guests agree to: Abide by all state, local, and University COVID-19 guidelines and protocols in place at the time you come to campus Understand that the University strongly encourages all guests to be fully vaccinated and boosted (if eligible) and if unvaccinated to complete a COVID-19 (PCR or antigen) test before arriving on campus. Get tested every day that you have a scheduled event, even if you are not experiencing symptoms. Rapid antigen tests are widely available at area pharmacies. Harvard’s Color PCR testing is still available. We encourage those enrolled in this program to continue using it, in addition to rapid tests. If you test positive, do not attend commencement events during your isolation period. After testing positive, adhere to the 5-day home isolation guidance. For the full 10 days, follow strict masking and do not drink or dine in proximity to other people. Visit the Keep Harvard Healthy website for more information. If you have symptoms, no matter how mild, please do not attend commencement events – even if you test negative. For indoor and crowded outdoor events, wear a high-quality mask that fits securely without air gaps around your nose and mouth. See mask guidance here. If attending events that involve unmasking to eat or drink, minimize any unmasked mingling and mask up whenever you can. All graduates and guests will be required to wear masks when inside GSD campus buildings. Masks may be briefly removed to eat, drink, or pose for photography. The University will continue to actively monitor public health conditions and communicate expectations and guidelines to graduates and guests participating in Commencement. Information for Graduates Detailed Schedule Registration University Ceremony Credentials Graduate Housing and Lodging Graduate Travel Regalia Visa Support Letters for International Visitors Beer N' Dogs Detailed Schedule While some times may be subject to change, the detailed schedule for Commencement is below. Please note that registration is required for graduates and their guests in order to participate in Harvard and the GSD’s Commencement activities. Saturday, May 28, 2022 4:00 – 6:00 p.m. Lanyard/Yard Ceremony Credential Pick-up / Druker Design Gallery, Gund Hall 4:00 p.m. Informal tour of Gund Hall led by Kevin Liu MDes ’21 Sunday, May 29, 2022 TBD Harvard Yard gates open to ticketed guests / Harvard Yard Please visit the University Commencement website to learn more about what to expect during the University-wide Special Commencement Ceremony, including policies on tickets, bag inspection, strollers, etc. 6:30 a.m. Light continental breakfast (coffee, water, granola bars) available for GSD graduates / Gund Hall 6:30 a.m. Graduates line up for procession / Gund Hall 6:45 a.m. Graduates begin procession / Gund Hall If Graduates are not in this procession line, they will be unable to participate to sit with their class during the University-wide Special Ceremony 7:00 a.m. Academic Procession into Tercentenary Theatre 8:00 a.m. University-wide Special Commencement Ceremony begins / Harvard Yard, Tercentenary Theatre 9:30 a.m. Gund Hall backyard tent opens to ticketed guests for GSD Diploma Ceremony / Gund Hall back yard QR codes will be scanned for guests with tickets. Those without tickets will be directed to a standing room line which will open up once the majority of guests with tickets have been seated. 10:00 a.m.* University-wide Special Commencement Ceremony ends / Harvard Yard, Tercentenary Theatre 10:30 a.m.* Graduate School of Design Special Commencement Ceremony begins / Gund Hall back yard Ceremony will include an address by Jeanne Gang MArch ’93 (read more) 1:00 p.m.* Lunch for GSD graduates and guests following Special Commencement Ceremony / throughout Gund Hall Photobooth and gift pick-up, courtesy of Alumni Relations / The Pit 2:00 p.m. Informal tour of Gund Hall led by Kevin Liu MDes ’21 3:00 p.m. Informal tour of Gund Hall led by Kevin Liu MDes ’21 7:00 p.m. Beer n Dogs for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 (Graduates only) / Gund Hall back yard This event is organized through a collaboration between the Office of Student Affairs, Development and Alumni Relations, and ’20 and ’21 Class Marshals * These times are approximate, as they are contingent on when the University-wide Special Commencement Ceremony ends. Graduates and guests can expect activities to start roughly at the times that are listed above, but please expect slight delays. Registration 2020 and 2021 graduates will receive information on registration from the Harvard Alumni Association and GSD Alumni Relations via email. This webpage and the Harvard University Commencement webpage will be updated frequently with updated information. The deadline to register for Commencement is Friday, May 20 at 11:59 pm ET. If you are not receiving messages from the HAA or GSD, please ensure your contact information and email subscription preferences are up to date by logging in, with your HarvardKey, to the Online Alumni Directory. Each graduate will receive up to three guest tickets to the University-wide Commencement and GSD ceremony so that family and friends can take part in celebrating the hard work and perseverance of our graduates. Children under the age of 2 do not need a ticket in order to attend activities on May 29. The deadline to request additional tickets was Friday, April 15. All graduates who requested additional tickets will be notified in early May if their request was granted. Guests who were not granted tickets through the waitlist will be able to participate in the GSD’s Commencement ceremony from a standing room section in the Gund Hall backyard. University Ceremony Credentials Alumni are strongly encouraged to come to the Druker Design Gallery in Gund Hall on Saturday, May 28, from 4:00–6:00 pm to pick up their graduation lanyard. This lanyard serves as your credentials to access the University Ceremony in Harvard Yard. Graduates will need to bring a photo ID and your Commencement QR Code to pick up your lanyard. Graduates who pick up lanyards on Saturday will receive a small gift while supplies last. Please remember to bring your lanyard on Sunday morning. Graduate Housing and Lodging Campus housing will be offered to graduates for the nights of Saturday, May 28 and Sunday, May 29. The University endeavors to accommodate all graduates who request housing, but housing will be limited by availability and will be unable to guarantee specific locations. The deadline for graduates to request on-campus housing was Friday, April 15. Graduates who applied for campus housing will be notified by May 6 with information on their housing assignment. Harvard University will not be able to provide campus housing for families and guests. The University has secured room blocks at Boston-area hotels. Please visit the University’s Commencement Accommodations page for details on these room blocks and to learn about other hotels in the area. Graduate Travel The University is committed to making the celebration financially feasible for all members of the Classes of 2020 and 2021. There will be no charge for registration, provided meals, nor for campus housing for the graduates of these classes, yet we know that for some graduates, the cost of traveling to campus may be a hardship. To request financial assistance, please contact commencement_20and21@harvard.edu by Saturday, April 29. Regalia The University is committed to a ceremony with the pomp and circumstance of a traditional Commencement, including a processional during which graduates will be expected to wear the appropriate regalia. The deadline to place regalia orders through the Coop was Saturday, April 9. For graduates with addresses within the continental United States, regalia will ship directly to your home. Graduates with international addresses will have their regalia delivered to Harvard Square COOP for pick-up Monday, May 23-Sunday, May 29. If you missed the April 9 deadline and do not have regalia, the COOP will have EXTRA keepsake regalia sets available for last-minute purchase. Harvard Square Coop pick–up location: 18 Palmer Street, Cambridge MA 02138. Please use the Palmer Street entrance — from The Coop main entrance on Massachusetts Ave, go left toward Milk Bar and Cardullo’s Gourmet Shoppe, then take a right onto Palmer Street at the Origins Store. International Graduate Regalia Pick-up and Graduate Regalia Purchase Dates: Monday, May 23, 2022: 10:00 a.m.–8:00 p.m. Tuesday, May 24, 2022: 10:00 a.m.–8:00 p.m. Wednesday, May 25, 2022: 9:00 a.m.–9:00 p.m. Thursday, May 26, 2022: 9:00 a.m.–9:00 p.m. Friday, May 27, 2022: 9:00 a.m.–10:00 p.m. Saturday, May 28, 2022: 9:00 a.m.–10:00 p.m. On Sunday, May 29, The Coop will open at 5:30 a.m. for Keepsake Regalia pick up. Keepsake Regalia Pick-up Instructions International Graduates must bring the following when picking up their Keepsake regalia: Harvard Student ID or a Government Issued ID (driver’s license, passport). Copy of your Purchase Confirmation (Optional) Someone else can pick up regalia for you, but they must have a copy (printed or digital) of your ID. Keepsake Regalia Purchase Instructions If you missed the deadline to purchase Keepsake Regalia, you can purchase regalia at the COOP by providing the following information: Your school Degree (ex: MArch, MDes) Height and weight Graduates must pay for the Keepsake Regalia when placing their orders — Master’s degrees regalia is $94, PhD regalia is $191 Affinity Graduation Stoles If you did not receive an affinity stole for the 2020 or 2021 virtual ceremonies, you can request a stole for pick-up. The pick-up location for GSD graduates is TBD. The deadline to request stoles is May 2, 2022. Visa Support Letters for International Visitors If you are a 2020 or 2021 graduate and you and/or your guest(s) require a visa support letter in order to travel to Cambridge to participate in Commencement on May 29, 2022, please fill out this form. The deadline to request visa support letters is Friday, May 20. The GSD can provide an official letter to the US consulate in your or your guest’s home country, officially supporting the visa application. Letters will be issued in secured PDF form and will be sent via email. Letters will be processed within 5-10 business days of when your form is submitted. Beer N' Dogs Development and Alumni Relations and the Office of Student Affairs invite Graduates from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 to a Graduation Edition of Beer and Dogs on Sunday May 29, from 7:00-9:00 p.m. Graduates will enjoy hot dogs, sausages, and Impossible burgers grilled up by The Sausage Guys and DJ sets by Anriduh Gurumoorthy MDes ’20 and Han Ning Tsai MAUD ’20. If you have questions, please email Commencement_20and21@gsd.harvard.edu. Information for Guests Guest Tickets Lodging Options Live Webcasts Accessibility Guest Tickets Each graduate will receive up to three guest tickets to the University-wide Commencement and GSD ceremony so that family and friends can take part in celebrating the hard work and perseverance of our graduates. Children under the age of 2 do not need a ticket in order to attend activities on May 29. The deadline to request additional tickets was Friday, April 15. All graduates who requested additional tickets will be notified in early May if their request was granted. Guests who were not granted tickets through the waitlist will be able to participate in the GSD’s Commencement ceremony from a standing room section in the Gund Hall backyard. Lodging Options The University has secured room blocks at Boston-area hotels. Please visit the University’s Commencement Accommodations page for details on these room blocks and to learn about other hotels in the area. Live Webcasts Key events, including the Harvard Yard University-wide Ceremony and the GSD’s Commencement Ceremony, will be available by live public webcast for anyone unable to attend in person. The GSD’s webcast will include live English captions and simultaneous automated translated captions will be available on separate links in Chinese – Traditional, Chinese – Simplified, Greek, Hindi, Japanese, Korean, Persian, and Spanish. These can be viewed on cell phones by those attending in person, as well as being available for remote viewers of the livestream. Livestream event page for GSD Diploma Ceremony for Classes of 2020 and 2021 The event page has links to the caption streams for English and the translated captions. Scroll just past the video player. Accessibility Graduates will have the opportunity to request accommodations for guests with disabilities or other needs requiring accommodation to participate fully in the celebrations. Graduates requiring accommodations for themselves or their guests should indicate their requests through the registration process or contact the GSD’s planning team directly about your/your guest’s accessibility needs. The GSD’s Commencement Ceremony will be held in the Gund Backyard. Below is a general description of the format/conditions during the Ceremony. The ceremony will take place outdoors, primarily on grassy terrain, under the cover of a tent. Guest seating is general admission, aside from seats reserved for those with accessibility needs. Ceremony speakers will use microphones and speak from a podium. Restrooms are available inside Gund Hall prior to tent entry, and within the ticketed tent area in the form of portable bathrooms, including a wheelchair accessible unit. Captioning and Translation English captions and translated captioning is available for guests watching Commencement in-person or watching the webcast remotely. Captions will be available via a weblink to a web-based platform and more information will be available closer to May 29. In addition to English, translated captions will be available in Chinese – Simplified Chinese – Traditional Korean Spanish Greek Hindi Persian Japanese Equipment Rentals There are a number of equipment rental companies in the local area. Wheelchairs, walkers, scooters, and other equipment may be rented from local vendors that provide short term loans for a cost. Belmont Medical Supply http://www.belmontmedical.com/ 185 Belmont Street, Belmont, MA 02478 617-484-3888 Boston Orthopedic & Respiratory Equipment http://www.bostonorthoresp.com/ 175 Main Street, Charlestown, MA 617-337-5133 or (800) 854-6370 Additional Information You can view the archived ceremonies for Virtual Commencement events in 2020 and 2021 on YouTube: Harvard University Morning Ceremony YouTube broadcast, 2021 GSD Ceremony YouTube broadcast, 2021 Harvard University Morning Ceremony YouTube broadcast, 2020 GSD Ceremony YouTube broadcast, 2020 You can also view the virtual exhibitions for the classes of 2020 and 2021: Commencement Exhibit, 2021 Thesis Exhibit, 2021 Commencement Exhibit, 2020 Thesis Prize Exhibit, 2020 Questions? For further questions about Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021, please contact commencement_20and21@gsd.harvard.edu. Email GSD Commencement View Commencement Site Prev Next Close Slideshow Back to top Harvard University Graduate School of Design © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Privacy Accessibility Digital Accessibility Maps Contact COVID-19 GSD API Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, exhibitions, and more. Email* Δ Version 1.11.26