Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of the Arts Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Contact Dean's Message Facilities Visitor Information Students Show Extended Advising (Current Students) Advising and Registration (New Students) Assistant Dean for Student Affairs First Generation College Students Get Involved! Scholarships Student Success Center University Catalogue (2022-2023) Events & Visitor Information Show Extended PERFORMANCES & EXHIBITIONS College of the Arts Events & Activities Calendar Grand Central Art Center Exhibitions Digital Program Booklets BOX OFFICE & VISITOR INFORMATION Clayes Performing Arts Center Box Office Visitor Information Alumni Spotlights & Arts Titans in the News Show Extended Alumni: Share Your Story! Featured Alumni Titan of Tassel Titan of Winds Arts Titans in the News Art Dance Music Theatre Nicholas & Lee Begovich Gallery Grand Central Art Center Support Groups Show Extended Art Alliance Alliance for the Performing Arts/MAMM Music Associates Donate Now Purchase Tickets Get Connected Page 1 Page 2 College of the Arts - Featured Alumni Fred Tomaselli '81 (B.A. Art) Acclaimed contemporary painter, known for his collaged works incorporating unorthodox materials. Tomaselli Bio Rod Gilfry '81 (B.A. music) Acclaimed two-time Grammy nominated opera singer and actor Linda Woolverton '79 (M.A. theatre arts) Film screenwriter. Credits include Disney's Beauty and the Beast, The Lion King, Alice in Wonderland and others. IMDB website Bradley Beakes '09 (B.A. dance) Dancer with the Doug Varone and Dancers company and was a featured soloist for the Limón Dance Company. Bradley also teaches at Peridance and Gibney 280. Follow Bradley on Instagram Limón Dance Company video with Bradley Beakes Farnaz Esnaashari-Charmatz '04 (B.F.A. art-entertainment art/animation) Creator of Nickelodeon's Shimmer and Shine Franaz on IMDB Tom Ranier '72 (B.A. music composition) Southern California jazz artist and music orchestrator/arranger Tanya Bracco '95 (B.A. Theatre arts) Emmy-winning supervising producer: The Late Show with Stephen Colbert Tanya's IMDB page More featured alumni This site is maintained by College of the Arts. Last Published 4/4/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact jbussell@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.