Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events For Journalists Social Media U.S. Senator Tina Smith T’84 to Deliver Tuck Investiture Address Senator Tina Smith, who holds the highest public office among Tuck alumni, will deliver the main address at the 2022 Tuck Investiture ceremony June 11. by Tuck Communications Apr 25, 2022 Tina Smith T’84, United States Senator for Minnesota, will deliver this year’s Tuck Investiture address on the steps of Tuck Hall on Saturday, June 11. Smith returns to Tuck at the height of her career in public service. After joining the Senate in 2018, she quickly developed a reputation as a fierce advocate for the people and communities of Minnesota and for Americans nationwide. During her time in the upper chamber of Congress, Smith has had more than 50 bills and provisions signed into law. Her work has helped make health care more affordable and accessible, expanded broadband services across Minnesota, boosted the efforts of schools and teachers to prepare students for in-demand careers, and more. Senator Smith, who received her MBA from the Tuck School in 1984, serves on four Senate committees: Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry; Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs; Health, Education, Labor and Pensions; and Indian Affairs When the COVID-19 pandemic hit, Senator Smith moved swiftly, working with colleagues on legislation to help her constituents navigate the crisis. Included among these measures were bills aimed at ensuring COVID-19 tests remained free for all patients, and that vaccines would be covered under private health insurance plans. Senator Smith has also served on numerous Senate committees, including Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry; Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs; Health, Education, Labor and Pensions; and Indian Affairs. In 2021, she was named chair of two subcommittees—on Housing, Transportation, and Community Development, and on Rural Development and Energy. Prior to her career in politics, Smith cut her teeth in business at General Mills, working on its marketing team for three years before founding her own consulting firm which she grew into a 20-person business. All the while, Smith volunteered for local and national political campaigns. She made the move to public servant in 2006 when she accepted the position of chief of staff to former Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak. Since that point, Smith has been a force in Minnesota and beyond, working to improve the lives of families, farmers, veterans, businesses, Tribal communities, and more. Following her time in the mayor’s office, she served former Minnesota Governor Mark Dayton as chief of staff and, later, lieutenant governor. As lieutenant governor, she spearheaded major public-private partnerships, successfully brokered support for educational programs and workforce development, and led the charge to bring more useful data to legislative decision-making. “Essentially what happened over the course of my career was my vocation in strategy and marketing traded places with my avocation, which was community service,” Smith said when profiled by Tuck in 2015. In addition to her MBA from Tuck, Smith holds a Bachelor of Arts from Stanford University, where she studied political science. The 2022 Tuck Investiture ceremony will take place on Saturday, June 11, 2022 from 1:00 p.m.–3:00 p.m. ET. The ceremony will be held on the steps of Tuck Hall. In the case of inclement weather, the ceremony will shift to Leede Arena. A livestream of the event will be available to community members, friends, and family who would like to tune into the ceremony. For general information including parking, visit the Tuck Investiture site and stay tuned for additional details. You Might Also Like... A New Beginning, for Business and Leaders Jun 16, 2021 Roger Ferguson, Jr., immediate past president and CEO of TIAA, and Sarah Blatt T’21, military veteran and incoming McKinsey associate, delivered powerful remarks at the 2021 Tuck School Investiture ceremony. What Does It Take? Jul 27, 2020 In celebration of 50 years of women at Tuck, we asked alumnae what it takes to succeed in today's business world. Contact Tuck Communications tuck.communications@tuck.dartmouth.edu Media inquiries eric.h.walters@tuck.dartmouth.edu About Tuck News features the latest stories about business research conducted by faculty members and business practitioners at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. Editorials penned by professors are published on the site, as well as regular school updates from Tuck staff writers regarding trends in business education. 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy