Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu Prospective Students Prospective Undergraduate Students Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ's): Undergraduate Programs This is a list of some of the most frequent questions we receive about our undergraduate program applications. For additional information, please visit the Harvard College website. What distinguishes Harvard's academic programs in engineering? In a word: Harvard. Unlike some programs in engineering and applied sciences, Harvard undergraduates who pursue the field are not enrolled in a separate school or college. Studying engineering is only one aspect of a student's experience. As an engineering school within Harvard, we are closely linked with a variety of multidisciplinary and innovative education and research institutes, centers, and initiatives, as listed under faculty & research. What’s the difference between an AB and an SB? The Bachelor of Arts (A.B.) degree is similar to that available through other Harvard College concentrations. In engineering concentrations at SEAS, the A.B. degree requires 14 to 16 half-courses (dependent on a student’s math placement). This degree provides solid preparation for the practice of engineering, and it provides outstanding preparation for graduate study in engineering and careers in other professions (finance, business, law, medicine, etc.). Due to its moderate total course requirements, the A.B. offers greater flexibility than the S.B. degree, allowing students to pursue their interests outside of engineering, or giving them the freedom to selectively deepen their engineering education by taking additional technical courses of their choice. Students who have pursued the A.B. degree have gone on to top graduate programs in engineering, computer science, medicine, and related fields. The Bachelor of Science (S.B.) degree programs require a minimum of 20 half-courses, and gives students the level of technical depth comparable to accredited engineering programs at other major universities. The additional course requirements in the S.B. program provide students with greater depth in their chosen area, as well as S.B.-specific courses in engineering design. In their junior year, S.B. concentrators take a team-based design course (typically ES 96), which provides the opportunity to be part of a multidisciplinary team that will analyze and design a prototype solution for a real-world engineering problem. Past ES 96 projects have included designing a shoe insert to detect the early formation of diabetic ulcers and a novel research instrument to measure atmospheric ozone concentrations while suspended in the payload of a high-altitude balloon. In their senior year, all S.B. concentrators take a year-long capstone design course (ES 100hf) in which they design and prototype a solution to an engineering problem of their own choice. This project is their senior design thesis. In addition to providing exceptional preparation for graduate school and careers in other professions, an S.B. degree also provides outstanding preparation for a career in professional engineering practice. How can high school students best prepare if they are considering engineering and applied sciences? The College Admissions Office offers the following guidance for ALL prospective students interested in any concentration in the physical, life, and engineering sciences: "... it is essential that you study chemistry and physics in secondary school. Your college work will build upon these courses. To be well-prepared for college, you should study secondary school science for four years if possible: a year of chemistry, physics, and biology, and a year of advanced work in one of these disciplines. Courses in psychology, astronomy, geology, and anthropology are not appropriate substitutes for these subjects." What is SEAS doing to attract and encourage women, minorities, and underrepresented students in engineering and technology? The following SEAS-affiliated student organizations have historically supported efforts to encourage more women, minorities, and underrepresented students in STEM: Women in Computer Science Harvard University SEAS Society of Women Engineers Harvard Graduate Women in Science and Engineering Harvard College National Society of Black Engineers Harvard SEAS Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers In addition, SEAS has its own Office of Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging, that provides strategic leadership, partnership, programs, and support toward the development, implementation, and ongoing evaluation of a Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Strategic Framework. What is the size of the program relative to other Harvard College concentrations? Students concentrating in engineering and applied sciences comprise about 20% of Harvard College concentrators (and that doesn't include those pursuing secondary fields). What does the future hold for engineering at Harvard? In the past decade, the engineering and applied sciences program has undergone a spectacular renewal and emergence, hiring 50 new faculty members and building a host of new facilities. In the coming years, the size of the SEAS faculty is projected to continue to grow. In addition, Harvard is planning a significant expansion of the campus that will include new state-of-the-art teaching and research facilities for SEAS. Main navigation Information For In Prospective Students Prospective Graduate Students Learn More Funding & Scholarship: Graduate Programs Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) How to Apply Non-Degree Status: Special Students & Visiting Fellows Contact Information Graduate Student Data Clubs & Organizations Prospective Undergraduate Students What concentrations (majors) are a part of SEAS? SEAS Tours (undergraduate only) Clubs & Organizations Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ's) Student Stories Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy