FacebookInstagramTwitterYouTubePinterestLinkedin Home Stories Art Art History Dance Film Ignite Arts Dallas Journalism Meadows Prize Music Theatre Featured Alumni Faculty Directory Facilities Apply Resources Project Request Submission Submit Calendar Event Submit Faculty/Staff Bio Music Group Visits Student Recitals Contact Home Stories Art Art History Dance Film Ignite Arts Dallas Journalism Meadows Prize Music Theatre Featured Alumni Faculty Directory Facilities Apply Resources Project Request Submission Submit Calendar Event Submit Faculty/Staff Bio Music Group Visits Student Recitals Contact Home Stories Art Art History Dance Film Ignite Arts Dallas Journalism Meadows Prize Music Theatre Featured Alumni Faculty Directory Facilities Apply Resources Project Request Submission Submit Calendar Event Submit Faculty/Staff Bio Music Group Visits Student Recitals Contact TopPosts Aayush Chandra 2018-05-14T09:16:23-06:00 Newest Arts Management Research by SMU Meadows Shaping the Cultural Landscape The Promenade (La promenade) by Marc Chagall Research projects, public lectures and community initiatives delve into arts philanthropy, constituent engagement and more Two new research projects underway at SMU Meadows School of the Arts involve Meadows faculty members, students and alumni in the M.A./M.B.A. degree program, as well [...] These 30 Graduation Day Photos Will Make You Smile Dance major Takia Hopson walks the stage. All photos by Kim Leeson. On a stormy May 19, SMU Meadows moved commencement indoors. Keynote speaker Ian Derrer, general director of the Dallas Opera, reviewed his notes backstage. Students hugged their professors. Willie Baronet, Stan Richards Professor in Creative Advertising, took group selfies. There is nothing like the happiness and joy of graduation day. Photographer Kim Leeson was on hand to capture the scene. Students Lauren Steele and Roderick Woodruff Grads wait backstage before commencement Meadows Scholar Stejara Dinulescu kills time in line before commencement [...] Nick Rallo 2019-06-05T08:48:53-06:00 May 20, 2019|Photos We Love| Read More Newest Arts Management Research by SMU Meadows Shaping the Cultural Landscape The Promenade (La promenade) by Marc Chagall Research projects, public lectures and community initiatives delve into arts philanthropy, constituent engagement and more Two new research projects underway at SMU Meadows School of the Arts involve Meadows faculty members, students and alumni in the M.A./M.B.A. degree program, as well as scholars and professionals from other countries. They are collaborating to investigate common topics related to fundraising and audience development that currently affect most cultural institutions. Both projects are part of Meadows’ Division of Arts Management and Arts Entrepreneurship (AMAE) program. The first research project, “‘Don’t Worry, Be Happy’: Artworks [...] Nick Rallo 2019-03-05T14:01:36-06:00 March 5, 2019|Arts Management and Arts Entrepreneurship, Home| Read More “The Arts are for Everybody”: 10 Quotes That Inspired Us from Jane Chu, Former NEA Chair and Recipient of SMU’s Distinguished Alumni Award The NEA thrived under Jane Chu’s leadership. (All photos by Kim Leeson) Jane Chu earned a Master of Music degree from SMU and has spent her career in arts administration and philanthropy. During her four-year term (2014–18) as chair of the National Endowment for the Arts, Chu traveled to all 50 states, visiting more than 400 arts organizations in 200 communities. It was a bustling Homecoming weekend at SMU. The Division of Art hosted a conference that brought in experts in the field from around the world. Opera soared from the lobby. That morning, Jane Chu sat with the [...] Nick Rallo 2019-03-04T15:17:50-06:00 November 5, 2018|Arts Management and Arts Entrepreneurship, Photos We Love| Read More 12Next Load More Posts Spring Events Guide Find events and exhibits at SMU Meadows: Browse Our Spring Calendar Get Tickets to In-Person Events Season Subscription Subscribers get a 25% discount on every ticket they buy as part of their season package. Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275