COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Title IX Policy Review Section Menu OIEC Home Contact OIEC Pregnancy Policies and Discrimination WSU Discrimination Policies OIEC Training Title IX Empowerment Summit Affirmative Action CARE Team Submit a Report CSA Training Packet Title IX Policy Review Title IX Policy Statement Resources and Additional Reporting Options Rights of the Parties in Sexual Harassment Cases If You Have Experienced Sexual Assault 2021 Title IX Review and Survey Archived Policies Frequently Asked Questions: Sexual Assault Prevention Training for Students OIEC Annual Reports On May 6, 2020, the U.S. Department of Education released comprehensive Title IX regulations governing how institutions must respond to allegations of sexual harassment. The University’s Office of Institutional Equity and Compliance (OIEC) has worked to review and familiarize itself with the 2,000 pages of regulations, comments and interpretive guidance and identify changes needed to its policies, processes, education and training necessary to ensuring that all members of the WSU community are free from discrimination and harassment to work, study and live. OIEC, in conjunction with other leaders on campus, have prepared a revised WSU Policy 3.06 Sexual Harassment, Discrimination and Retaliation in response to these new regulations. In addition to the administration of this policy, OIEC will continue to work to reduce the rate of sexual misconduct in the University community through both prevention efforts and enforcement. OIEC will continue to provide ongoing sexual assault prevention education and comprehensive resources to stop, prevent and remedy sexual violence, sexual harassment, dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking as well as other forms of discrimination on the basis of sex. Feedback from the WSU community We are looking forward to receiving feedback to assist with any needed clarifications in the policy and develop training and education for the campus. Additional opportunities to learn more about the changes to the policy can be found on the OIEC’s website in the coming weeks, along with a town hall discussion later this Fall. If you have feedback on this policy, please use the form below to submit it to the OIEC. The revised Policy 3.06 will be published in the WSU Policies and Procedures no later than August 14. Download the proposed policy Title IX Policy Feedback Form If you see this don't fill out this input box. First Name* Last Name* Email Address* Comment or Question*Form UUID Site Name Submit 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©