Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary EVANS SCHOOL OF PUB POL & GOV PUBLIC POLICY AND GOVERNANCE PUBLIC POLICY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 PUBPOL 201 Introduction to Public Policy and Governance (5) I&S Provides an introduction to policy analysis, governance, and public service. Students learn how individuals organize for common purposes, and design, implement, analyze, and evaluate policy. Students examine how policy decisions emerge and how the values of public, nonprofit, and private sector leaders and institutions affect decisions and implementation. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 201 PUBPOL 299 Special Topics in Public Policy (5, max. 10) I&S Examines selected topics in public policy. Focuses on in-depth analysis of vital public policy issues and integration of economic, political, and administrative perspectives. Offered: SpS. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 299 PUBPOL 301 Truth, Evidence, and Public Policy Analytics (5) I&S, QSR Sound public policy and governance decisions rely on having evidence to support conclusions, as well as having an understanding of the extent of certainty regarding the available evidence. Students will learn qualitative, statistical, experimental, and mixed methods to evaluate: the origins of policy; the management, implementation, and administration of public programs; and the intended and unintended impacts of public policies. Prerequisite: PUBPOL 201; and one of the following: STAT 220, STAT 221/CS&SS 221/SOC 221, or STAT 311. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 301 PUBPOL 313 Evidence-Based Policy Implementation (5) I&S Explores the multidimensional challenge of turning policy and program intentions into valued results on the ground. Understanding why implementation can fall short of expectation requires an understanding of how public/nonprofit organizations work; including their mission, resources, collaborators, and results measurement. Examines the role that evidence can play in service of democratic governance and policy effectiveness. Recommended: PUBPOL 201 View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 313 PUBPOL 321 Decision-making, Behavior, and Policy Design (5) I&S Provides a foundation in the application of decision theory and behavioral science to study public policy problems. Students learn how cognition, heuristics, biases, emotion, and social dynamics interact in decision-making, and how context and framing shape decisions. Students learn how decision-making influences the effect of public policies on the equity and efficiency of the production and distribution of goods and resources. Prerequisite: PUBPOL 201. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 321 PUBPOL 355 Special Topics in Nonprofits (5, max. 15) Covers various topics regarding nonprofit essentials. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 355 PUBPOL 403 Professional Leadership (5) Cultivates practical skills required to lead within various organizational contexts: managerial strategies for public, nonprofit, and business organizations are developed through case studies and guest speakers. Focuses on analytical and ethical approaches to problem solving and the communication skills needed for effective leadership in any career. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 403 PUBPOL 499 Topics in Public Policy (5, max. 15) I&S Examines selected issues of importance in all areas of public policy. Focus on in-depth analysis of vital public policy issues and the integration of economic, political, and administrative perspectives on them. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 499 PUBPOL 501 Legislative Relations (4) Studies role of legislative bodies in American public policy making. Builds on case studies and focuses on tactics, constraints, and options involved in working within a legislative process to achieve public policy goals. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 501 PUBPOL 502 Strategy for Public Leaders (4) Explores the design and execution of strategy in public life. Covers concepts and practical tools for making strategy, including situational assessment, strategy design, implementation, and reassessment and revision. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 502 PUBPOL 503 Executive Leadership (4) Cultivate the practical skills required to lead within various operational contexts. Managerial strategies for addressing problems in public, not-for-profit and business organizations will be examined through case studies, general readings, class-exercises, presentations by practitioners, and self-reflection. Throughout this course, students will practice the core skills required for their success as future leaders. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 503 PUBPOL 504 Leadership Ethics in the Public Interest (4) Addresses the moral challenges facing leaders in the public and nonprofit sectors. Examines the values and virtues important to sustained ethical leadership as well as strategies to build strong institutional cultures and support ethical practices in institutions. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 504 PUBPOL 505 The Law of Public Administration (3) Legal framework of public administrative action in the United States, emphasizing constitutional requirements; operation of the administrative process; management of personnel, funds, and contracts; and judicial review of administrative activity. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 505 PUBPOL 506 Ethics and Public Policy (3/4) Teaches students to identify moral issues in public life. Special focus on the integration of moral concerns into public discussion in a manner which contributes to good policy and does not polarize issues. Discusses moral and political theory by focusing on contemporary cases and issues. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 506 PUBPOL 507 Mediation and Negotiation (4) Possibilities offered by mediation and negotiation methods using a mixture of cases, readings, discussions, lectures, and guest speakers. Use of negotiation and mediation techniques to resolve disputes and disagreements over public-policy issues. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 507 PUBPOL 509 Managing People in Public and Nonprofit Agencies (4) Explore the fundamentals of managing people with a specific emphasis on managing people in nonprofit and public agencies. Covers theoretical and practical aspects of management such as: learning how to motivate a team for results; understanding key aspects of human resource law and practice; exploring how lean management can be utilized in nonprofit and government agencies; managing a diverse workforce, and managing in a union environment. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 509 PUBPOL 510 Foundations of American Democracy (4) Examines the fundamental values such as equality, liberty, dignity, freedom, and autonomy that individuals justify and shape American political culture and institutions. Focuses upon the philosophical and religious foundations of these values and examines the relations among them as well as how they influence American political culture, institutions, and conflict. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 510 PUBPOL 511 Managing Politics and the Policy Process (4) Examines broad aspects of organizational life and orients students to key internal and external challenges and opportunities of managing public and nonprofit organizations. Main topics include organizational mission, values, communication, culture, organizational environment and the policy process. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 511 PUBPOL 512 Managing Organizational Performance (4) Addresses questions of organizational design, personnel, and operations management to equip students with skills to perform effectively in mission-driven organizations. Core topics include organizational design, inter-organizational networks, human resources and staff management, improving service delivery and production flows, measuring and managing for performance, and ethical leadership. Prerequisite: permission of instructor; recommended: PUBPOL 511 View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 512 PUBPOL 513 Public Policy Analysis (4) Equips students to rigorously assess policy responses to public problems, through defining problems, devising alternative solutions, clarifying stakes in choices, predicting impacts of choices. Skills developed by working on specific policy problems. Assumes familiarity with statistics, microeconomic theory, and institutions and processes of American government. Prerequisite: permission of instructor; recommended: PUBPOL 516 , PUBPOL 517 View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 513 PUBPOL 514 Psychology for Policy Analysis (4) Examines basic concepts in social psychology, judgment and decision making, and behavioral economics. Explores how these concepts can be applied to the design, implementation, and evaluation of successful policy. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 514 PUBPOL 515 Decision Making for Public Managers (3) Considers decision making from normative, prescriptive, and descriptive perspectives. Emphasizes individual decision making, with some discussion of organizational decision practice. Focuses on decision analysis; presents tools for structuring decisions; and considers the role of analysis as a basis for negotiation. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 515 PUBPOL 516 Economics for Policy Analysis and Management I (4) Examines the use of microeconomics in policy analysis. Includes a review of supply, demand, and how government actions (e.g., taxes, subsidies) affects economic efficiency in a competitive market. Develops a deeper understanding of consumer choice as a function of preferences and constraints - the building blocks of demand - and examine how changes in constraints or opportunities via public policy affects choices. Recommended: elementary economics View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 516 PUBPOL 517 Economics for Policy Analysis and Management II (4) Serves to deepen student understanding of microeconomic theory with a focus on understanding the economic analysis of market failures and on developing policies to address them. Prerequisite: PUBPOL 516 or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 517 PUBPOL 518 Applied Cost Benefit Analysis (4) Explores the use of benefit-cost techniques for analyzing policy, regulatory, and public investment decisions. Topics to include discounting, estimating demand in primary and secondary markets, risk and uncertainty, and nonmarket valuation. This widely-used applied economics tool will be mastered through lecture, applied problem-solving and a benefit-cost analysis project. Prerequisite: PUBPOL 516 and 517, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 518 PUBPOL 519 Law and Economics (2-4, max. 4) Examines the applications of Law and Economics to: torts, property, contract, and criminal law; intellectual property, tobacco litigation, employment law, human organ sales, and U.S. regulatory design. Offered: jointly with LAW A 561. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 519 PUBPOL 520 Intergovernmental Relations (4) Comparative study of the issues involved in implementing government programs across multiple jurisdictions. Issues of accountability, feasibility, politics, and constitutional limits are examined by focusing upon various methods used to implement programs across federal, state, regional, and international jurisdictions. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 520 PUBPOL 521 Managing Public Grants and Contracts (4) Public organizations are increasingly reliant on partners and contractors for the delivery of public services, using a variety of means to engage these partners, including grants and contracts. This course explores how to best design, manage, and evaluate contracts/grants to improve performance, including the process through which contracts and grants are managed, and how to effectively evaluate performance to inform future partnerships. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 521 PUBPOL 522 Financial Management and Budgeting (4) An introduction to financial and management accounting, and an overview of public and nonprofit budgeting systems. Covers tools and techniques for budget analysis and the use of financial information in managerial decision making. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 522 PUBPOL 523 Advanced Budgeting in the Public Sector (4) Covers more advanced topics in governmental budgeting. Provides an overview of the functions, expenditures, and revenues of federal, state, and local governments. Recommended: PUBPOL 522, or instructor permission. Recommended: PUBPOL 522 View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 523 PUBPOL 524 Public Sector Financing (4) Covers financial management in public agencies, with the primary focus on state and local government. Prerequisite: PUBPOL 522, or instructor permission. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 524 PUBPOL 525 Qualitative Field Methods and Analysis (4) Provides a review of qualitative field research methods, exposure to writing from the field, and opportunities to try practicing fieldwork. Emphasizes study design, case selection, interviewing techniques, survey design, and field notes. Addresses coding, analysis, writing, and presenting findings. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 525 PUBPOL 526 Program Evaluation (4) Introduction to the theory, practice, and politics of program and policy evaluation. Covers the major types of evaluation, including theory of change, implementation and process evaluation, and impact evaluation, as well as quantitative and qualitative data collection techniques, the ethics of evaluation, and engaging stakeholders in evaluation. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 526 PUBPOL 527 Quantitative Analysis I (4) Two-quarter sequence explores how to formulate research questions, gain experience with conducting research, and learn how to assess which statistical tools or research methods are appropriate to answer different types of policy or management questions. Covers probability, descriptive statistics, hypothesis testing, and confidence intervals. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 527 PUBPOL 528 Quantitative Analysis II (4) Second quarter of a two-quarter sequence aimed at helping students become informed users and critical consumers of research and statistical analysis. Combines material on research design and causal inference methods with tools for multivariate analysis. The multivariate analysis methods include correlation and an introduction to multivariate regression. Prerequisite: permission of instructor; recommended: PUBPOL 527 View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 528 PUBPOL 529 Advanced Quantitative Methods for Policy Analysis (4) Teaches students more advanced quantitative methods applied to program evaluation and policy analysis. Students develop ability to do independent research by developing skills in assessing data qualities, research design, and appropriate application of a variety of quantitative methods. Prerequisite: permission of instructor; recommended: PUBPOL 527, PUBPOL 528 View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 529 PUBPOL 531 Development Management and Governance (4) Addresses the connections linking governance systems, the management and implementation of public policies, and policy and program outcomes, with focus on capacities and strategies of a broad array of actors engaged in international development. Covers management challenges faced by government bureaucracies and civil society actors, the changing landscape of development assistance, public sector reforms, and human rights in development context. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 531 PUBPOL 532 International Development Capstone (2) Provides students the opportunity to interact with professionals in the field during panel discussions. Students produce a short summative paper as a final project. Students will have completed the preceding International Development Certificate Program (IDCP) core courses: PUBPOL 531 and PUBPOL 533. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 532 PUBPOL 533 Economics of International Development (4) Economics of International Development critically examines the validity and reliability of most common economic development indicators of poverty, growth and inequality, and provides an overview of, and basic literacy around, international macroeconomic topics including debt, aid, trade and financial markets. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 533 PUBPOL 534 Food and Agricultural Policy in Developing Countries (4) Provides an understanding of the role of agriculture in economic development. Examines frontier policy issues in developing countries related to food security and agricultural production. The emphasis is on developing a nuanced understanding of contemporary food and agricultural policy issues, with a firm grounding in theory and history. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 534 PUBPOL 535 American Foreign Policy (4) Examines how the U.S. foreign policy process works, emphasizing formation, content, and implementation of post-Cold War U.S. foreign and national security policy, with emphasis on current foreign and national security policy. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 535 PUBPOL 536 Diagnosing and Reforming Corrupt Systems (4) Corruption - one of the greatest obstacles to social, economic, and political development around the world - has become a focal point for efforts to improve public sector performance. This course explores strategies for the prevention and mitigation of corruption across a range of contexts and takes an action-oriented approach, drawing lessons from corruption cases and focusing on what approaches might be undertaken under different circumstances. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 536 PUBPOL 537 Topics in International Affairs (3-5, max. 20) Examines selected topics of interest and import in foreign policy and international affairs or development. Focuses on an in-depth analysis of policy issues considering economic, institutional, and political dimensions. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 537 PUBPOL 538 International Organizations and Ocean Management (3) Survey of the manner in which international regimes and organizations attempt to manage and regulate the uses of the ocean. Primary emphasis is on the analysis of the effectiveness of regimes and of processes that support or constrain these organizations. Prerequisite: SMEA 500 or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with SMEA 507. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 538 PUBPOL 539 Values in International Development (4) Examines and clarifies international development values, including underlying theories of justice on which they seem to be built, the ways in which they are justified to stakeholders, the general public, and impacts they have upon people, especially the poorest and most vulnerable. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 539 PUBPOL 540 Advanced Policy Analysis (4) Provides a more critical view of policy analysis by taking a deep dive into topics related to policy analysis and questioning underlying assumptions while conceptualizing policy analysis within societal structures. Recommended: PUBPOL 513. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 540 PUBPOL 541 The Role of Nongovernmental Organizations in International Development (4) Explores issues faced by nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) working in developing and transition countries, including perspectives from international and indigenous NGOs and community-based organizations. Topics covered include relationships between NGOs and the state, the market, intended beneficiaries, and funder relationships. Key issues discussed include the challenges of funding, participation, advocacy humanitarianism, and social change. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 541 PUBPOL 542 Computational Thinking for Governance Analytics (4) Combines data science and computational social science in a policy studies structure. Introduces algorithmic thinking and develops good practices in reproducibility for professional work in policy research. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 542 PUBPOL 543 Visual Analytics for Policy and Management (4) Provides students with visualization tools to show insights to political or scientific communities, while presenting different strategies to avoid biased interpretations. Emphasis on the building of templates to produce information. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 543 PUBPOL 544 Tax Policy and Analysis (4) Provides theoretical and empirical tools to analyze current tax policy and proposed tax reforms. Prerequisite: either PUBPOL 517 and PUBPOL 528, or permission of instructor View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 544 PUBPOL 547 Water Resource Economics (4) Explores the economics of water resources, including static and dynamic efficiency for consumers and producers and other topics concerned with water quality. Explores effects of climate change on water resources, and economic approaches to mitigate these effects. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 547 PUBPOL 550 Managing Nonprofit and Philanthropic Organizations (4) Focuses on the roles and practices of nonprofit and philanthropic organizations. Provides an overview of topics relevant to nonprofit and social sector organizations, including theoretical foundations, legal forms, governance and leadership, cross-sector relationships, revenue streams and fundraising, and policy advocacy. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 550 PUBPOL 551 Measuring Social Impact: Advanced Program Design and Evaluation (4) Topics covered include applying theory of change and design thinking to evaluation; formative and process evaluation; qualitative and participatory approaches; new approaches in quasi-experimental and experimental methods, and evaluating advocacy and collective impact. Prerequisite: instructor permission; recommended: PUBPOL 526 View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 551 PUBPOL 552 Philanthropy and Society (4) Provides students a holistic background of the philanthropic sector. Begins with an in-depth analysis of history and context and ends with a discussion of current strategies and approaches to giving by foundations. Builds in sequence: history, context, sub-sectors, accountability, and results. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 552 PUBPOL 553 Nonprofit Financial Management (4) Provides an understanding of the financial framework on nonprofit organizations. Focuses on the financial principles of management of nonprofits, with an emphasis on financial reporting, strategic financial planning, managerial decision-making and budgeting. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 553 PUBPOL 554 Nonprofit Organizations and Public Policy (3) Examines the changing role of nonprofit organizations in American society. Selected policy topics include privatization, for-profit/nonprofit competition, public-private partnerships, tax policy, and new sources of revenues. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 554 PUBPOL 555 Topics in Nonprofit Management, Philanthropy, and Social Enterprise (3-5, max. 20) Covers a range of topics applied to nonprofit, philanthropic, and social enterprise organizations. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 555 PUBPOL 556 Public-Private Partnerships (4) Provides a comprehensive overview and examination of partnerships and their implications for public policy and nonprofit and public management. Examines the diverse array of partnerships in the UW and abroad and the management challenges involved in the development and implementation of different partnership strategies. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 556 PUBPOL 557 Financial Modeling for the Public Sector (4) Covers financial modeling concepts at the core of public sector finance including: cash flow (or revenue) forecasting and proforma financial statements, capital life-cycle cost analysis, portfolio valuation and risk management, debt sizing, structure, and refinancing. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 557 PUBPOL 558 Collaboration and Management Across Sectors (4) Organizations from different sectors (public, business, nonprofit) increasingly work together to achieve unique, collaborative outcomes. Managing cross-sector relationships presents dynamic process and governance challenges that go well beyond the difficulties of managing within an organization. Explores the opportunities and risks involved in working across organizational boundaries. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 558 PUBPOL 559 Advanced Performance Management: Quadruple Bottom Line Lab (4) Examines the Quadruple Bottom Line as a conceptual framework and emerging set of tools for a more comprehensive and balanced accounting of organizational and institutional behavior and outcomes related to economic efficiency, social equity, environmental sustainability, and creative cultural vitality. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 559 PUBPOL 560 Inequality, Governance, and Policy in the Metropolitan Region (3/4) Explores national/local urban policy concerning the major problems confronting cities and metropolitan regions today. Economic globalization, income inequality, and metropolitan decentralization shape the urban agenda, the context for urban policy, and the analytic focus of the course. A project allows the exploration of strategies for intervention. Offered: jointly with URBDP 560. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 560 PUBPOL 561 Urban Economics and Public Policy (4) Examines the rationale for and consequences of public intervention in urban land, housing, and transportation markets through land use regulations such as zoning and growth management, infrastructure investments, and fiscal policies to manage urban development and traffic. Prerequisite: successful completion of an introductory microeconomics course or permission of the instructor. Offered: jointly with URBDP 561. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 561 PUBPOL 562 Immigration Policy (4) Builds foundational knowledge of American immigration policy, providing students with the conceptual and analytical tools required to critically evaluate any and all arguments made in current policy debates, and to move toward making unique and original contributions to those debates. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 562 PUBPOL 563 Intergroup Relations and Public Policy (4) Explores how social psychological research on intergroup relations is pertinent to various aspects of public policy. Includes historical and current perspectives. Examines how the literature describes how individuals perceive, judge, and feel about individuals from various social groups. The groups discussed ranges from minimal groups to classic social groups. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 563 PUBPOL 564 Housing and Social Policy (4) Provides an overview of the field of housing policy and its interrelationships with social problems in the United States. Explores various dimensions of housing problems with an emphasis on housing affordability and examines the primary policy tools used to respond to housing problems. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 564 PUBPOL 565 Topics in Urban Affairs (3-5, max. 20) Examines various topics of public importance in urban policy. Integrates the political, managerial, economic, and technical dimensions of these issues. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 565 PUBPOL 566 Community Economic Development (4) Explores the relationship between local community economic development, environmental sustainability, cultural vitality, and trend in regional and national economics, with specific focus on how to make community and economic investments that yield development outcomes that contribute to economic, equitable, environmental, and cultural vitality. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 566 PUBPOL 567 Community Engagement and Urban Governance (4) Investigates interactions between citizen participation and efforts to measure and improve policy and program performance in large cities. Develops analytic frameworks and practical strategies for sustaining and enhancing participation and performance. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 567 PUBPOL 568 Social Justice and Public Policy (3/4) Examines the values of social justice that motivate action in the public arena; thinks about how those values create concerns and solutions; and explores issues of equity and liberty, of balancing the rights of the individual, the common good, and redistribution. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 568 PUBPOL 569 Race and Public Policy (3-4) Analyzes the way in which the persistent problem of race is expressed in the formation and implementation of social and public policy. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 569 PUBPOL 570 Foundations of Social Policy (3) Examines major institutions and programs in social policy including: income maintenance, social services, education, and healthcare. Focuses on American social policy with some attention to comparative welfare state development. Includes extensive discussion of different policy strategies to address social policy problems. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 570 PUBPOL 571 Education, The Workforce, and Public Policy (4) Examination of policy issues involving education, training, the economy, and the development of the nation's human resources. Relationship between education, training, and work, and among the various levels of the education system, underutilized workers, race and gender issues, and the role of education and training in economic development. Offered: jointly with EDLPS 563. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 571 PUBPOL 572 Race and Equity in Policy and Governance (2, max. 4) An introduction for understanding race and equity in policy and governance. Power, privilege, and disadvantage are distributed based on race, skin color, and ethnicity. Develop the ability to identify and critique racist or racialized policies and management practices; examine your own experience of race, privilege, and oppression; and learn to use tools for increasing racial equity and inclusion in public, nonprofit, and private sectors. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 572 PUBPOL 573 Topics in Education and Social Policy (3-5, max. 20) Examines various issues of public importance in the areas of education and social policy. Focuses on in-depth analysis of relevant issues and the integration of the economic, administrative, and political dimensions of these issues. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 573 PUBPOL 574 Economics of Race and Inequality in the United States (3/4) Covers the history of racial inequality over the past century, theories of the causes, wage determination and discrimination in employment and pay, inequalities in education and human capital development, and residential segregation and its consequences. Discusses the effectiveness and limitations of policy response to racial inequality. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 574 PUBPOL 575 Taxes and Social Policy (4) Examines major areas of social policy that interact with the tax system. Prerequisite: either PUBPOL 517 and PUBPOL 528, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 575 PUBPOL 576 Poverty and Anti-Poverty in the United States (4) Examines the nature and extent of poverty in the United States, its causes and consequences, and the antipoverty effects of public policies. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 576 PUBPOL 577 Economics of Health Policy (4) Uses an economic perspective to examine a variety of issues related to the provision of medical care in the United States. Topics include medical care demand, the role of health insurance, the health and financial consequences of being without insurances, health care spending, and the Affordable Care Act. Prerequisite: instructor permission; recommended: PUBPOL 517 View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 577 PUBPOL 578 Asset Building for Low Income Families (4) Explores assets and finances for low income families primarily in the United States. Identifies programs and policies targeted toward asset building and looks at evidence of their efficacy. Uses a multi-disciplinary perspective to examine the economic, social, and political contexts for these policies. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 578 PUBPOL 579 Child Well-being and Public Policy (4) Covers the contexts of child well-being, the arguments for government intervention during childhood, and 4-5 specific topics in child policy. Integrates theory and evidence from Developmental Psychology, Economics, Sociology, and Social Neuroscience. Focuses on US Federal, state, and local policies. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 579 PUBPOL 582 Communicating Climate Change (4) Surveys climate change communications and their role in achieving climate change policy goals. Assesses the ethics and science of climate change communication. Explores theories and frameworks to evaluate and improve climate change communications. Examines the role of climate change communication as a policy tool. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 582 PUBPOL 583 Science, Technology, and Public Policy (4) Examines the relationship between the advancement of technical knowledge, the pace of technological change, and public policies designed to induce or respond to these development. Issues of policy formulation, administrative design, and future trends; applications include biotechnology, energy, information technology, global warming, robotics, national security, homeland security, and space exploration. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 583 PUBPOL 585 Topics in Science, Technology, and Public Policy (3-5) Examines relationship between advancement of technical knowledge and pace of technological change, and public policies to induce or respond to these trends. Generic issues of government research, development, and personnel training programs are addressed. Applications of policy issues involving biomedical, communications, energy, environmental, transportation, and weapons technologies. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 585 PUBPOL 587 Native Nations, Native Lands, Native Waters (4) Examines the ways that Native Nations in the US function as self-governing sovereigns and the ways that Native Nations govern their lands and waters. Considers how Native Nations interact with other governments and the consequences of those interactions. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 587 PUBPOL 589 Risk Assessment for Environmental Health Hazards (4) Examines context, methodologies, data, uncertainties, and institutional arrangements for risk assessment. Qualitative and quantitative approaches to identification, characterization, and control of environmental hazards to health emphasized through didactic and case studies. Offered: jointly with CEWA 560/ENV H 577; A. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 589 PUBPOL 590 Environmental Policy (4) Presents background to establish the need for environmental policy. Explores in a comparative manner, examining both successes and failures, various strategies that have been used or proposed to protect the environment. Explores different policy tools for environmental protection, including command-and-control regulation, market-based incentives, third-party certifications, and collaborative partnerships. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 590 PUBPOL 592 Resource Policy and Administration (4) Study based on understanding of the actors, arenas, issues, and policy communities that form the context for policy development and implementation. Exploration of approaches to policy inquiry. Consideration of implications for both policy and management. Students develop a study design for course project. Offered: jointly with SEFS 571. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 592 PUBPOL 593 Climate Change and Energy Policy (4) Energy policy formulation and implementation with emphasis on post-1973 developments. Energy conservation programs; changing roles of oil, coal, gas, nuclear, and solar energy; institutional, environmental, and equity considerations; government research and development programs. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 593 PUBPOL 594 Economic Approaches to Environmental Management (4) Examines the economic tools relevant to natural resource and environmental management. Tools are developed in the context of a series of resource problems, with an eye towards building intuition useful for addressing complex policy problems that do not fit neatly into textbook examples. Prerequisite: PUBPOL 516; PUBPOL 517; PUBPOL 527; PUBPOL 528 View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 594 PUBPOL 595 Topics in Environmental Policy and Management (3-5, max. 20) Examines various topics of public importance in environmental policy and management. Integrates the political, managerial, and economic dimensions of these issues. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 595 PUBPOL 596 Environmental Risks and Values (4) Explores a range of sources of risk to human health and the environment, and the values that color communication, perception, and decision making about risk. This topic lies at the core of an ongoing conversation between communities, governments, scientists, the media, and others. Topics include energy, climate, water supply, emerging technology, and environmental justice. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 596 PUBPOL 597 Environmental Decision Analysis (4) Examines how science contributes to decisions that involve the natural environment; how science and scientists help frame debates and decisions; how scientific findings are incorporated into decision-making processes; how scientists and non-scientists deal with uncertainty about scientific questions. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 597 PUBPOL 598 Administrative and Policy Professional Skills Workshop (1-3, max. 12) Teaches practical administrative, leadership, and analytic skills commonly required of managers and analysts in the public and nonprofit sectors. The workshops emphasize hands-on problem resolution, simulations, and actual practice. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 598 PUBPOL 599 Special Topics (1-6, max. 28) Study and analysis of special topics in public affairs. Topics vary each quarter depending on curricular needs and interests of students and faculty. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 599 PUBPOL 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Evans School MPA students only. By arrangement with instructor. See current Time Schedule for link to application. Refer to Evans School MPA Student Handbook for details. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 600 PUBPOL 605 Degree Project ([1-8]-) Evans School MPA students only. By arrangement with instructor. See current Time Schedule for link to application. Refer to Evans School MPA Student Handbook for details. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 605 PUBPOL 608 Capstone Project Seminar ([4-8]-) Meets the capstone project requirements as part of the Evans School MPA curriculum. Students work in a supportive seminar environment facilitated by peers and faculty to complete team-based capstone degree projects. View course details in MyPlan: PUBPOL 608 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022