Skip Navigation menu search Sign-ons CyMail Outlook Canvas AccessPlus Workday More Directory Maps Contact Us Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Accounts Receivable menu Home Students Incoming Students Currently Enrolled International Students Sponsored Student Past Due Students Loans Receivable Parents ISU Departments Other Customers Contact Us Forms Welcome Students! What is a U-Bill? The U-Bill, short for University Bill, is how Iowa State University will present charges including but not limited to tuition, fees, residence hall, and meal plans to you for payment. The U-Bill is electronic, created on the 1st of each month, and due on the 20th. The Accounts Receivable Office will email your @iastate.edu email address when the bill is available to view in AccessPlus The U-Bill is your responsibility as it is your name on the account. Information will not be shared with parents or other guardians without your authorization Student To-Do List: Complete in AccessPlus ACCOUNT INFO RELEASE - Until this is completed, the only person that can discuss the details of your U-Bill is you THIRD PARTY ACCESS - Until this is completed, the only person that can view the U-Bill is you DIRECT DEPOSIT - In the event of a credit balance, direct deposit is recommended for a speedy refund How can I pay? Online - pay with your checking account and routing number in AccessPlus Drop Box - located on the ground floor of Beardshear Hall, you can drop off a check or certified funds Mail - send check or certified funds to: ISU Treasurer's Office 1220 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011 Educational Savings Accounts / 529 Plan - start by contacting your plan administrator to find out what they require to release funds Employer Reimbursement Deferment Plan - all applicable charges will be due after grades are presented with successful enrollment in the deferment plan prior to the beginning of each semester for employees of businesses and organizations that provide tuition reimbursement programs Are payment plans available? Pay In Full - Pay account balance list on U-Bill by due dates; you may have additional miscellaneous charges throughout the semester Deferred Billing Plan - $20 fee per semester, 3 installments per semester, pay minimum due listed on U-Bill to enroll Monthly Payment Plan - $50 annual fee, covers only Fall/Spring charges, auto-debit from checking or savings account on the 20th each month (required), sign up is done in AccessPlus and open through mid-July Why do I need to set up Direct Deposit? REFUNDS - Available Financial Aid is applied directly to charges on your U-Bill about 4-5 days before classes begin. Any overpayment is refunded through direct deposit into the checking or savings account of your choosing. Set up your direct deposit account in AccessPlus Information included in the orientation slides below are for the 2021/2022 academic year. View the complete orientation slideshow for domestic students and families Orientation Slides (PDF) View the complete orientation slideshow for international students and families Orientation Slides - International (PDF) Educational Tax Credit (1098-T) The tax form 1098-T can be found on your AccessPlus account under the Student tab and Tax Info (1098) Accounts Receivable Office, 0880 Beardshear Hall, 515-294-7388, ubill@iastate.edu. Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved.