Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Adult and Organizational Development Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Adult and Organizational Development Major Apply Visit Request More Info Adult and Organizational Development Major Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Adult and Organizational Development Temple University’s Bachelor of Arts in Adult and Organizational Development is comprehensive and systems-focused, and will help you to develop the skills and knowledge you need to be an effective change agent in any organization. Become a leader who guides individuals, organizations and teams through the challenging process of adapting to change. The Adult and Organizational Development degree can be completed on Main Campus in Philadelphia. It pushes you to conquer the complexity of communication styles to identify different styles and what they can reveal about the roots of conflicts; develop effective instructional strategies to facilitate adult and team learning, and then design and implement effective training programs; and master the peacemaking process, in order to recognize and mediate different conflict types and negotiate appropriate resolutions for communities, families, organizations and schools. You’ll also finish your degree program by completing a field assignment at one of the hundreds of community groups, corporations, government agencies, schools and social service agencies in the Philadelphia area. In addition, you’ll observe how management and staff lead teams, manage change, mediate conflicts, and train adults in the social context of a bustling, culturally diverse region. Related Graduate Degrees Advocacy and Organizational Development MEd Related Graduate Certificates Institutional Effectiveness See the full list of the College of Education’s graduate degree and graduate certificate programs. +1 Accelerated Programs For particularly focused students, the College of Education and Human Development offers accelerated programs, which include the Adult & Organizational Development BA and the Advocacy & Organizational Development MEd. Qualified students earn a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in one five-year course of study, instead of taking the usual six years. Learn more about the College of Education and Human Development’s +1 accelerated programs. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. It also presents opportunities to give back to the community, either locally or globally. Explore the opportunities available through organizations such as Be The Change, an organization that provides education and healthcare services to communities in North Philadelphia and overseas; Black Diamonds Union, which works to celebrate and disseminate education about black culture at Temple University and in Philadelphia’s wider urban community; College of Education and Human Development Student Council, a group that provides students with leadership opportunities and a chance to effect change; Grandma’s Kids, a K through grade 5 afterschool program that focuses on homework, as well as academic, emotional and social support; Jumpstart, a national early education organization that trains students to work with preschool children in low-income neighborhoods; Kappa Delta Pi Honor Society, which promotes academic excellence and a network for those who are committed to teaching; The Petey Greene Program at Temple University, an organization that supports prisoner education by training volunteers to provide weekly tutoring sessions to inmates in four correctional facilities in Philadelphia; Temple University - Students Teaching Underrepresented Developing Youth (TU-STUDY), a group that assists children and adults in the greater Philadelphia area with advising, tutoring and other kinds of support in overcoming learning challenges; Temple Student Pennsylvania State Education Association, which increases esteem for educational professions among teacher candidates, constructively affects the process of teacher education and represents students regarding these issues; and Treehouse Books, a literacy center near Temple’s Main Campus where students can engage in literacy service work. Search for additional College of Education and Human Development and education-related student organizations. Program Contact Shanta Hattikudur, associate professor of instruction, is the program coordinator of the Adult and Organizational Development Major. Phone: 215-204-6101 Email: shanta@temple.edu Our Academic Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. College of Education and Human Development students are encouraged to see an academic advisor every semester. Study Away Opportunities Education majors gain experience teaching English overseas in Chile, China, South Korea and other countries. Learn more about studying abroad and explore a list of government-sponsored teaching abroad scholarships. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-AOD-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Adult and Organizational Development Major Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info