Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Commencement Office Apply to Graduate Graduates Accommodations Diplomas Guests Faculty Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduates Graduating Students Attendance & Non-Attendance Form Program Proof Cord & Stole Policy Student Speaker Selection Conduct Guidelines Dress Undergraduates Undergraduate ChecklistHonors Distinction Graduate Students Graduate Student ChecklistGraduate School RequirementsHooding Information Law Law Student ChecklistLaw School Information Cap and Gown Pick up Announcer Information Record Difficult Name Graduation Analyst College School List Diagrams Invitations Photos Alumni /FAM Membership FAQs for Graduates Take Action Current News Commencement Attendance Form Commencement Live Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutube Home Commencement Office Graduates Cap and Gown Pick-up Cap and Gown Pick-up Picking up your cap and gown will occur 1-2 days prior to YOUR Commencement ceremony. wHAT DO i NEED? In order to pick up your cap and gown, you will need to be approved for graduation, name must be in the Commencement program, and you must have completed Step 4 (The Attendance/Non-Attendance Form). Step 4 Confirmation Page (screenshot confirmation on your mobile device). During cap and gown pick up, you will also receive your pronouncer card. Graduate Students do not receive academic honors cords but can wear cords from their undergraduate study. Pronouncer cards Pronouncer cards are received when you pick up your cap and gown. All students participating in the event must have a pronouncer card in order to participate. Do NOT lose or leave your pronouncer card. You will be unable to participate if you do not bring this card. Use the number on your pronouncer card to line yourself up when you arrive and find your college lineup. Hold on to the card throughout the event. (Good tip: Wear an outfit with pockets.) You will hand the card to the Pronouncer Assistant who will use the card to say your name during your graduation moment. Instructions for Wearing Regalia Hood (Doctoral, Specialist, Master and Law) To insure proper fit of your hood, we suggest that men wear a dress shirt and women wear a blouse with buttons or a suit. Hold the hood in your hand by the velvet at the narrowest point. The loop should be hanging straight down. Grasp the loop in your right hand and place the hood over your head so the loop continues to hang straight down in front of your neck. Fasten the loop over a button on your shirt/blouse or jacket, or you may pin it in place. This will prevent the hood from pressing on your throat. Midway down the back of the hood you will find another satin cord and loop. Fasten this loop around the button on the inside of the hood to prevent the hood from falling off your shoulders. This may require the assistance of another person. Be sure to have someone "fluff" the back of the hood just below the button, by turning the velvet side underneath to expose the satin colors on the inside. When/Where do I return my cap and gown? Gowns and hoods are rentals and MUST be returned in the same way received. All items should be returned after Commencement to the vendor truck (located downstairs behind the stage) If you wish to keep your regalia (cap, gown and hood) to take pictures, you have ONE week to return it to the Commencement Office, 101 Brister Hall, 8:00 am - 4:30 pm (M-F) There is a tag to identify each gown and hat. Unable to attend distribution day If you are unable to pick up your cap and gown or if you are not attending Commencement, see more information below: Send a Designee If you are unable to pick up your cap and gown, you can send a designee on your behalf. You must contact the Commencement Office via email with your name, name of designee and stating permission. The designee must bring a photo ID to pick up your items. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/1/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.