Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Network Accessibility Network right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow About us Accessibility Commitment and Policy EIT Accessibility Plan FAQ's Accessibility 101 right arrow down arrow Accessibility Definitions Documents right arrow down arrow Microsoft Excel Accessibility right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint right arrow down arrow Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Websites right arrow down arrow Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Video & Media right arrow down arrow Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Purchasing right arrow down arrow Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist Canvas right arrow down arrow Ally for Canvas Course Syllabus Create an Accessible Canvas Course Checklist Training right arrow down arrow Digital Inclusion Day right arrow down arrow Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training right arrow down arrow Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Home » About UC » Electronic Accessibility » Purchasing » Procurement Policy Set Navigation title in component Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist Accessibility Procurement Policy In accordance with the University of Cincinnati’s Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) Policy 9.2.1, electronic and information resources and content will be procured, implemented and managed in a way to be accessible to individuals with disabilities and support compliance with applicable requirements of relevant federal, state and local non-discrimination laws. In order for the university to be successful in procuring accessible EIT, purchasers must consider and inquire about accessibility as early as possible, preferably at the beginning of the purchasing process. Determining the degree of accessibility—and comparing the results with other potential options—is a key part of selecting a new EIT product. The Accessibility Network is available to assist individuals with accessibility in the procurement process at any time and answer questions about the procedures that follow. This includes, but is not limited to, questions concerning Voluntary Product Review Template (VPAT) assessment, product testing, risk assessment, and mitigation options when gaps in accessibility may be present. The Accessibility Procurement Process The following section details how to incorporate accessibility into the purchasing process. Request an Accessibility Conformance Report (ACR or VPAT) When considering EIT products for purchase, request the vendor provide an Accessibility Conformance Report (ACR) or VPAT. The vendor will typically provide this information using a Voluntary Product Accessibility Template, or VPAT. A VPAT is a document that asserts the degree to which hardware, software, or online products and services conform to various accessibility requirements, such as the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) or Section 508 requirements. Most often, VPATs are completed internally by the vendor, but occasionally a third party is hired. Lack of a VPAT is likely telling with regard to a product’s potential for an accessible user experience. Competitive Bidding & Request for Proposals (RFP) Competitive bidding is a pricing procedure that solicits bids from potential suppliers and then selects the lowest and best proposal. An accessibility review(s) that assesses accessibility compliance will need to be included with the submitted vendor bids. For more information, refer to the UC Central Purchasing Manual. Initiate an Accessibility Review After receiving a completed conformance report (or VPAT) from the vendor(s), submit the information through an online service request to initiate an accessibility review process. The university’s Accessibility Review Committee will then: Evaluate the degree of accessibility of the potential product(s), Provide support in incorporating accessibility requirements into product testing, And assist in eventual implementation or provide suggestions for alternatives when appropriate. Single Source Purchases On occasion, unique requirements warrant a bid waiver request be made (sometimes referred to as a “single source purchase”), which must be submitted to Central Purchasing. Note that waiving the bidding process does not waive the requirement to conduct an accessibility review of the EIT product prior to its purchase. A single source purchase with no alternatives being considered heightens the need for an accessibility review. Central Purchasing maintains a list of items (non-competitive list) that do not require competition or a bid waiver. Any of these items that are or include electronic or information technology will require an accessibility review be conducted. Contract Rider EIT purchases that include a contract or formal agreement with a vendor will pursue inclusion of an accessibility rider. The language of this rider is currently being developed in coordination with the Office of General Counsel (OGC). Purchase Requisitions & Purchase Cards EIT products procured via purchase requisitions or purchase cards will need an accessibility review prior to purchase. Inter-University Council (IUC) Purchases Some EIT products available for purchase through the IUC may lack an acceptable level of accessibility. Until the IUC process better reflects the standards established in Section 508 of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act and WCAG 2.1, potential products available through this process will also need an accessibility review prior to purchase. Product Renewals Request an updated VPAT from the vendor(s) and an Accessibility Review from the Accessibility Review Committee within 3-6 months of a product’s renewal. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top