Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Financing & Support Internal Funding & Appointments Proctorships Graduate School Skip to Navigation Proctorships Proctorships are non-instructional positions and are offered either through an academic department or degree program, or from other research, training, academic or administrative offices around campus. These positions are intended to foster the professional development and/or research interests of graduate students. Under no circumstances are proctors to be used for general administrative work. Proctorships are awarded by the Graduate School based on an application. Proctors appointed outside of academic departments either provide assistance in the implementation of the appointing office’s ongoing programs, or they engage in other work (research, program development, projects, etc.) that is pre-approved and relevant to the appointing office’s academic objectives. Departmental proctors generally receive full tuition or a tuition scholarship, health insurance, the health services fee, and a stipend; the specific financial terms of these awards will be determined at the time of the appointment. Proposals from nonacademic departments for extra-departmental proctorships that are relevant to students’ professional development or research interests may be made to the Graduate School at any time. Ideally, such proposals will originate as the result of a consultation between a particular campus office and interested graduate student. All proctorship appointments must be approved by the originating department or office, the director of graduate study in the student’s home department, and the Graduate School. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Tuition & Fees Health and Dental Insurance Financial Considerations Master's Funding Ph.D. Funding Internal Funding & Appointments Student Loans Student Employment Student Payroll Procedures Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Five-Year Guarantee Office of Financial Aid Proctorship Position Form (to request a new position: for Chairs/DGSs only) Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants