Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Communication Studies Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Communication Studies Major Apply Visit Request More Info Communication Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Communication Studies The Bachelor of Arts in Communication Studies in the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication at Temple University offers students a unique, interdisciplinary opportunity to study communication. In our Communication Studies degree program, students gain an in-depth understanding of the ever-changing world of communication, while simultaneously focusing on skills that support their personal academic and career interests. Some of the communication skills obtained through this degree program include communicating through multimedia; communication policies and regulations; managing client relationships; and relationships between communication and the public. Through our degree program’s cross-cultural curriculum, students learn practices and theories of communication through the lens of different departments within the college. And with the flexibility of our program, students will be able to explore the different roles communication plays in a variety of industries—from entrepreneurship and social movements to technology and advocacy. You also have the opportunity to make an impact and get directly involved with the program through promoting, recruiting and leading the Communication Studies major—creating a one-of-a-kind educational experience. What sets apart our Bachelor of Arts in Communication Studies? A flexible, student-oriented program: Not only does our program allow students to learn from multiple areas in Klein College, they also have access to various field experiences, internships and study away opportunities. From heavy involvement with our student-athletes, to strong connections to one of the largest Pride celebrations in North America, to the ability to thrive and fully complete the program at our Japan campus—the goal of the Communication Studies program is for you to get the most out of your education. Award-winning national honors society: Our program’s chapter of Lambda Pi Eta, the official student honors society, has been named 2020 Chapter of the Year. Established in 2012, our ongoing efforts and creative initiatives have allowed our chapter to stand out among the more than 500 other chapters around the country. Students in our program’s chapter have often earned full-paid positions by the time they graduate. Our renowned faculty: Students get to work directly with the Communication Studies director for the entirety of their time in the program. With the program director, Scott Gratson, they are able to make their program experience as unique as they are. And, due to the interdisciplinary nature of the program, faculty from across the college work with students to access a diverse array of companies, organizations and professionals to get them started in a career in the industry or on the path to an advanced degree. Endless post-graduation opportunities: After learning about the diverse roles communication plays in the field from various Klein departments, students will be prepared for a number of careers and graduate programs after they complete their degree. Gillian Black, KLN ’21 Bachelor of Arts in Communication Studies In her Argumentation Advocacy course, Gillian worked with classmates to research parental incarceration in Philadelphia. She credits Klein with providing opportunities to explore diverse subjects. “I’ve been able to explore different, interdisciplinary topics throughout the Communication Studies program,” she said. Gillian, who is on the program’s Entrepreneurship track, plans to pursue a career in fashion journalism. Read more. Classes & Curriculum Students in the program complete 124 credits, including a minimum of 42 credits in communication studies courses and at least nine credits in foreign language courses. Some of the major courses include Communication and Public Life, Media and Society, and Special Topics in Communication and Social Influence. Learn more about courses and requirements for the Communication Studies Major. Minors Communication Studies The Communication Studies minor is an 18-credit program that focuses on the academic and interdisciplinary study of media. You will explore the role communication plays in various fields and disciplines throughout Klein College while learning about the overarching concept of communication as a whole. Students who pursue a minor in Communication Studies will have the skills and knowledge to continue their education through a plethora of graduate programs or embark on a number of diverse roles and opportunities. Learn more about the Communication Studies minor. Contact Scott Gratson, director of Communication Studies, is the program contact for this minor. Email: sgratson@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-6434 International Communication The International Communication minor, which is restricted to students outside of Klein College, provides experience in international and intercultural communication and media. Through this 20-credit minor, students develop competencies in cultural sensitivity and intercultural communication. Typically held in-person on Temple’s domestic campuses, this minor may be supplemented with study abroad coursework. Learn more about the Minor in International Communication. Concentrations In the Communication Studies program, students can choose to focus on a concentration that shapes their curriculum and learning outcomes. By selecting one of the following concentrations, you can take courses that are tailored to your goals and interests, and get on the path that is best for you once you complete the program. Communication Studies Thesis The Communication Studies Thesis track is ideal for students who want an interdisciplinary curriculum that meets their individual interests but goes beyond the other tracks available in the program. The thesis track allows you to work individually with a faculty advisor from the Klein College department that best fits your interests to build a curriculum that is unique to you and your personal, educational and professional goals. The curriculum should contain five courses, four of which must be upper-level and include courses from at least three Klein College majors. Your personalized curriculum and the courses you select should be designed to lead to a senior-year thesis. Learn more about the Communication Studies Thesis track. View Concentration Details Communication and Entrepreneurship Through the Communication and Entrepreneurship track, students study the relationship between communication and free enterprise. The curriculum focuses on the communicative and functional components of entrepreneurship, and dives into how organizational development affects the field. Through courses in business, ethics, law and technology you will gain the skills necessary to thrive in an entrepreneurial environment and understand the impact of capitalism in the field. Learn more about the Communication and Entrepreneurship track. View Concentration Details Contemporary Media Environments The Contemporary Media Environments track provides students with a comprehensive understanding of the historical evolution of communication methods—from the rotary press to broadcasting, the internet and beyond. Students study the way these methods of communication shape life around them and all over the globe. The track also introduces students to theories on the relationship between media technology and society. Learn more about the Contemporary Media Environments track. View Concentration Details Global Civil Society Examine the emergence of global civil society including social movements, historical development and the growing international public sphere. The curriculum for this Communication Studies track provides students with in-depth knowledge of global mediascapes, international relations, public diplomacy and public opinion. Learn more about the Global Civil Society track. View Concentration Details International Communication Students in the International Communication Concentration (ICC) acquire a theoretical and practical education in international and intercultural communication and media. A unique opportunity for Klein students, this program allows you to obtain skills and knowledge in cultural sensitivity and intercultural communication by reflecting on your own cultural lens. Students participating in the ICC program are enlightened about various perspectives through an internationally and interculturally oriented curriculum. The program is offered on Temple’s domestic campuses, but students can supplement some coursework while studying abroad. View Concentration Details Policy, Regulation and Advocacy The Policy, Regulation and Advocacy track delves into citizen advocacy in the field of communication and how it is shaped by diverse policies and regulations. Through this track, you develop a deep understanding of groundbreaking examples of citizen advocacy in communication policy through the examination of art and performance, civic journalism, and social movements. You also gain knowledge about historical and recent events involving special-interest groups tied to issues surrounding the environment, ethnicity, gender, race and sexual orientation. View Concentration Details Production The Production track provides an overview of varying technologies used in media production—from traditional methods to current multimedia platforms. Students expand their knowledge of communication and develop the skills needed to succeed in a variety of professional fields including filmmaking, television and radio. In this track, you develop an in-depth understanding of fiction and nonfiction narratives, as well as how media components such as audio, editing and photography contribute to attention-grabbing media production. Currently, the Production track is only available to Temple Japan students. Related Graduate Degrees Communication Management MS Journalism MJ Media Studies and Production MA Related Graduate Certificates Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution Public Relations Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership Related Undergraduate Certificates Sports Media Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $18,168.00 per year Out-of-state: $31,440.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Scott Gratson, director of communication studies at Lew Klein College of Media and Communication, is the academic advisor for this program. Email: sgratson@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-6434 Program Contact For more information about the Bachelor of Arts in Communication Studies program, please contact Scott Gratson, director of communication studies at Lew Klein College of Media and Communication. Email: sgratson@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-6434 Student Clubs & Organizations Joining a student organization can affect your career and college experience in meaningful ways. Not only will you learn how to work with a team, you’ll also gain access to exciting projects, peer support and valuable networking opportunities. Below are examples of student clubs and organizations that can help you excel as a communication studies student. Communication Studies and Media Arts Collective brings students together to assemble communication research, artistic projects and campaigns that contribute to a functioning civil society on campus and in the world. LatinX Media Association provides extracurricular enrichment, opportunities, professional development and support to LatinX students and students interested in LatinX media, communication and culture, while strengthening representation and visibility at Klein College. Queer Student Union provides a safe social space to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex and asexual (LGBTQIA+) students while exploring issues relevant to the larger community, including civil rights, hate crime topics, health, racism within the LGBTQIA+ community and transphobia. By joining this club and enrolling in Klein's Communication Studies Pride course (CSI 3100), students in the program have the opportunity to immerse themselves in one of the biggest Pride parades in the nation, as well as grow their connection with the LGBTQIA+ community. Learn more about student clubs and organizations available to Communication Studies Major students. Study Away Take on new challenges, experiences and viewpoints in an array of academic settings in the U.S. or around the world, through the Communication Studies Major’s Global Opportunities programs. Our Global Opportunities programs create leaders in media and communication by providing opportunities to study and work while experiencing life in influential urban centers throughout the world. You have the option of studying or interning in more than 20 destinations in the U.S. and around the world, including Dublin, London, Los Angeles, South Africa and more. And, with this program's viable and powerful bridge with our friends in Japan, Communication Studies students have a unique opportunity to complete the program at our Temple Japan campus. It’s one of the top two programs on the TUJ campus. These study away programs are designed to not only enhance your marketability in the global workplace, but also to increase your cultural capital and support your personal growth. Learn more about study away programs for Communication Studies Major. Questions Representatives from our Global Opportunities office are available to answer any questions you may have. Email: kleingo@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-2354 CO-CMST-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Communication Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info