Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Hispanic Studies Graduate Students Hispanic Studies Graduate Students STUDENTS OFFICE HOURS Ali Browder is a Ph.D. student from Florida. She received her B.A. in Spanish and Russian from Johns Hopkins University in 2015 and studied at la Universidad de la Rioja in 2014. Her research deals primarily with humor in medieval and early modern literature. (Maria) Florencia Chiaramonte is a Ph.D. student from Mar del Plata, Argentina. She holds a professorship in literature from Mar del Plata National University. Her interests include 20th and 21th Century Latin American narrative and film, as well as the role of fictional means toward understanding the history and politics of the region. In addition, she is interested in exploring the literature of immigration and border studies. Mateo Díaz Choza is a Ph.D. student from Lima, Peru. He holds a B.A. in Peruvian and Latin American Literature from Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos. His current interests include 20th and 21th Century Latin American Narrative, as well as the relationship between religious discourse, utopia, fundamentalism and fiction. Ben Easton is PhD student from Akron, Ohio. He received his BA in Spanish and English Literature from the University of Notre Dame in 2018 and an MA in Iberian and Latin American Literatures in 2019. His research deals primarily with the institutional construction of imperial subjects as represented in Early Modern Iberian Literature, with a special interest in the picaresque novel. Ana Garriga is a PhD student from Spain. She received her BA in Spanish Philology from Universidad Autónoma de Madrid and completed her Masters in Hispanic Literature at the same university. After her masters, she spent six months at UC Berkeley as a Fulbright Visiting Scholar in the Department of Spanish & Portuguese. Her current interests include the crisis of representation of the Baroque (both in Spain and Spanish America), early modern notions of truth and falsehood, the economic crisis of Spain in the seventeenth century, alchemy, and material culture. She has also worked on Saint Teresa of Avila and the practice of letter-writing in the early modern period. Sandra Huaringa Niño is a PhD student from Huánuco, Perú. She holds a BA in Hispanic Literature and a BA in Journalism from Pontificia Universidad Católica del Perú (Lima, Perú). Her undergraduate thesis deals with the representation of the ruling woman in the epic poem Corona trágica by Lope de Vega. Prior to coming to the United States, she's been a working journalist for over five years writing about politics, sports, arts and culture. Her current academic interests are Women's Writing of the Golden Age period, the dramatic work of Lope de Vega and the relations between Elizabethan theatre and the Spanish comedia nueva. Mai Hunt is a PhD Student from Boston. She received her BA in Romance Languages and Literatures from Harvard University. After graduating, she spent two years in Madrid working with the Fulbright Program as an English teaching assistant. Her interests center on family narratives of trauma, memory and inheritance in contemporary Colombian literature and film. Alba Lara Granero is a PhD student from Spain. She holds both a BA in Spanish philology (2011) and an MAT (2012) from the Universidad Complutense de Madrid. After three years devoted to secondary education, she was awarded an Iowa Arts Fellowship to pursue an MFA in Spanish Creative Writing (2016) at the University of Iowa. Her current research interests include women's writing, feminism, critical theory, medieval and early modern female authors, and literary theory. Regina Pieck is a PhD student from Mexico City. She has studied at el Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México (ITAM), Harvard University, and Boston College. Her interests include 20th-century and contemporary Latin American literature, the literature and cinema of the Mexican Revolution, borderlands, and literary theory. David Parsard is a PhD student from New York City. He received both his BA and MA in Spanish language and literature from CUNY Hunter College. His master’s thesis discussed expressions of identity and neoplatonic notions of love in Feliciano de Silva’s romance of chivalry Amadís de Grecia. His current interests include 16 th century Spanish chivalric romances, early modern conceptions of identity, self-fashioning, and visions of the Conquest of the Americas. Tess Renker is a PhD student in the department of Hispanic Studies, originally from New Hampshire. Tess completed a BA in Spanish with a minor in Latin American Studies at the University of New Hampshire in 2014, and went on to complete an MA in Spanish at the same institution. After completing her MA, Tess spent a year in Quito, Ecuador on a Princeton in Latin America Fellowship. Her current research centers on themes of memory, trauma, performance, and the construction of racial and cultural identities in contemporary Peruvian film, literature, and cultural production. Irene Rihuete Varea is a PhD student from Spain. She completed her BA in Film and Media Studies in Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, with a minor in Political Science. She then received an MA in Film Studies from King's College London. Her interests include Latin American and Spanish cinemas, postcolonial studies, public memory and affect. María Victoria Taborelli is a PhD student from Buenos Aires, Argentina. She holds a BA in Letras and a BA in Literary Teaching from Universidad de Buenos Aires. Her current interests include intertextualities present in Post-dictatorship Latin American narratives and performing arts, women's writing, memory of collective traumas, literary theory and literary education. Carmen Urbita Ibarreta is a PhD student from Spain. She holds a BA in Comparative Literature from King's College London and completed her MSt in Modern Languages (Spanish & French) at Oxford University. Among her research interests are early modern peninsular and colonial culture, early modern women's writing, reading and writing practices and the body. Luz Velasco Oropeza is a PhD student from Mexico City. She holds a B.A. from the Universidad Iberoamericana in Latin American Literature. She is interested in 20th and 21st century Latin American poetry; particularly in exile poetry written by Latin American female writers living in the United States. She is also interested in performance art, intermediality, literary theory, the concept of body, and the questioning of artistic and political borders. Home Contact us Faculty Graduate Students Current Events News & Announcements Current Courses Course Placement La Pluma Writing Center Language Evaluations Undergraduate Graduate Program Transatlantic Project Print this Page Share this Page Hispanic Studies Brown University Box 1961 84 Prospect Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3517 Fax 401-863-1669 [email protected] Calendar There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Other Resources Brown in Spain Library Resources