Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Climate School Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home The School Education Research News Events People Giving Shop Leadership Careers COVID-19 Resources Privacy Policy Explore All Programs MA Climate + Society Non-Degree Programs Educator Training Pre-College Programs Professional Learning Undergraduate Research Experiences Office of Research Pre-Award Unit Research Partners Research Projects Columbia Climate School You are here: Home Education Non-Degree Programs Educator Training Educator Training "I'm so grateful that for this professional development opportunity! A very engaging event with great presenters and so many resources and ideas for case studies. I am teaching Environmental Science 12. I'm feeling less overwhelmed with developing the climate change theme of this course now that I’ve done this training!" – Jennifer, High School Science Educator Teach, the Columbia Climate School’s professional development program, is designed to provide K-12 educators with cutting-edge tools and content to address climate change, the environment, and sustainability in their classrooms through our world-renowned scientists. With this series, we hope to engage students through science learning and teaching that goes beyond textbooks and worksheets. All K-12 educators (both pre- and in-service), administrators, and district leaders working in formal and informal learning environments, regardless of subject area expertise, are encouraged to attend Teach events. There are no prerequisites for these events. For the 2020-2021 academic year, all events will be offered virtually. Participants will need access to a computer in order to join our live-streamed events. For our Teach events, participants will receive: Access to our live events as well as sessions recordings and presentation slides from speakers A certificate of participation from the Columbia Climate School Resources, additional reading materials, and curricular materials* *These items will only be available for summer Teach events Highlights from Past Educator Training Sessions July 2020 – Climate Change in the Classroom December 2020 – The Science of COVID-19 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close