Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About About the UW Diversity Global Impact Innovation Leadership Maps Population Health Sustainability Visit Academics Academic calendar Academic departments Colleges and schools Course descriptions Registration Student guide Time schedule Apply Admissions Financial Aid Continuing education Majors Student housing Transfer students Tuition and fees Undocumented students UW Online News & Events UW News Featured stories Arts UW Calendar UW Magazine Husky sports Newsletter Research Office of Research Research Lifecycle Resources Collaboration Stats and rankings Campuses Bothell Seattle Tacoma Give Give now Ways to give My UW Giving Visiting the Visitor Center Visit the UW Menu About About the UW Diversity Global Impact Innovation Leadership Maps Population Health Sustainability Visit Academics Academic calendar Academic departments Colleges and schools Course descriptions Registration Student guide Time schedule Apply Admissions Financial Aid Continuing education Majors Student housing Transfer students Tuition and fees Undocumented students UW Online News & Events UW News Featured stories Arts UW Calendar UW Magazine Husky sports Newsletter Research Office of Research Research Lifecycle Resources Collaboration Stats and rankings Campuses Bothell Seattle Tacoma Give Give now Ways to give My UW Giving Home Visit the UW Visiting the Visitor Center What to expect during your visit at the Visitor Center A UW student will be at the front desk to help you with any questions when you visit during in-person office hours. Please note that many offices and buildings on campus are still closed and/or operating remotely. If there is a specific office/department that you would like to connect with, we are happy to provide you with their contact information! Campus Tours If you are you looking to register for an in-person campus tour, you can sign up here! For any questions about in-person campus tours, please contact our Office of Admissions, either through livechat, phone, or email (visituw@uw.edu). Office policies As part of our COVID-19 Prevention Plan, we have implemented additional office policies to ensure the safety of our visitors, students, staff, and faculty. Anyone not following these COVID-19 prevention policies, may be asked to leave the Visitor Center office. Feeling sick? Stay home! If you are sick or experiencing mild symptoms of illness (even if you are fully vaccinated), you are not permitted in the Visitor Center office. We will be happy to assist you with your question(s) through phone (206-543-9198) or email (uwvic@uw.edu). Face coverings Face coverings are recommended indoors regardless of vaccination status with the exception of settings where face coverings are required (e.g., UW Shuttles, heathcare, and patient care activities). While not required in most indoor settings, face coverings remain an important intervention against respiratory illnesses of all kinds and offer an additional layer of protection. Some people may choose to wear a mask out of consideration for people who may be at high risk in public settings, or if they want to further reduce their own risk for any reason. Please remember that individuals may need to or choose to wear — or not wear — masks for a wide range of reasons. Thank you for respecting those needs and choices. Please refer to the UW Face Covering Policy for additional details and FAQ. Physical distancing and room capacity Based on state guidance, UW has lifted both indoor and outdoor distancing and COVID-19 capacity requirements, though distancing is still recommended for unvaccinated individuals. Cleaning and disinfecting Our custodial team cleans the office weekly. Additional cleaning throughout the day is in place with an emphasis on highly touched surfaces. Hand sanitizer and cleaning station A hand sanitizer dispenser is available at the entrance of the Visitor Center office. A cleaning station with additional supplies and PPE is also available for visitors to use prior to entering the office. Food and drink Food and drink can only be consumed outside of the Visitor Center office. Access to the office The Visitor Center office is located on the ground floor of Odegaard Undergraduate Library. You can only enter the ground floor through the west entrance and the south entrance. The entrances are only open during business hours. Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-4 p.m. Learn more about getting to campus here! Parking Paid parking is available through the University of Washington with an option for touchless payment by phone. Learn more about parking here. Return to Visitor Center Campus map Office Hours Monday-Friday 9 a.m.-4p.m. Saturdays & Sundays CLOSED Holidays Closed on UW Holidays Contact us Email: uwvic@uw.edu Phone: 206-543-9198 Address: Odegaard Undergraduate Library, Room 022. 4060 George Washington Lane NE, Seattle, WA. 98195 University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA