Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Faculty & Research Faculty Research Featured Topics Academic Units …→ Harvard Business School→ Faculty & Research→ Faculty Faculty Positions Ahmmad Allan Brown Doctoral Student Doctoral Student Read more Ahmmad Brown is a doctoral student in the Organizational Behavior program jointly offered by Harvard Business School and the Department of Sociology at Harvard University. His research explores the structures and processes that organizations create to improve diversity and inclusion outcomes. Ahmmad holds an M.B.A. and M.A in Education from Stanford University, and a B.A. in Sociology & Anthropology and Japanese from Swarthmore College. Prior to his doctoral studies, Ahmmad worked as a consultant at The Bridgespan Group, where he was the primary author of an internal resource to integrate racial equity into the firm’s strategy work. He has also worked in college admission, and served in advisory capacities for postsecondary institutions on student recruitment, engagement, and success initiatives. Less +1 →Send Email Contact Information Send Email Ahmmad Brown is a doctoral student in the Organizational Behavior program jointly offered by Harvard Business School and the Department of Sociology at Harvard University. His research explores the structures and processes that organizations create to improve diversity and inclusion outcomes. Ahmmad holds an M.B.A. and M.A in Education from Stanford University, and a B.A. in Sociology & Anthropology and Japanese from Swarthmore College. Prior to his doctoral studies, Ahmmad worked as a consultant at The Bridgespan Group, where he was the primary author of an internal resource to integrate racial equity into the firm’s strategy work. He has also worked in college admission, and served in advisory capacities for postsecondary institutions on student recruitment, engagement, and success initiatives. Area of Study Organizational Behavior Sociology Areas of Interest diversity economic sociology education nonprofit ǁ Harvard Business School Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College