Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Student Life Menu About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Home Student Life Health Health College is full of excitement, opportunities and also challenges. You’re living in a new place, with new people and new responsibilities. The University of Washington has many services to help you stay healthy – emotionally, mentally and physically – so you can make the most of your time at the UW. A great place to get started is Husky Health & Well-Being, the one-stop health and wellness website that connects UW Seattle students to a range of services and information. We’ve also highlighted some helpful resources below. Get support for tough issues Struggling to find the right campus resource? Get answers from caring professionals about issues from relationship violence, to alcohol and other drugs and emotional health, or explore the trainings and education we offer in living communities and on campus. CHECK OUT LIVEWELL HEALTH & WELLNESS Find support for unexpected financial hardship Life can be unpredictable. From family emergencies to natural disasters, unexpected costs can cause stress and impact your academic success and personal well being. All three UW campuses now offer Emergency Aid to currently enrolled students. EXPLORE EMERGENCY AID OPTIONS Feel better Got a cold? Twisted your ankle? Just not feeling right? Physicians and nurse practitioners at Hall Health can help you get back on the road to healthy. visit HALL HEALTH Video: Mental Health at UW See members of the UW community speaking to the importance of paying attention to your mental health and seeking help when you need it. When you’re a Husky, you’re not alone. Watch video on Mental Health at UW Talk with a counselor At the Counseling Center, you can talk with a psychologist or mental health counselor or get crisis help right away. And there’s no charge for most of our services. Contact the Counseling Center Explore mental health support services UW offers many mental health services, including counseling, crisis intervention, medication evaluation, group therapy and support groups, mindfulness meditation and more. Explore services Get emergency medical help If you’re feeling ill or have an injury on an evening or weekend, contact the after-hours, no-cost consulting nurse service available to students at 206-744-2500. If you are in a life-threatening situation, call 911 or go to the nearest emergency room. explore uw medicine Emergency care Need to talk with someone right away? If you’re experiencing an emotional crisis, King County Crisis Connections is there to help, offering telephone-based 24-hour crisis care, including suicide intervention. Contact King County Crisis connections Exercise and have fun From rock climbing to cardio, basketball to kayaking, swimming to golf, and intramural sports to mindfulness, UW Recreation has options for everyone. Explore recreation Connect with us Email us or call 206-543-4972 Blog Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 4) – Husky Pawket Guide 2 weeks ago Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 3) – Husky Pawket Guide 4 weeks ago Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 2) – Husky Pawket Guide 1 month ago University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA