Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Business at Tech Corporate Engagement Home » Why Scheller? » Business at Tech » Corporate Engagement Menu Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Tech Savvy. Business smart. In today's fast-paced business environment, staying ahead by leveraging leading-edge business and technology innovations is vital. At Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, we focus at the intersection of business and technology. We offer engagement options that provide access to our extraordinary faculty and students, and to exceptional learning opportunities that advance your company's goals. From corporate programs that focus on supply chain, emerging technologies, innovation management, and business analytics to customizable student projects and internships, collaborating with Scheller College can be your company's best investment. Top Talent at Your Fingertips Tap into a wealth of talent through access to our undergraduates, MBAs, and alumni. Enhance your workforce with graduates who specialize at the intersection of business and technology, with proven expertise in solving today's toughest problems. Build relationships and enhance your company's visibility on the campus of the world's most innovative technological university. Recruit Undergraduates Recruit MBAs Drive Innovation Through Talent Development Prepare your workforce for the challenges ahead with our corporate programs created with your company's strategy and goals in mind. We offer custom developed and open enrollment programs that focus on supply chain management, Lean Six Sigma, innovation management, financial acumen, business analytics, and technology management. The programs are led by world-renowned Georgia Tech faculty and incorporate the latest trends, research, and emerging technologies. Executive Education Programs Our Evening MBA and Executive MBA programs are designed for working professionals so that they can complete the degree requirements without interrupting their careers. Evening MBA Program Executive MBA Program Thought Leadership and Expertise Benefit from Scheller College's innovative speaker series that features an astonishing lineup of notable business executives, high-tech entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, and academic thought-leaders. Partner with our faculty on leading-edge research in emerging areas at the intersection of business and technology. Work with our students on semester-long projects that span supply chain, marketing, business analytics, information technology, innovation management, and sustainability. Scheller Events Impact Speaker Series Digital Disruption Speaker Series Scheller Research Centers Practicum Courses Business Analytics Practicum This course pairs groups of students with a company for a semester-long project. Student teams works with their participating company by framing a business issue as an analytics problem, analyzing data provided by the company, and generating applicable business insights and/or developing capabilities. Information Technology Practicum This course pairs teams of Georgia Tech MBA students with participating organizations for a 3-month project. Each student team will conduct an in-depth analysis and develop a detailed answer to a “strategic question" provided by a participating organization. The question should lie at the intersection of business and technology. The students benefit from the opportunity to apply the analytical and technology skills they acquire in the program to a real-world situation. The participating organizations benefit from in-depth analyses by highly motivated MBA students of the issues related to a strategic question. Participating organizations have included AT&T, The Coca-Cola Company, IBM, InterContinental Hotel Group, SecureWorks, and Southern Company. International Practicum This semester-long class project is designed to give students on-the-ground international consulting experience, and a greater ability to define, analyze, and solve international business problems. Students work as part of a consulting team for a client based in the U.S. or where the residency will take place. The teams explore market opportunities abroad or research entering the U.S. market for the client. Previous clients have included companies such as Genius Consulting, HP, IBM, Monarch Beverages, and UPS. Previous teams have traveled to Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Denmark, Ireland, Japan, Turkey, and Singapore. Lean Six Sigma Practicum Learn the tools and techniques of Lean Six Sigma employed by leading companies to improve processes and performance. You'll apply its methodology and statistical analysis to a company project. Participating companies have included AT&T, AutoTrader, State Farm, and The Coca-Cola Company. Certification at the Green Belt level, valued in the industry at more than $5,000, is offered as part of this elective course. Marketing Practicum Gain experience in solving marketing problems faced by organizations. Understand marketing and business problems faced by organizations and develop the relevant skills for critically analyzing these problems and providing a tractable solution. New Venture Practicum This course consists of both lectures and a hands-on project. Lectures include the Lean Startup methodology, as well as guest lecturers representing young entrepreneurs, experienced entrepreneurs, angel investors, venture capitalists, technology venture lawyers, and more. Moving in parallel with the lectures, students develop the core of a business model for a real startup idea. This is done by working with a startup at ATDC, working with GTRI or GTRC on commercialization opportunities for existing intellectual property, or students may develop their own startup idea from scratch. Pro Bono Consulting Practicum Georgia Tech's Pro Bono Consulting class helps non-profit organizations based in Atlanta resolve key strategic challenges. Since its inception, participants have worked with such clients as the American Cancer Society, Art of Living, MedShare International, and The Sullivan Center. As a participant, you'll have an opportunity to apply classroom theory and gain consulting experience. Quantitative and Computational Finance Practicum The course will consist of case studies, visiting lecturers from financial institutions, and student group projects of an advanced nature — all centered around quantitative and computational finance. The group projects deal with applicable problems in areas such as asset management, credit risk, and pricing of derivatives. The course involves significant data analysis using big data sets. The groups will be required to formulate and analyze the project problem, and implement and present their solutions to the problems. Real Estate Practicum Designed to give MBAs experience working on real-life real estate solutions for Fortune 50 companies, students are actively involved in a Corporate Real Estate Innovation Council. They function as the research arm of the Council and explore the workplace of the future: how the built environment impacts productivity, asset monetization, and the impact emerging technologies will have on the built environment. Participation in this practicum has led to internship opportunities with service providers and corporate real estate departments of major global companies. Strategy and Innovation Consulting Practicum The Strategy and Innovation Consulting Practicum integrates actual strategy and innovation issues currently confronting major corporations with an experiential course combining: (1) the application of theory to practice, (2) coursework emulating the work performed by early-career strategy consultants, (3) frameworks for identification and resolution of strategy and innovation problems, (4) the process and practice of strategy analysis and strategy design, (5) development of practical strategy implementation plans, (6) skills development (in planning, communicating, conducting research, and decision making), and (7) interactions with strategy and innovation consultants and industry executives. Supply Chain Innovation Practicum Innovate around supply chain problems in a real world setting. Apply what you learned in supply chain courses to a real project. Your student group will be paired with a company for a semester-long project. Work with the host company to analyze a current supply chain issue and provide innovative solutions. Sustainable Business Consulting Practicum Students gain knowledge in three important areas: management consulting, topical sustainability issues, and project management. This course takes students through a crash course in management consulting skills while teams are formed and assigned to sustainability-relevant, business-focused projects for participating companies. Teams scope, plan, execute, and deliver a 12-week consulting project by actively managing the engagement via ongoing interactions with their client liaison. Corporate Inquiries Pat Paterson Program & Operations Manager Profile, 404-385-5339 Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures