Toggle navigation Information for: Research Associates Students & Alumni Visitors Search Population Studies Center Home Home About Us PSC Within Penn Contact Us Photo Gallery People People Research Associates Research Affiliates Visitors & Post-Doctoral Fellows GGD Faculty Spotlight Students Alumni Staff Students On the Job Market Research Research Themes New Dynamics of Population Diversity Human Resources and Endowments Demography Innovation in Methods International Population Research Other Research Research Projects Pilot Awards Etienne van de Walle Prize Penn @ PAA Selected Posters IRB & Human Subjects Working Papers Newsletters Services Administrative Services Business & Financial Services Grants & Collaborative Research Support Database Management Post-doctoral & Visitor Appointments Library & Information Services Demography Library Catalog Information Services Newsletter Reference & Research Services Training & Instruction Dissemination Services Demography Library Other Computing Services Conference Room & Collaboration Space Resource Links News & Events News & Events Calendar Colloquium PSC Events Other Events News Funding Calls for Papers Employment Confs & Wrkshps NIH Funding+ Colloquium Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. Programs Demography Ph.D. Sociology Ph.D. Allied Centers Allied Centers Centers at Penn NICHD Centers NIA Centers Association of Population Centers PSC Research Themes The research of the PSC is ever-evolving. The scale of research ranges from macro to micro and reaches across many disciplines including economics, demography, and sociology. PSC scientists seek to understand the dynamics of human populations. More Research Themes » Research Theme: New Dynamics of Population Diversity Building on PSC’s strengths in demography and the social study of race and ethnicity, plus Penn’s targeted institutional investment, to advance work on a central issue of the 21st Century: the relationship between health and inequality this research theme covers: population composition, migration, race and ethnic identity, and health and inequality. More » Global Age Patterns of Under-Five Mortality (GAPU5M) project Led by Michel Guillot, the GAPU5M project aims to improve our understanding of age patterns of under-5 mortality by providing detailed data for 25 countries from 1841 until 2016. Read the project's latest research papers. Download the Under-5 Mortality Database (U5MD) GAPU5M Project Website » Research Theme: Demography PSC is anchored by a long, distinguished tradition and topics are a major source of intellectual identification across fields within the PSC, as researchers who are not trained in formal demography, but who are studying fertility, marriage, family etc. are attracted to population research. Research areas include: Fertility, Family planning, and Reproductive Health and Mortality. More » Research Theme: Human Resources and Endowments Addresses differences in health and social outcomes between and within populations that are functions of individual differences in the characteristics with which individuals are endowed, from genes and their phenotypic expression through family background characteristics. More » International Population Research PSC has a strong scientific and professional presence in international population research and is engageed to address leading challenges at the intersection of global demographic change and global health. More » New Directions in Population Research Two research areas connected to existing strengths, with sufficient critical mass (projects and interest) to merit special PSC support are: Population and the Environment & “Big Data” and Population Science. More » PARC Receives NIA Renewal Funding » Population Studies Center: In the News NEW POPULATION CENTER WORKING PAPER (PSC/PARC) New Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC): Gonalons-Pons, Pilar 2022. "Paid Family Leave and the Gender Division of Paid and Unpaid Work." University of Pennsylvania Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC), 2022-73. --May 25, 2022 Read more » NEW POPULATION CENTER WORKING PAPER (PSC/PARC) New Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC): Amin, Vikesh, Jere Behrman, Jason Fletcher, Carlos Flores, Alfonso Flores-Lagunes, and Hans-Peter Kohler. 2022. "Does Schooling Improve Cognitive Abilities at Older Ages: Causal Evidence from Nonparametric Bounds." University of Pennsylvania Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC), 2022-92. --May 20, 2022 Read more » NEW POPULATION CENTER WORKING PAPER (PSC/PARC) New Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC): Grant, Monica and Hans-Peter Kohler. 2022. "Marriage Change and Fertility Decline in sub-Saharan Africa, 1991-2019." University of Pennsylvania Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC), 2022-91. --May 16, 2022 Read more » More news » Want to learn about our PhD programs? Demography PhD Sociology PhD Publications PSC/PARC Research Associates are highly productive and very active in their respective fields. Database The Publications Database includes articles, books, chapters, reports, and published working papers. Working Papers The Population Center Working Papers series contains papers by researchers at the PSC/PARC. Selected Posters A selection of posters presented at the Population Association of America. Penn @ PAA Every year researchers at the PSC present at the Annual Meeting of the Population Association of America. Spotlight Gilvan Guedes – Visiting Scholar Gilvan is a professor of Demography at Center for Regional Development and Planning (CEDEPLAR), a research center at the Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais in Brazil. Read More » @PennPSC on Twitter More » Working Papers Does Schooling Improve Cognitive Abilities at Older Ages: Causal Evidence from Nonparametric Bounds Marriage Change and Fertility Decline in sub-Saharan Africa, 1991-2019 PSC/PARC Papers » Publications » Conferences 2022 Add Health Users Conference July 11, 2022 - July 14, 2022 Chapel Hill, North Carolina The 2nd European Conference on Aging & Gerontology (EGen2022) July 14, 2022 - July 17, 2022 London, United Kingdom Conferences & Workshops » Calls for … There are no items at this time. NIH News Notice of Intent to Publish a Funding Opportunity Announcement for Cancer Prevention-Interception Targeted Agent Discovery Program (CAP-IT) Data and Resource Coordination Center (DRCC) (U24 Clinical Trial Not Allowed) Notice of Intent to Publish a Funding Opportunity Announcement for Cancer Prevention-Interception Targeted Agent Discovery Program (CAP-IT) Centers (U54 Clinical Trial Not Allowed) More » Quartet Pilot Project Competition Request for Proposals: 2021-2022 Quartet Pilot Research Project Competition Proposals are due on Monday, March 22, 2021 The Annual Quartet award competition is jointly sponsored by the PSC, the Population Aging Research Center, Boettner Center for Pension Retirement Research, and LDI Center for Health Incentives and Behavioral Economics. The competition promotes high quality and innovative research in demography, economics, and related social and behavioral sciences. Quartet awards are funded for one year (or less) in duration and are selected through competitive peer review. Click here to download the application materials and to read the RFP Guidelines. Click here to read about former and currently funded projects. More About Us The Population Studies Center (PSC) at the University of Pennsylvania (Penn) has fostered research and training in population since 1962, with support from the NICHD P30 program from 1978-2003 and the P2C Population Dynamics Research Infrastructure Program from 2018 to present (formerly the R24 funding mechanism from 2003-2018). Our goal is to remain a national and world leader in research on the growth and structure of human populations and on the role of socioeconomic stratification and human and social diversity on the health of populations. The PSC is characterized by strong continuity in the production of high-quality research on demography, population-based studies of health and human development, and behavioral and social science approaches to sexually transmitted diseases and reproductive health. READ MORE Quick Links IRB & Human Subjects NIH Public Access Policy PSC Library Catalog Sociology Department Economics Department DONATE TO THE PSC Request Services Reserve the PSC Conference Room and/or Collaboration Space Submit a Working Paper/Brief Submit News & Events About Us The Population Studies Center (PSC) at the University of Pennsylvania (Penn) has fostered research and training in population since 1962, with support from the NICHD P30 program from 1978-2003 and the P2C Population Dynamics Research Infrastructure Program from 2018 to present (formerly the R24 funding mechanism from 2003-2018). Our goal is to remain a national and world leader in research on the growth and structure of human populations and on the role of socioeconomic stratification and human and social diversity on the health of populations. The PSC is characterized by strong continuity in the production of high-quality research on demography, population-based studies of health and human development, and behavioral and social science approaches to sexually transmitted diseases and reproductive health. READ MORE Contact Tel: 215-898-6441 Fax: 215-898-2124 239 McNeil Building 3718 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104-6298 [Map & Directions] Contact Us twitter.com/pennpsc facebook.com/pennpsc PSC Directory Penn A-Z - Penn Calendar © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Population Studies Center