Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now Topics LGBT Health LGBT Health Sexuality and sexual identity have emerged as fundamental areas of inquiry, leading to improvements in the health of lesbian, gay, and transgender populations in the US and around the world. Featured Video <a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/PiWKVe20Hc8?rel=0&amp;wmode=opaque&amp;autohide=1">Embedded video</a> Faculty in LGBT Health Alwyn Cohall Professor Sociomedical Sciences, Population and Family Health, and Pediatrics at the Columbia University Medical Center David Bell Professor Population and Family Health and Pediatrics at the Columbia University Medical Center John Santelli Professor Population and Family Health and Pediatrics Jennifer Hirsch Professor Sociomedical Sciences Katherine Keyes Professor Epidemiology Mary Ann Chiasson Professor of Clinical Epidemiology (in Medicine) Melanie Gold Professor Population and Family Health and Pediatrics at the Columbia University Medical Center Richard Parker Professor Emeritus Sociomedical Sciences and Anthropology, Special Research Scientist and Special Lecturer in Sociomedical Sciences Morgan Philbin Assistant Professor Sociomedical Sciences Latanya Mapp Frett Adjunct Assistant Professor Population and Family Health Etienne Meunier Associate Research Scientist Sociomedical Sciences Dustin Duncan Associate Professor Epidemiology News & Features Stopping the Puberty Apocalypse Imagine for a moment, the unthinkable: a supersized asteroid is on a collision course with Earth, and NASA has no idea how to stop it. Nukes, gravitational slingshots, Bruce Willis? All of them might work, but they only have one shot—if only they had more time to figure out a solution. [[ Structural Sexism and Anti-LGB Stigma Linked to Poor Birth Outcomes in the U.S. New research links structural sexism, restrictive family planning policies, and structural discrimination against lesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGB) populations with increased risk of preterm birth and decreased birth weight—regardless of the sexual orientation of the person giving birth. Morg From Paper to Policy Research is a powerful thing. As one of society’s main engines for generating knowledge, it forms the bedrock for decision-making. But particularly in public health, the biggest impact happens where the rubber meets the road—when a study or a body of work moves beyond the walls of academia t See All Just Published Martos, A.J., Wilson, P.A., & Meyer, I.H., (2017). Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Health Services in the United States: Origins, Evolution, and Contemporary Landscape. PLoS ONE. View abstract. Siegel, K., Lekas, H.M., Onaga, M., Verni, R., & Gunn, H. (2017). The Strategies of Heterosexuals from Large Metropolitan Areas for Assessing the Risks of Exposure to HIV or Other Sexually Transmitted Infections from Partners Met Online. AIDS Patient Care STDS. View abstract. Hatzenbuehler, M. (2017). The Influence of State Laws on the Mental Health of Sexual Minority Youth. JAMA Pediatrics. View abstract. Hatzenbuehler, M., & Pachankis, J. (2016). Stigma and Minority Stress as Social Determinants of Health Among Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Youth. Pediatric Clinics Of North America. View abstract. Related Centers & Programs The Center for the History and Ethics of Public Health We rely on historical methods and ethical analysis to investigate critical public health issues. Center for the Psychosocial Study of Health and Illness A multidisciplinary research group within the Department of Sociomedical Sciences. Center for the Study of Culture, Politics, and Health The Center plays a leading role in thinking through the development of public health solutions. ICAP at Columbia ICAP has worked since 2004 with one central goal: to improve the health of families and communities. Upcoming Events Wednesday 1 June episummer@columbia Friday 3 June Release Webinar for the National Academy of Medicine's Global Roadmap for Health Longevity Friday 3 June COVID-19: From Causes to Consequences Hosted by The Columbia Connection Monday 6 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Tuesday 7 June New Resources and Creative Strategies for Recruiting Candidates for Health Departments Tuesday 7 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Thursday 9 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Friday 10 June Creating a Synthetic Life Course Cohort for Research on Alzheimer's Disease Neuroepidemiology Seminar Friday 10 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers