Skip to content Undergraduate Research Division of Student Learning and Academic Success Main Menu Prospective ResearchersMenu Toggle What is Research? Why do Research? How to Get Started Research Learning Communities New to UCF? Introduction to Research Courses Research Positions Database Current ResearchersMenu Toggle Overview & Current Opportunities Funding OpportunitiesMenu Toggle Student Research Grants Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship Federal Work Study Award Programs Publication and Presentation Opportunities Programs with Course Credit Summer Off Campus Research Leadership Opportunities Safety Faculty ResearchersMenu Toggle Research-Intensive Course Designation Directed Independent Research (4912) Recognition for Mentoring Effective Mentoring Practices Find Students Fund Students Professional Development AboutMenu Toggle Request a Presentation Workshops and Deadlines Mission and Vision Meet the Team Contact Us Councils ListServ Sign-Up Office of Undergraduate Research Policies Student Quick Links: Get Started Workshops Meet a Peer Mentor Fund your Research Distinguished Undergraduate Researcher Award Congratulations to May Distinguished Undergraduate Researcher, Sydney Morton! Sydney’s project is the first study to document a disease called Ranavirus in sea turtles. Sea turtles are known to harbor a variety of diseases such as the well-studied infectious tumor disease Fibropapillomatosis (FP) which has other viral associations. Sydney aimed to investigate whether Ranavirus is present in green sea turtles with and without FP. Using juvenile green sea turtle samples taken from the Indian River Lagoon by the UCF Marine Turtle Research Group, she quantified the prevalence and intensity of Ranavirus using qPCR in skin, tumor and blood. Sydney suggests taking advantage of OUR and all of the opportunities that they can provide for you! “OUR is such a great and supportive resource in beginning your undergraduate research journey.” Upcoming Events and Workshops Jun 1 12:00 am Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy Participants in the Summer Research Academy will: Learn about the nature of university research and how it can expand your undergraduate experience. Meet with research faculty and other students active in research. Explore research opportunities available to undergraduate students at UCF. Prepare professionally for… Jun 1 12:00 am Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy Summer Research Academy (SRA) is a fast-paced, 3-day event in July. It is a 1-credit course (IDS 3913) that runs during Summer B term, but most of the work will be completed during the event in July. SRA is ideal for… Jun 24 12:00 am Application Deadline: Student Research Grant Applications for Summer funds due Mar. 25. Applications for Fall funds due Jun. 24. Application and submission details can be found here: https://academicsuccess.ucf.edu/our/research-grants/ View Entire Calender Summer Research Academy Get Started in Undergraduate Research! Summer Research Academy (SRA) is a fast-paced, 3-day event in July; ideal for students who want to begin research in the Fall! SRA Students will: Learn about the nature of university research and how it can expand your undergraduate experience. Meet with research faculty and other students active in research. Explore research opportunities available to undergraduate students at UCF. Prepare professionally for future research, internships/careers, and advanced degrees. Earn 1-credit hour for completing the Introduction to Research (IDS 3913) course. Applications close JUNE 1! Apply now! Learn More & Apply Here! Stay in the know Learn more about OUR programs, deadlines, and highlights. NEWSLETTER SIGN-UP Facebook Twitter Instagram Undergraduate Research Division of Student Learning and Academic Success our@ucf.edu 407-882-2300 Trevor Colbourn Hall, Suite 205 Excellence, Innovation, and Distinction ✦ Copyright © 2022 Division of Student Learning and Academic Success | College of Undergraduate Studies The University of Central Florida is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award degrees at the associate, baccalaureate, master’s, specialist, and doctoral levels. Questions about the accreditation of UCF may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097, by calling (404) 679-4500, or by using information available on SACSCOC’s website (www.sacscoc.org).