Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Human Resource Management MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Human Resource Management MS Apply Events Request More Info Human Resource Management MS Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Human Resource Management Set yourself apart and advance your career with the Master of Science in Human Resource Management in Temple University’s Fox School of Business. Gain global perspective and develop business acumen with this human resource (HR) management program offered within a business school. Whether you aspire to launch or accelerate your career in HR management, this master’s degree program will help you to build the technical expertise and interpersonal skills to improve organizational performance. The Master of Science in Human Resource Management program delivers theoretical perspectives and practical knowledge in traditional areas of the human resource field such as talent acquisition, talent management, employee relations and total rewards. The Fox MS in Human Resource Management program is offered completely online on both a part-time and full-time basis to accommodate our students’ busy schedules. Earn your degree in just 13 months or take courses at your own pace with our flexible timeline that includes multiple program entry points. Classes are delivered through the same virtual learning technology that supports our Online MBA and provide ample opportunity for faculty interaction and peer collaboration. Access the vast resource and support system including virtual career services within the Fox School of Business. Connect to the Fox faculty’s expansive network of regional and global leaders, and foster the professional and personal relationships necessary to advance your career in HR. The Masters of Science curriculum is certified to the standards established by the Society for Human Resource Management. Request Information Learn more about the Human Resource Management MS program. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Learn More Explore all of the specialized master's programs at Fox. Request Information Apply Learn More Madalina Jones HR Generalist, Laporte Consultants "The program definitely gave me the confidence to engage more in my current role and grow and expand as an HR professional. It gave me a lot of credibility internally and externally. It was really the stepping stone I needed to launch my career." Classes & Curriculum Developed by a team of accomplished industry experts and world-class academic leaders, the courses in the 30-credit Human Resource Management MS equip rising professionals with knowledge of advanced practices in critical HRM areas, an understanding of how those practices affect organizational success, and the ability to influence that success. Coursework includes the following. Building Human Capital in High-Performance Organizations Business Transformation through Big Data Leading High-Performing Teams Leadership in Organizations Strategic Reward Systems Talent Acquisition Learn more about the Human Resource Management MS courses. Related Graduate Certificates Human Resource Management Faculty Highlights Faculty See Human Resource Management MS faculty highlights. Faculty Highlights A link to Human Resource Management MS faculty profiles. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,142.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,142.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For more information about the Human Resource Management MS degree program, contact the following faculty member. Miljenka Sakic is the assistant director of graduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-3581 Email: msakic@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Fox graduate students can participate in Global Immersions. They are destination-focused learning experiences that allow graduate students to engage with a different country's culture, language and business practices. Global Immersions expose students to comparative business environments, global business in emerging markets, global companies working to solve crucial problems, intensive and diverse learning experiences, and international innovation and entrepreneurship. Previous destinations include China, India, Latin America and South Africa. Recent participating companies include Black and Decker, BMW, Deloitte, Microsoft and SanDisk. Learn more about Global Immersion Programs. Temple also offers interested students a variety of options for pursuing internship, teaching and volunteer opportunities abroad through the Center for International Business and Research. Learn more about your options for studying or working abroad. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-HRM-MS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Human Resource Management MS Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info