Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs German Studies Ph.D. school Graduate School department German Studies Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The Department of German Studies offers a Ph.D. program that both provides a coherent perspective on major developments in German literature, culture and critical thought in the modern period (1650 to the present) and affords students the opportunity to develop their own specialized interests in German Studies. The program requires a secondary field of study consisting of a coherent sequence of four courses outside the Department. With guidance from the Director of Graduate Studies, each student plans this sequence in a specialized interest. Some examples of possible specialized programs of study are Media Studies, History, Jewish Studies, Visual Arts, Philosophy, Music or Theater. Drawing on the expertise of eminent scholars in these fields at Brown, the program thus fosters an interdisciplinary approach to the field of German Studies. The guiding principle of our curriculum is a conscious exploration of those topics and moments in the history of German literature, culture, and thought which define its uniqueness, exemplify broader issues in the humanities, or have resonated most strongly in other cultures. A field which unifies these moments — aesthetics and aesthetic theory from Kant to Adorno — is currently one of our strengths. The program is designed to prepare students for a diverse and ever-changing workplace, within academia and outside. To become first-rate scholars and researchers, students are trained to develop their writing skills and to deliver publishable work. To become mature and innovative teachers, they are exposed to a rigorous program of theoretical and practical approaches to teaching. To enable them to become high–performing professionals, students will learn to conduct innovative research, to process information effectively and efficiently, and to communicate highly complex subjects to a variety of audiences. Admission Information Inquire Apply Applicants are expected to have a strong background in German literature and thought. Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Writing Sample: Required (in English or German – twenty pages maximum). Additional Requirements: Fluency in German required. Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline January 7, 2022 Completion Requirements Thirteen courses, including four courses in a secondary field of study; reading knowledge of two additional foreign languages; teaching; qualifying exam; dissertation and defense. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Zachary Sng zachary_sng@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Kristina Mendicino kristina_mendicino@Brown.edu Contact and Location Department of German Studies Mailing Address Brown University Box 1979 German_Studies@brown.edu 401-863-2596 Visit the Department of German Studies Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search German Studies Open details for German Studies Bookmark this Page