Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Graduate Program in Medical Physics Home About Us Curriculum Resources and Faculty Admission FAQ Contact Us Site Navigation Home About Us Curriculum Courses Research and Thesis Resources and Faculty People Admission FAQ Contact Us FAQ Master of Science in Medical Physics Graduate Program FAQ Q: Who are medical physicists? How do I become a medical physicist? A: Medical physicists are responsible for the implementation of technology for purposes of imaging and treating patients. This includes working with many imaging devices and treatment equipment and ensuring the overall safety of patients and colleagues. Following undergraduate studies in a hard science, students enroll in a medical physics graduate program or PhD program. Following graduation, the educated medical physicist must complete a two-year residency program. Q: What can I do with a degree in Medical Physics? A: Upon completion of a residency program in either imaging or radiation therapy, the trained medical physicist will enter the workforce as a practicing medical physicist. Additionally, one may go into education or industry. Q: What are the costs of the program? Is financial aid available? A: For details regarding tuition and fees please see Graduate School Financing & Support. Q: Do you offer a PhD program in Medical Physics? A: We will have a program starting in 2024. Q: What academic background do I need? A: Minimally, a bachelor’s degree in a hard science that includes at least a minor in physics. Q: What can I do to strengthen my application? A: Make sure references are well chosen and will follow through, and present a personal statement that is honest and sincere. Q: Is there a minimum GPA requirement for admission? A: 3.0 Q: Do I need to submit a TOEFL or IELTS score for admission? A: Yes, if you are not graduating from a North American college or university. Q: Is admission available for spring term? A: No. Q: Do you offer any dedicated research time? A: Yes, minimally, each student has a full semester of research time allocated. Q: Are there opportunities for teaching/lab assistant positions? A: Yes, there are TA opportunities. In addition, there are part-time quality assurance positions at the hospitals. Q: Why Brown University? A: This program has a central core of research and resources that are stronger than any other Ivy League school. Q: Why Providence? Why Rhode Island? A: Providence, while compact, is a uniquely diverse city. Offering a breadth of artistic experiences, dining and entertainment from a wide range of backgrounds and cultures. Rhode Island has tremendous recreational as well as academic opportunities, numerous biking and hiking trails and miles of coastline. Graduate Program in Medical Physics Graduate Program in Medical Physics Brown University Box G-K4 Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top