[Skip to Content] Upstate Public Health MENU Close SEARCH UPSTATE People Finder Upstate Patient Care Academics Research Find a Doctor Library Locations Calendar Jobs Give to Upstate iPage Home About From the Director Administration Committees Program Accreditation Resources Where our MPH Will Take You Admissions Prospective Students Admission Events MPH Program Admissions MD-MPH Program Certificate of Public Health Program Referral Program Academic Programs MPH Program MD-MPH Program Certificate of Advanced Study in Public Health Micro-Credential General Education Competencies Students Forms Student Resources Student Life Policies Student & Alumni Publications Our Students in the News Grand Rounds Calendars Course Schedules Faculty & Staff Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Staff Faculty Publications Alumni Alumni Spotlights Give Give Toggle main menu visibility Upstate Public Health About From the Director Administration Committees Program Accreditation Resources Organizations US Government Agencies State and Local Government Agencies Statistics: Data Statistics: Tools Public Health Portals Public Health Jobs Where Will Our MPH Take You? Our Graduates Careers in Public Health Information Sessions Faculty, Student, and Alumni Publications Where our MPH Will Take You Admissions Prospective Students Student Testimonials Admission Events MPH Program Admissions MD-MPH Program Certificate of Public Health Program Referral Program Academic Programs MPH Program MPH Admissions MPH FAQs MD-MPH Degree MD-MPH Program How to Apply MD-MPH Student Testimonials Certificate of Advanced Study in Public Health Course Work Outline FAQs Micro-Credential General Education Competencies Students Forms Student Resources Student Life Policies Student & Alumni Publications Our Students in the News Grand Rounds Calendars Course Schedules Faculty & Staff Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Staff Faculty Publications Alumni Alumni Spotlights Give Grand Rounds 2020-2021 Grand Rounds 2019-2020 Grand Rounds 2018-2019 Grand Rounds 2017-2018 Grand Rounds 2016-2017 Grand Rounds 2015-2016 Grand Rounds 2014-2015 Grand Rounds 2013-2014 Grand Rounds Give Diversity & Inclusion Home > About > Program Accreditation Program Accreditation Program Accreditation The Council of Education for Public Health (CEPH) is the independent agency recognized by the United States Department of Education to accredit graduate schools of public health and public health programs outside schools of public health, at the baccalaureate and graduate degree levels. CEPH assists schools and programs in evaluating the quality of their instructional, research, and service efforts, and grants accreditation to those schools and programs that meet its published criteria. These schools and programs prepare students for entry into careers in public health. For more information regarding CEPH, please visit their website at https://ceph.org/. CEPH's accreditation procedures require that the program undertake a self-evaluation, submit a self-study document, and host a team of qualified peer reviewers who validate the self-study during an on-site visit to the campus. The Upstate MPH Program completed its most recent self-study process and submitted a final self-study document in partial fulfillment of the requirements for accreditation on May 2nd, 2019. Subsequently, CEPH conducted their site visit June 2-4, 2019. Upstate Public Health Self Study To request a copy of either the Upstate Public Health Program final self-study document or the CEPH final accreditation report, please contact the Upstate Public Health Program Office via email at publichealth@upstate.edu. Accreditation Decision On January 2nd, 2020, the Upstate Public Health Program received official notice that our Master of Public Health Program (MPH) had been accredited for a five-year term, extending to December 31, 2024, with an interim report due in fall 2020. The program offers two concentrations, Data and Analytics and Population Health for Clinicians. A copy of the official notice letter can be found by clicking the link below: CEPH Decision - January 2020 Why is Accreditation Important to Upstate Public Health? The following benefits, taken in part from the CEPH website, are just some of the many benefits of accreditation: For the public, accreditation promotes the health, safety and welfare of society by assuring competent public health professionals. For prospective students and their parents, accreditation serves a consumer protection purpose. It provides assurance that the school or program has been evaluated and has met standards established by and with the profession. For prospective employers, it provides assurance that the curriculum covers essential skills and knowledge needed for today's jobs. For graduates, it promotes professional mobility and enhances employment opportunities in positions that base eligibility upon graduation from an accredited school or program. For public health workers, it involves practitioners in the establishment of standards and assures that educational requirements reflect the current training needs of the profession. For the profession, it advances the field by promoting standards of practice and advocating rigorous preparation. For foundations and other private funding sources, it represents a highly desirable indicator of a program's quality and viability. For faculty members and administrators, the accreditation process promotes ongoing self-evaluation and continuous improvement, and provides an effective system for accountability. It also ensures that the Faculty puts into place, and monitors, policies and procedures that enhance teaching and learning, research development and productivity, and community service. Accreditation will enhance the national and international reputation of the Upstate Public Health program. For more information on accreditation, please visit the CEPH website or contact Michaele Webb, Evaluation & Accreditation Specialist, at webbmi@upstate.edu More Upstate Information Upstate Medical University Upstate Leadership Mission, Vision, Values College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Health Professions College of Graduate Studies Health Sciences Library Alumni & Friends Visitor's Guide Patient Care Upstate University Hospital Upstate Golisano Children's Hospital Upstate Community Hospital Upstate Cancer Center ER Wait Times Women's Health Find a Doctor MyChart More Links Upstate News About Upstate Maps & Directions Upstate Calendars Search Upstate Jobs Volunteer Give to Upstate Contact iPage Social Media Upstate Social Media All contents copyright © 1988-2022, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY Privacy Policy | Notice of Privacy Practices | Emergency Information | Freedom of Information | Accessibility Statement | Non-discrimination Statement Contact Public Health with questions about the content of this page. Top