Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia College | Columbia Engineering GradZone Log In Search Enter a keyword Search GradZone Home Ceremonies & Celebrations Guest Tickets: Class Day and Commencement Graduating Students Day-of-Ceremony Instructions: Columbia College Day-of-Ceremony Instructions: Columbia Engineering Yearbook and Senior Portraits Order Regalia Columbia College Graduate Spotlights Families & Guests Travel to Campus Accommodations Gifts and Announcements Campus Accessibility Dining & Attractions Multicultural Graduation Celebrations In honor of Columbia’s diverse student community and complementing the school- and University-wide graduation celebrations, we are proud to also offer Multicultural Graduation Celebrations, which provide a more intimate setting for students who self-identify in a variety of ways. These events invite community members to reflect on personal growth and community experiences that have impacted their time as students through to graduation. All students are invited to participate in these celebrations. Multicultural Affairs Graduation Cord Celebration: Tuesday, May 3, 2:00–4:00 p.m. EDT Lavender Graduation Celebration (LGBTQIA+ community): Wednesday, May 4, 6:30–9:00 p.m. EDT Asian Graduation Celebration: Thursday, May 5, 6:00–8:00 p.m. EDT FLI Graduation Celebration (First-generation and/or low-income community): Monday, May 16, 6:30–8:30 p.m. EDT Black Graduation Celebration: Tuesday, May 17, 2:00–4:30 p.m. EDT Latinx Graduation Celebration: Tuesday, May 17, 6:30–9:00 p.m. EDT Native Graduation Celebration: Wednesday, May 18 at 2:00–4:00 p.m. EDT Registration for graduating seniors is now open. Guest registration will open in mid-April. Graduation Cord Presentation Presented by Multicultural Affairs, the Multicultural Affairs Graduation Cords are given to graduating seniors in Columbia College, Columbia Engineering and the School of General Studies who have demonstrated an outstanding commitment to diversity, social justice and multiculturalism through Multicultural Affairs, campus leadership, community involvement, academic endeavors and/or personal dedication. Lavender Graduation Celebration Lavender Graduation Celebration is a celebration that celebrates our graduating LGBTQ and allied students. First started at the University of Michigan in 1995, the celebration is now conducted at hundreds of universities nationwide including Princeton, Duke, MIT and NYU. The color lavender, adopted by the gay movement in the 1960s, is the main color of Sayville (Gayville), NY. Sayville is near Fire Island, where the veterans of Stonewall hung out. This history of New York is honored during the celebration. Lavender Graduation is sponsored by Multicultural Affairs, Undergraduate Student Life and the Lavender Grad Committee. Support is provided by Columbia Pride (alumni group), Columbia Alumni Association and General Studies Student Life. Asian Graduation Celebration Asian Graduation Celebration is an annual celebration that recognizes the achievements of our graduating Asian (East Asian, South Asian and Southeast Asian) and Pacific Islander communities on campus. In collaboration with the Asian Columbia Alumni Association, we honor the legacies of heritages and histories, the voices that have individually and collectively impacted the University, and the invaluable network of shared strength and support among fellow Columbians, past and present. Asian Graduation is sponsored by Multicultural Affairs, Undergraduate Student Life. Support is provided by the Asian Columbia Alumni Association, Columbia Alumni Association and General Studies Student Life. FLI Graduation Celebration The FLI Graduation Celebration celebrates students who will be the first in their family to graduate from college or who come from low income backgrounds. This event provides an intimate setting for family, friends, alumni, faculty, staff and students to recognize the achievements and impact of first-generation and low income (FLI) students. This celebration is sponsored by the Multicultural Affairs, Undergraduate Student Life. Support is provided by Columbia First-generation Low-income Alumni Network, Columbia Alumni Association and General Studies Student Life. Black Graduation Celebration Black Graduation celebration serves as an intimate gathering for family, friends and members of the Columbia community to celebrate the culture and accomplishments of the undergraduate graduating class. This celebration has a long-standing history within the University and is a celebration of the accomplishments of Columbia and Barnard Black undergraduate graduates. Originally through the Black Students Organization, Black Graduation was first initiated by students who wanted the opportunity to celebrate their accomplishments and recognize the important role that Black students have played in shaping the landscape of Columbia. Black Graduation is sponsored by Multicultural Affairs, Undergraduate Student Life and Black Students Organization. Support is provided by Columbia Alumni Association and General Studies Student Life. Latinx Graduation Celebration Latinx Graduation Celebration (formerly Raza Graduation) has a long-standing history within the University of celebrating the accomplishments of our undergraduate Latinx graduates, as well as recognizing the role that Latinx students have played in shaping Columbia’s landscape. This celebration provides an intimate setting for students, faculty, staff, alumni, family and friends to honor the graduates, in addition to welcoming them into their important roles as Columbia and Barnard alumni. Latinx Graduation is co-sponsored by Multicultural Affairs, Undergraduate Student Life, Latino Alumni Association of Columbia University, Latinx Graduation Committee and numerous student organizations. Support is provided by Columbia Alumni Association and General Studies Student Life. Native Graduation Celebration Native Graduation Celebration provides an intimate setting for family, friends, alumni, faculty, staff and students to recognize the accomplishments of the graduates while embracing their new important roles as Columbia alumni. This celebration is co-sponsored by the Multicultural Affairs, Undergraduate Student Life and Native American Council. Support is provided by Columbia Alumni Association and General Studies Student Life. Countdown to Graduation We look forward to celebrating the Columbia College and Columbia Engineering Class of 2022! Engineering's Class Day ceremony will take place on Monday, May 16, followed by the College's ceremony on Tuesday, May 17. Learn more about this year's ceremonies and celebrations. COUNTDOWN TO CLASS DAY Fax: (212) 854-0470 Email the Class Day team (CC/SEAS Undergraduate Students) Email SEAS Graduate Student Affairs (SEAS Graduate Students) Email University Commencement Columbia College 208 Hamilton Hall, Mail Code 2805 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212-854-2441 Follow on Facebook Follow on Twitter Follow on Instagram Columbia Engineering 510 Mudd Hall, Mail Code 4714 500 W. 120th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212-854-2993 Follow on Facebook Follow on Twitter Follow on Instagram © 2022 Columbia University | Privacy | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination |University Home Page