Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Bioinformatics PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Bioinformatics PhD Apply Request More Info Bioinformatics PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bioinformatics PhD Become an expert in the computational analysis of biological data with the Bioinformatics PhD in Temple’s College of Science and Technology. This full-time, 36-credit-hour doctoral program integrates biology, chemistry, computer science, mathematics and statistics in a research-focused curriculum. You will develop, implement and manage tools for researching complex data. One of only a few bioinformatics doctoral programs in the Greater Philadelphia biotechnology hub, this program prepares you for advanced careers in both industry and postdoctoral academic research. You will have opportunities to collaborate with College of Science and Technology faculty and partners from Temple University Hospital and Temple's Fox Chase Cancer Center on cutting-edge computational methods. Current bioinformatics research is performed in many of Temple’s state-of-the-art labs and research centers, including the Center for Biophysics and Computational Biology, the Center for Data Analytics and Biomedical Informatics, the Center for Computational Genetics and Genomics, and the Center for Genomics and Evolutionary Medicine. Core faculty members study advances in areas such as biodiversity and the divergence of species over time; the dynamics, folding, function and structure in proteins; electronic health records, medical images and clinical data; and personalized genomics and genomic medicine. The Bioinformatics PhD curriculum focuses heavily on computational genomics, computational chemistry and the data sciences. Your first two years in the program include core coursework, giving you two to three years to focus solely on your research. In your first year, you’ll choose a specialty track in which to hone your expertise. The four tracks are Biological Data Analysis, which explores information analysis, management and retrieval, analysis and various applied disciplines; Evolutionary Genomics, which employs computational methods to investigate changes in genome structure across time; Evolutionary Medicine, an interdisciplinary field that studies the impact of natural environments on the biology of living organisms; and Structural Bioinformatics, which applies algorithms, data mining and programming languages to study macromolecular structure and protein folding. Program Requirements Doctoral candidates have seven years to complete the required courses, examinations and dissertation. All candidates must fulfill the following requirements for successful completion of the Bioinformatics PhD degree. Successful completion of all core curriculum courses with a minimum overall GPA of 3.0 (B grade) in each semester and a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0 for all work completed at Temple University. There can be no more than two grades of less than B-. The qualifying examination, which is a written exam that must be completed by the start of the student's fourth semester. It is designed to test a student’s understanding of biological phenomena, specific research areas and scientific writing. An original research proposal, which is a 15- to 20-page proposal that introduces a research problem and the student’s methodological plan for investigating the problem. The preliminary thesis examination, which is administered after a student’s research proposal has been approved by the Graduate Committee and tests a student’s understanding of the background and substance of the research proposal (if a student’s research proposal is not approved, the student is considered to have not passed the oral examination). The doctoral dissertation, an original, empirical study that demonstrates a student's knowledge of research methods and mastery of the primary area of research. All dissertation research is conducted under the guidance of the Doctoral Thesis Advisory Committee. The final dissertation defense, which is the culminating event for Bioinformatics PhD candidates. Students must successfully pass the dissertation defense for completion of the Bioinformatics PhD degree. Learn more about the Bioinformatics PhD degree requirements. Classes & Curriculum The Bioinformatics PhD curriculum requires 36 credit hours. Students take 12 credits of common core courses (required courses completed by all bioinformatics doctoral students), 6 credits of core courses (required courses in your chosen track), 6 credits of elective courses in their chosen track and 12 credits of research. Students may also take courses selected from the broad and diverse options across Temple's campus. The core courses for the Biological Data Analysis track are as follows. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Quantitative Science to Solve Global Problems The core courses for the Evolutionary Genomics track are as follows. Computational Genomics Population Genetics The core courses for the Evolutionary Medicine track are as follows. Computational Genomics Fundamentals of Genomic Evolutionary Medicine The core courses for the Structural Bioinformatics track are as follows. Structural Bioinformatics I Structural Bioinformatics II All courses and research take place at Temple’s Main Campus, where the program’s state-of-the-art labs and research centers are located. Learn more about required courses for the Bioinformatics PhD. Related Graduate Degrees Bioinnovation PSM Biology PhD Biotechnology PSM Chemistry PhD Computer and Information Science PhD Scientific Writing PSM Biomedical Sciences PhD* Related Graduate Certificates Scientific Writing *Lewis Katz School of Medicine Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities. There are two graduate advisors for the Department of Biology. Richard Waring is a professor and the graduate chair in the Department of Biology. Phone: 215-204-8877 Email: richard.waring@temple.edu Sandhya Verma is the graduate administrator in the Department of Biology. Phone: 215-204-8854 Email: sandhya.verma@temple.edu Program Contact Rob Kulathinal, director of the Bioinformatics PhD program, is the program contact for the Bioinformatics PhD. Phone: 215-204-0620 Email: robkulathinal@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Biology degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. the Biology Graduate Student Society, an organization that develops professional and leadership skills in doctoral students as well as encourages them to participate in public outreach. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. the Temple University Forensics Association, which helps students form an interest in forensic science through field trips and professional networking opportunities. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-BINF-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Bioinformatics PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info