Skip to main content Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Menu Search Cornell Services Home Services Support Security & Policy Teaching & Learning News About Us Quick Links and Search How can we help? Search IT@Cornell Go Quick Login More Login Links Canvas Cornell Box Faculty Center G Suite (Student Email) NUBB (student Internet use billing) Outlook on the Web Secure File Transfer Student Essentials Workday Zoom more links Services for... Students Faculty Staff IT Professionals Alumni & Visitors Students Student IT Resources Collaborate with others, stay organized, and keep your data and devices safe. Tips for using Zoom Tools for working remotely Options if you have restricted, weak, or slow Wi-Fi, or weak cellular service indoors Store and share files with Google Drive Learn More CU Print Manage Your CU Print Account Manage Your NetID Set security questions and change your password NUBB View Your Network Usage-Based Billing Get Started with Two-Step Login Student Orientation Presentation Student Orientation Presentation Before You Arrive Review the IT essentials for new students Activate your NetID Set up Cornell Two-Step Login View your registration, enrollment, student financials, course options, and more While You Are Here Connect to campus Wi-Fi (eduroam) Download Microsoft Office 365 ProPlus for free Use Cornell G Suite for your email, calendar, and collaboration needs Learn new skills for free with LinkedIn Learning and Skillsoft Protect your devices and stay safe online Access course materials with Canvas Find CU Print printers on campus Book a study space (quiet space, Zoom space, or small group space) Collaboration Tools Zoom Box Cornell Secure File Transfer Graduating or leaving? See What Happens When You Leave: Steps to Take Regarding Specific IT Services. Students Articles see all Remote Options for Poor Wi-Fi or Cellular Service If you are working in an area that has restricted, weak, or slow Wi-Fi, or weak cellular service indoors, consider whether these options might be useful. Please note that Cornell does not endorse... Security Practices When Working from Home For information on how to teach remotely, visit the Center for Teaching Innovation's Planning for Teaching Remotely. See what tools can help you work remotely. Please also see COVID-19:... Students: Protect Your Data, Identity, and Privacy Keep your passwords safe Is your NetID password strong enough? Report if your NetID password is compromised Use Two-Step Login: Add an extra... Tools for Working Remotely Whether for personal reasons (illness, family care, etc.) or broader situations (pandemic, severe weather, etc.), you may need to be able to conduct your work from remote locations. This article summarizes how university IT services can help with that. Helpful Student Information Sign Up for Cornell LastPass Account These steps explain how to get started with Cornell's password management service, LastPass. Connect to eduroam (Mac) Connect to the eduroam secure wireless network with a Mac. Find Out Where an Email Came From (Read Email Headers) It is easy to fake what appears in the From or Reply-to line of an email message. Check the message headers to discover the message's real origin. Message headers are the material that comes... Frequently Asked Questions About Box Get answers to your questions about Box How CU VPN Works Understand how Cornell's VPN service connects you to IT resources hosted on campus. How to Uninstall Filesharing Software To stop uploading, you must do one of the following: Completely remove the filesharing software from your computer (recommended). See directions below. Locate and change the... Identity Theft Resources Tips for protecting yourself against identity theft Spot Fraudulent Emails (Phishing) Confirm the source Some phishes (fraudulent email) targeting Cornell are listed at the IT@Cornell Phish Bowl. Some trusted emails from departments are listed at Verified Cornell... Students: Protect Your Data, Identity, and Privacy Keep your passwords safe Is your NetID password strong enough? Report if your NetID password is compromised Use Two-Step Login: Add an extra... Travel Internationally with Technology The Cornell IT Security Office (ITSO) recommends the following baseline precautions while traveling internationally. In the event your devices are lost, stolen, or altered while traveling,... What happens when you graduate: steps to take before becoming an alum Plan now to transfer data important to you, such as passwords, surveys, publications, research, blogs, presentations, et cetera. Protect Your Data, Identity, and Privacy Identity theft is real. Is your NetID password strong enough? Find out here. Report if your NetID password is compromised. Apply best practices to your mobile device. See examples of phishing emails that have been spotted at Cornell. Use Cornell's VPN (virtual private network) service when you need to connect to campus resources that would otherwise be unavailable from distant networks. Secure password storage with LastPass. Make sure your computer has antivirus software. Research Tools Qualtrics Survey Tool Cornell provides a survey tool, Qualtrics, for use at no cost by Cornell students, faculty, staff, and retirees. Users can create and distribute their own surveys and gather information in support of the university's educational mission and organizational goals. CISER The Cornell Institute for Social and Economic Research is a strategic partner who can help take your research to the next level with a full continuum of tools and expertise. We offer a range of support, technology, and collaboration in each of our focus areas: data services, research, computing resources, consulting, and training. CAC Cornell University's Center for Advanced Computing offers staff and students research education and outreach, as well as computing and consulting services that range from HPC systems and storage to programming, database development, and web portal design. Was this page helpful? Your feedback helps improve the site. YesNo Comments? To share feedback about this page, log in with your NetID. Need assistance with an IT@Cornell service? Contact the Service Desk instead. Support Get Help IT Training Verified Cornell Communications News and Events News TeamDynamix Sandbox Refresh Scheduled for June 3, 2022 CUView Login Unavailable Monday, May 23, 2022, from 8:20-9:00am, During System Maintenance Live Transcription Now Available in Microsoft Teams more... Events No upcoming events. Having an IT-related event? Submit it here! Follow IT@Cornell... Facebook Twitter Yammer Log In Site Information Contact Webmaster Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance CIT Staff Intranet Cornell University ©2022