Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Parking & Transportation Menu University of Texas at Austin Home Financial and Administrative Services The University of Texas at Austin Financial and Administrative Services Parking & Transportation Search Search Search Search Home Expand Parking Expand Parking Garages Events Disability / ADA Parking Faculty/Staff Parking Student Parking Visitor Parking Departmental Parking Vendor Parking RecSports Membership Parking Parking & Traffic Regulations Permit Disruptions Transportation Expand BikeUT Capital Metro Car Share (Zipcar) Carpool Electric Scooters Electric Vehicles Lyft for Departments MetroRideShare UT Night Rides Shuttles Walking and Sure Walk Vending Machines Expand Vending Machine Locations Refund Request Service Request Fleet Operations Expand Fuel Forms & Policies Maintenance Reporting Purchasing/Disposal Voyager Card Program Vans Citations Expand Appeal Citation Boot Information How to Avoid Citations Pay Citation Maps Expand Campus Parking Map Visitor's Parking Maps PRC & WPR Map Shuttle Routes GPS Coordinates Bike UT Maps About Expand Annual Reports Awards & Recognition Organizational Chart PTS in the Media PTS Staff My Parking Profile Expand Home Parking : Visitor Parking Visitor Parking The University of Texas at Austin welcomes hundreds of visitors to campus daily. Parents, friends of the university, official visitors, conference attendees, and vendors are all vital to the function of the schools, facilities, and services. There is no free visitor parking on the main campus (aside from loading zone parking). Visitors are advised to park in university parking garages. No permit is required to park in the garages; just pull a ticket on your way in and process it at the exit, a paystation, or the garage office before you leave. Fees are calculated based on the amount of time you are in the garage. Garage daily parking offers the closest, most convenient spaces to all areas of the university for visitors. All surface parking lots as well as street parking require permits specific to the area from 7:30 a.m. to 5:45 p.m., Monday through Friday. Outside of these hours, most spaces require any university permit with limited spaces open for parking without a permit. Caution: Read signs carefully. Each surface parking lot is signed at the entrance and further restrictions are usually designated within the lot. Visitors to Pickle Research Campus are advised to make arrangements with the department with which they have business prior to their visit. All visitors are required to follow the university's Parking & Traffic Regulations if they are bringing a car onto campus. Quick Links Parking 101 Visitor Parking Map Campus Access Battery and Locked Car Assistance Parking & Traffic Regulations Visitor Parking Parking Garages Events Pickle Research Campus (PRC) Visitors with Disabilities Short-Term Parking Camps and Conferences Parking & Transportation PTS Office - Trinity Parking Garage (TRG) 1815 Trinity St. Email: parking@utexas.edu Website problems? Contact FAS Communications fascommweb@austin.utexas.edu Parking Garages Parking Maps Student Parking UT Shuttles Visitor Parking UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022