Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Psychology PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Psychology PhD Apply Request More Info Psychology PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Psychology Labs Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Psychology PhD Focus your studies in the field of psychology and advance your research expertise with a Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. The Psychology and Neuroscience Department's doctoral program offers the resources and unique, hands-on experience required to develop your skills and position yourself for professional research opportunities. As a doctoral student in psychology, you’re tasked with delving into the complexities of the human mind through research opportunities, cross-disciplinary coursework and clinical work. Temple’s Psychology students are not only preparing for their professional endeavors—they’re advancing the field of psychology. As one of only 131 universities in the United States to be classified as an R1 research institution, Temple is proud to offer not only innovative, applicable coursework, but a breadth of interdisciplinary research possibilities. The Psychology PhD program offers the following four areas of study in which students can specialize. Clinical psychology Cognition and neuroscience Developmental psychology Social psychology We also have optional training emphases in human neuroimaging and behavioral neuroscience. A concentration in Quantitative Methods is also available for students who wish to receive intensive training in contemporary statistical methods. Doctoral students interested in neuroscience may also complete a neuroscience specialization via the Neuroscience program in the College of Liberal Arts. Many PhD students go on to postdoctoral research or faculty positions at well-known institutions, where they carry out research in diverse areas from behavioral neuroscience to clinical science. Learn more about the career opportunities available to Psychology PhD graduates. Research Opportunities Our program combines graduate coursework with intensive research experience, working closely with faculty, other students, postdoctoral researchers and full-time research staff. Much of the research in our department is collaborative, often involving the sharing of expertise across different laboratories. Many projects also involve collaborations with researchers at other universities in the U.S. and other countries. Program Format & Curriculum The doctoral program requires full-time study. The particular course and internship requirements depend on the area of specialization. The general program course requirements are as follows. Clinical Psychology Cognition and Neuroscience Developmental Psychology Social Psychology Further course and internship requirements depend on the area of specialization. Learn more about the requirements for completing your PhD in Psychology. Related Graduate Degrees Applied Sociology PSM Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS Psychological Research MS Sociology MA Sociology PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For questions regarding the Psychology PhD, contact the following staff member. Deborah Drabick is the director of graduate studies in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Phone: 215-204-0957 Email: debora.drabick@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Peter Marshall is chair of the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Phone: 215-204-7360 Email: pjmarsh@temple.edu Peter James is the associate chair of the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Phone: 215-204-3409 Email: pjames@temple.edu Vanessa Allen-Smith is the graduate coordinator for the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. Phone: 215-204-7667 Email: vallens@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Psychology PhD coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. Psychology graduate students are encouraged to become involved with the Psychology Graduate Students for Inclusivity—a graduate student group aimed at promoting diversity and inclusivity in the Psychology and Neuroscience Department, in research and in clinical work. Learn more about the Psychology Graduate Students for Inclusivity student organization. Accreditation The Clinical Psychology specialization is accredited by the American Psychological Association, as well as the Psychological Clinical Science Accreditation System. Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-PSY-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Psychology PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Psychology Labs Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info