Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The University of Virginia SIS Collab Email Jobs Info For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Search form Search Close Main Menu Main menu About Us Go to About Us Charlottesville & Beyond Facts & Figures Visit Academics Go to Academics Schools Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies International Studies Continuing & Executive Education Academic Calendar J-Term & Summer Session Undergraduate Majors Online Learning Admission Undergraduate Admission Apply Tuition & Affordability Undergraduate Majors & Programs Clubs & Activities Sports & Recreation Student-Self Governance Housing & Residence Life What’s Next for UVA’s Class of 2022? Arts Athletics Health System Libraries Research You are here Home University Events X University Events Submit an Event Search Events Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Close UVA Calendar Submission Guidelines Those submitting events may request their event appear on the upcoming events list if the event meets the following guidelines: Calendar events should be event focused and not news or announcement related. Only events hosted by UVA, its schools, departments, units and approved programs are eligible for publication. The event must be in accordance with relevant state and University policies and established practices. UVA will not publish or permit to be published events and information that the University considers offensive, improper, obscene, dangerous, libelous, false or illegal or which violate a third party's right of privacy. Listing of University-sponsored fund-raising events is welcome, but listings of private and/or commercial events are not permitted. Events intended to support the political campaigns of individuals seeking public office are also not permitted with the exception of events related to campaigns for student government offices. UVA reserves the right not to publish, to edit, or to remove from publication without cause or notice any event submitted to the calendar or to suspend calendar privileges to any group or individual who violates these guidelines. Any opinions expressed or implied by event postings are solely those of their sponsors. Sponsors are solely responsible for their own submissions, including but not limited to matters of fact and libel. Sponsors are also responsible for securing appropriate permission for use of University facilities and the use of material protected by copyright and trademark laws. University of Virginia Instagram Twitter Facebook YouTube Footer Utilities Non-Discrimination Notice UVA Tuition Notice Wise Tuition Notice Consumer Information Accessibility Emergency SIS FOIA Privacy © 2022 By The Rector And Visitors Of The University Of Virginia