Main navigation Search Content Footer menu Basic info & contact footer Main Nav 2 Home Help with... helpwith-col-one Access My account Borrowing BorrowDirect+ Alumni access Off-campus access helpwith-col-two Research Guides by topic Services for authors Research data & digital scholarship Tutorials helpwith-col-three Questions & appointments Quick start guide Make an appointment Technology & methods consultants Canvas support Ask a question helpwith-col-four Spaces & tools Find a library space Reserve a space Virtual computer lab Software finder Borrow equipment Libraries libraries-col-one Heading Albrecht Music Library Annenberg Library Biddle Law Library Biotech Commons Chemistry Library Education Commons libraries-col-two Heading Fisher Fine Arts Library Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts Levy Dental Medicine Library LIBRA Library at the Katz CAJS Lippincott Library of the Wharton School libraries-col-three Heading Math/Physics/Astronomy Library Penn Museum Library University Archives Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center Veterinary Medicine Libraries Weigle Information Commons Collections collection-col-one Heading Franklin (search & browse our catalog) Databases & article Indexes BorrowDirect+ (search & browse partner libraries) Research guides collection-col-two Heading Collections by subject Subject specialists Collections development policies Suggest a purchase collection-col-three Heading Special collections University Archives Digital projects Online exhibits News & events news-col-one Heading Penn Libraries News Subscribe to our newsletter news-col-two Heading Exhibits & events Lectures & conferences 30 days of events news-col-three Heading Workshops About about-col-one Heading Strategic Plan 2020-25 Strategic Plan Implementation Locations & hours Social media about-col-two Heading Staff directory Committees Human resources Resources for Libraries staff about-col-three Heading Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Accessibility Policies & guidelines for users Contact us Giving giving-col-one Our approach Our team FAQ Gifts of materials giving-col-two Our priorities Advance Engage Preserve Enrich giving-col-three Your impact Top talent Learning spaces Information resources Programs & outreach Innovations & partnerships giving-col-four Latest news Stories Press releases Penn Libraries in the News Give now Main content Search Penn Libraries News: Stories Collections Press releases Penn Libraries in the news Stories Collections Penn Libraries Unearths Dissertation of Trailblazing 19th Century Physician M. Alice Bennett Posted on March 16, 2022 by Amanda Alexander Mary Alice Bennett (1851-1925), Ph.D. 1880, portrait photograph, University Archives The University of Pennsylvania plays a major role in the preservation and documentation of the history of women in medicine, and the Penn Libraries recently located and digitized a record that tells an important part of this story. The dissertation of M. Alice Bennett, the first woman to receive a degree from Penn, sheds light on her medical interests as a student at Penn’s School of Auxiliary Medicine before she began a trailblazing career in psychiatry and women’s health care. Eric Dillalogue, Assistant Director of Operations at the Kislak Center, tracked down this historic document after learning about its existence from Dr. Kenneth J. Weiss, the Robert L. Sadoff Clinical Professor of Forensic Psychiatry in the Perelman School of Medicine. Weiss has studied Bennett’s career and work since 2013 and has written numerous papers about her contributions to the field of psychiatry and the treatment of female mental patients. Although Weiss initiated the search for this document with his own research in mind, he emphasized its value as part of the historical record given Bennett’s significant role as a mental health care pioneer who changed the way patients, particularly women, were treated. Today Bennett is remembered for her innovations in the humane treatment of people with mental illness. She prohibited the use of restraints like straightjackets and introduced occupational therapy for patients including music, painting, and crafts. According to the University Archives, Bennett argued, “I can have no shadow of doubt that extraordinary precautions often suggest, or increase, the violence they are intended to prevent. Freedom of action is a wonderful tranquilizer.” In honor of these forward-thinking practices, former Penn President Amy Gutmann named the Mary Alice Bennett University Professorship and awarded it for the first time in December 2021. The way Bennett’s career unfolded is unorthodox by today’s standards. She earned a degree from the Women’s Medical College of Pennsylvania in 1876 and then enrolled at Penn to study anatomy. She juggled her studies at Penn with two jobs: as a volunteer at a Philadelphia dispensary where she offered health care to poor women, and as an anatomy teacher at the Women’s Medical College. “She had no demonstrated interest in mental health matters,” Weiss says. “In 1876, when Dr. Bennett graduated from the women’s medical college, she was fully intending ... to teach anatomy." Bennett would not go on to teach, though. Upon graduation, she was approached by Dr. Hiram Corson of Plymouth Meeting who in addition to practicing medicine was considered an advocate for abolitionism and women in medicine. “Dr. Corson understood that it might be advantageous in the mental health field for female patients to be treated by female doctors,” Weiss says. Corson began recruiting women into the mental health field and asked Bennett to run the women’s division of a new asylum in Norristown in 1880. Weiss believes she was the first woman in the United States to hold a psychiatric leadership role. Bennett would spend the next 16 years at what was called the State Hospital for the Insane for the South-Eastern District of Pennsylvania, now known as Norristown State Hospital. While at the asylum, Bennett provided expert testimony in a criminal trial, which Weiss believes was likely another “first.” She applied psychiatry to the law in defense of Sarah Whiteling, who was accused of fatally poisoning her husband and two children in order to collect insurance money. Bennett believed mental illness made Whiteling less culpable and continued to campaign for a commutation of her sentence after she was found guilty, though she was ultimately unsuccessful. Although Bennett was unable to convince the jury, Weiss says her arguments showed that she was ahead of her time in bringing “sensitivity to diversity in psychology.” While attending a Pittsburgh convention as the president of the Montgomery County Medical Society—she was the first woman in the country to hold such a position--Bennett made another remarkable choice. She learned about the Johnstown flood, in which thousands of people were killed, and decided to act as a psychiatric first responder. “She speculated that there would be mass hysteria and gross psychic trauma to the inhabitants, the survivors, so she rushed over there,” Weiss says. “She contributed by making people aware that individuals who have experienced disasters might be in need of immediate mental health services.” Bennett’s willingness to try new approaches led her to study several potential contributors to mental illness (which was not categorized into different diagnoses the way it is today), such as kidney disease, heart disease, and ocular conditions. “Dr. Bennett was continuing to try to understand the physiology of insanity, ‘insanity’ being a medical term at that time,” Weiss says. This led her to oversee ovariectomies (the removal of both ovaries, which today is called an oophorectomy) of several patients based on a theory that this procedure would lessen mental illness symptoms for patients. This practice was performed without patient consent and was investigated by a medical review board. Although Bennett was not asked to leave, she apparently resigned from her post at the asylum in response to this scrutiny of her work. She continued to work in psychiatry, however, and took on a job as the attending psychiatrist for a young lady from a wealthy family who is thought to have had schizophrenia. She held this position for about four years and resigned in 1900, after which there is still a gap in the historic record. Eventually, she moved back to Massachusetts, where she apprenticed herself to a doctor and became an obstetrician. Bennett emerged again in 1910, this time in New York City, where she worked and apparently lived in a downtown hospital. She would deliver more than 2,000 babies before her death in 1925. Weiss said the record shows Bennett delivered babies free of charge, and it is unclear how she supported herself. She never married or had children of her own. Weiss has been on the hunt for Bennett’s written works for years, and her dissertation – while not directly related to her career in psychiatry – helped fill in another piece of the puzzle. “This dissertation is fully catalogued and is available in Colenda [the Penn Libraries’ digital repository] for anyone to view,” Eric Dillalogue of the Kislak Center says. Dillalogue’s search was a complex undertaking because the dissertation was part of an archive of records that were catalogued according to the outdated Dewey Decimal system. These materials are slated to be re-catalogued and digitized. “These early dissertations are all handwritten. In general, people had very good penmanship but … the paper isn’t necessarily the highest quality. Sometimes it’s just difficult to determine the strokes of the pencil or the pen,” Dillalogue says. “It’s difficult, but that’s one of the reasons that we do these high-resolution scans.” Without Weiss’s outreach, Dillalogue would not have known the significance of Bennett's work. “We would have processed this dissertation and put it on the shelf” without knowing its context. “[Weiss] really gave us a much richer picture of the material.” Related Albrecht Music Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Van Pelt Library Biddle Law Library Area Studies Fisher Fine Arts Library Penn Museum Library Biotech Commons Area Studies Annenberg School for Communication Library Fisher Fine Arts Library Penn Museum Library Van Pelt Library Biddle Law Library Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Van Pelt Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Biotech Commons Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Van Pelt Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Penn Museum Library Demography Library Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Van Pelt Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Area Studies Fisher Fine Arts Library Penn Museum Library Van Pelt Library Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts Library at the Katz Center for Advanced Judaic Studies Van Pelt Library Penn Museum Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Demography Library Biotech Commons Biddle Law Library Penn Museum Library Van Pelt Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Area Studies Fisher Fine Arts Library Biotech Commons Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Annenberg School for Communication Library Demography Library Van Pelt Library Area Studies Biotech Commons Fisher Fine Arts Library Penn Museum Library Biddle Law Library Recent Posts June Featured Books and DVDs: Pride Month More to Explore on Women in the American Wilderness Diversity in the Stacks: North African Books in French Exploring the meanings of "home": Children’s lit recommendations from the Penn Libraries Community Engagement team Penn Libraries Announces Warhol@Penn Again Series May Featured Books and DVDs: Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month  “Translating Warhol,” a Symposium Diversity in the Stacks: Folk and Tribal Arts in South Asia Penn Students, Faculty, and Staff Can Now Access Selections from the Criterion Collection through Kanopy Penn Libraries Joins Elsevier Open Access Pilot Archive May 2022 April 2022 March 2022 February 2022 January 2022 December 2021 November 2021 October 2021 September 2021 August 2021 July 2021 June 2021 May 2021 April 2021 March 2021 February 2021 January 2021 December 2020 November 2020 October 2020 September 2020 August 2020 July 2020 June 2020 May 2020 April 2020 March 2020 February 2020 January 2020 December 2019 November 2019 October 2019 September 2019 August 2019 July 2019 June 2019 May 2019 April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 November 2018 October 2018 August 2018 June 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 Pennlib news blog department menu show menu items Older news show submenu Departmental Library news show submenu Albrecht Music Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Architectural Archives Area Studies Athenaeum of Philadelphia Barbara Bates Center for the Study of the History of Nursing Biddle Law Library Biomedical Library Chemistry Library Demography Library Education Commons Engineering Collection Fisher Fine Arts Library Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts LIBRA - Penn Libraries Research Annex Levy Dental Medicine Library Library at the Katz Center for Advanced Judaic Studies Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Math/Physics/Astronomy Library Morris Arboretum Penn Museum Archives Penn Museum Library Pennsylvania Hospital Medical Library University Archives & Records Center Van Pelt Library Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center Veterinary - Campus: Atwood Veterinary Medicine Library Veterinary - NBC: duPont Veterinary Medicine Library Weigle Information Commons Footer: Sitemap for navigation Social media Footer: Penn Libraries contact info Penn Libraries 215-898-7555 Questions University of Pennsylvania ©University of Pennsylvania Edit 5006