Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Hall of Distinction JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Climate & the Environment Energy Geosciences Marine Geosciences Planetary Sciences & Geobiology Solid Earth & Tectonic Processes Surface & Hydrologic Processes Research Disciplines Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Advising Admissions Internal Transfers Degrees Offered Jackson Scholars Program Honors Program Financial Support Courses & Catalogs Field Experiences Why Geosciences? TNT 2021 Graduate Advising Admissions Degrees Offered EER Graduate Program Find a Supervisor Financial Support Courses & Catalogs External Grants & Scholarships Graduate Studies Committee Advising & Program Coordination Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services Career Center Geology Library Holland Family Student Center People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Chemical or Physical Hydrogeology Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Structural Geology/Tectonics JSG Community Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Research Scientists Postdocs Staff Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Desk Blogs Texas Geosciences Science Y’all In the News Scientist Profiles Newsletter 2015 Newsletter 2014 Newsletter PDF Archive Media Contacts Events DeFord Lecture Series Master’s Saturday Heads/Chairs on the Future of Undergraduate Geoscience Education Workshop Summit Materials, PowerPoints and Webcast Archive Background Reading Agenda Graduation Distinguished Lectures Association Meetings GSA 2014 SEG 2012 GSA 2012 2011 Meetings DGS Vehicle Reservation Calendar Submit an Event Skip to main content Close Search Bar Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies SearchMake a Gift About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Units Offices Contacts Diversity and Inclusion JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Graduate Advising Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services People JSG Directory Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Employment Opportunities Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Office Blogs In the News Newsletter Media Contacts Events Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Association Meetings Summits JSG Graduation Menu Home Events JSG Graduation JSG Graduation Friday, May 20, 2022 12:00pm – 1:30pm Bass Concert Hall The Jackson School of Geosciences holds commencement ceremonies each May to honor the graduates and candidates of the entire academic year. The May 2022 commencement ceremony includes Fall 2021, Spring 2022 and approved Summer 2022 graduates. Attendance at the school graduation ceremony is optional. Commencement Details 8:30 – 11:00 am – Breakfast Breakfast for JSG students/faculty/guests Location: Jackson School of Geosciences, 2305 Speedway, Holland Family Center, JGB 2.102 11:00 am – Student & Faculty Walk to Bass Concert Hall Location: Bass Concert Hall, 2350 Robert Dedman Dr., Austin TX, 78712 12:00 – 1:30pm – Ceremony Ceremony begins promptly at 12 noon Doors will open for guest seating approximately 1 hour before the ceremony. The college anticipates that the ceremony will last 1.5-2 hours. Out of respect for all graduates, please plan to arrive on time and be present until the end of the ceremony. Participating graduates and faculty members, please review respective FAQs for arrival time, check-in room locations, etc. Location: Bass Concert Hall, 2350 Robert Dedman Dr., Austin TX, 78712 Parking Information regarding parking and directions is available on the University Commencement website, and the Parking and Transportation Services website. Please note that visitor traffic is significant during commencement days and you should anticipate longer travel and parking times. Accessibility Drop Off Mobility impaired candidates or guests who cannot walk comfortably more than 5′ are advised to bring their own wheelchair to the event. Due to the expected attendance, individuals are encouraged to secure the necessary equipment prior to arriving at the venue the day of the event. Participating graduates are asked to notify the JSG commencement coordinator if any of their guests require accessibility and/or mobility assistance. Campus Safety & Security The university has security procedures in place for all commencement ceremonies and venues. Please review the information below and plan accordingly to avoid delays. For more information view the full policy. Backpacks, tote bags, or any bags larger than 12 inches in any dimension will not be allowed into the venue. Do not bring any packages that cannot be opened or inspected to the venue. In addition, security officers may search all bags including purses, camera cases, etc. before allowing guests to enter the venue. Those visitors bringing small bags should expect delays in order to enter the venue, and those with prohibited large bags will be turned away. Personal Items Visitors should be aware of the campus safety and security procedures referenced above regarding bags and other items allowed into the venue. Graduates and participating faculty should not bring personal items (purses, coats) to the ceremony as they cannot be left in the prep/green room(s) and there is no area to secure them during the ceremony. It is recommended that those participating in the ceremony carry cell phones and keys on a wristlet or in clothing with pockets. Academic Regalia & Appropriate Dress Academic Regalia Academic Regalia is required for all degree candidates and consists of: Black Robe Mortar Board Tassel Hood Stole BA/BS X X Geosciences N/A Geosciences MA/MS X X Geosciences Geosciences N/A PhD – Custom All inclusive set (burnt orange gown, hood, tam w/gold tassel) N/A PhD – Traditional w/velvet inlays mortarboard or tam Geosciences or gold (depends on hat choice) Traditional Doctoral Hood N/A Academic regalia may be purchased from the University Coop; Doctoral caps & gowns are available for purchase or rent (see University Co-op website for details). University Coop Regalia Purchase/Rental Deadlines – Spring 2020 Doctoral Purchase March 18th Doctoral Rental April 15th Bachelor’s Purchase Deadline April 29th Master’s Purchase Deadline April 29th Graduating students that choose to borrow regalia, still need to purchase a tassel and stole or hood. Only academic related additions to the regalia are allowed (ex. UT Austin orange/white honor cords, honor society stoles, etc.) Appropriate Dress Students should wear an appropriate outfit, preferably business casual attire, underneath their regalia. For safety reasons please be mindful of the shoes you plan to wear for the commencement ceremony. The stairs to and from the stage may be slick and rather steep. It is recommended that graduates not wear overly high heels or flip flops for the commencement ceremony. Guest Seating Seating for the JSG Spring Commencement ceremony will be available on a first-to-arrive, first-seated basis. Seats cannot be held or reserved for late arriving guests. Out of respect for our graduates, once the ceremony begins guests seated in the main auditorium are expected to attend the entire ceremony. Accessibility Accommodations Accessible seating is limited and available on a first-come, first-seated basis. Mobility impaired candidates or guests who cannot walk comfortably more than 5’ are advised to bring their own wheelchairs to the event. Due to the expected attendance, individuals are encouraged to secure the necessary equipment on their own prior to arriving at the venue the day of the event. While every effort will be made we may be unable to fulfill every accommodation request, particularly those not conveyed in advance to the event coordinators. We thank you in advance for your patience and understanding. JSG Commencement Speaker Mark Cloos Professor, Department of Geological Sciences, Jackson School of Geosciences Getty Oil Company Centennial Chair in Geological Sciences University Commencement All Jackson School graduates and their families are encouraged to take part in the University-wide Spring Commencement on Saturday, May 21, 2022 at the UT Tower. Consult the event website for more information about pre-ceremony activities, parking, participant tickets and more. Invitations Invitations may be purchased from the University Co-op. Photography Details to be provided once confirmed. Diplomas There are several steps to ensure you’re ready to receive your diploma. Visit the UT Registrar’s website for details and instructions asap. Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Summits Association Meetings JSG Graduation University Commencement Mailing Address Jackson School of Geosciences 2305 Speedway Stop C1160 Austin, TX 78712-1692 Phone (512) 471-6048 Support JSG Departments & Units Department of Geological Sciences Bureau of Economic Geology Institute for Geophysics Administration & Offices College Leadership Career Services Business Services Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Office Helpful Links UT Austin UT Direct Emergency Information IT Help JSG Directory JSG Profiles Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed © 2022 Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader