Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information for: Admitted Students Alumni Current Students Education Partners Executive Education Faculty International Students Nondegree Students Prospective Faculty Veterans Visiting Students Transfer Students Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Diversity & Inclusion History & Mission Facts & Figures Events News & Announcements Contact Related Links Advising Maps & Directions FAQs Admission Overview How to Apply Why Choose Woods? Tuition & Aid Visit Alumni Tuition Discount Related Links Articulation Agreements Course Schedule & Registration Process Events Facts & Figures Undergraduate Overview Bachelor's Degree Applied Liberal Arts (ALA) Business Communication Corporate Systems Criminal and Social Justice Economics English Concentration (ALA) History Concentration (ALA) Information Systems Interdisciplinary Studies Concentration (ALA) Natural Sciences Philosophy Concentration (ALA) Political Science Concentration (ALA) Psychology Sociology Concentration (ALA) Sustainability Certificate Related Links Advising BC Summer Session Course Schedule & Registration Process Nondegree Students Visiting Students Resources for Current Students Woods Academic Calendar Graduate Overview Master's Programs M.S. in Applied Analytics M.S. in Applied Economics Articulation Agreements MSAE Advisory Board M.S. in Applied Economics & Cybersecurity Policy & Governance Master of Healthcare Administration M.S. in Leadership & Administration M.S. in Sports Administration Certificates Corporate Communications and Marketing Online Certificate in Data Analytics Executive Leadership and Organizational Development Human Resources Management Project Management Cybersecurity Graduate Certificates Cybersecurity Analytics Sports Analytics Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Related Links Academic Policies BC Summer Session Executive Education Nondegree Students Registration Process Student Life Woods Academic Calendar Community Overview Jesuit Values Advising Woods College Graduation Process Living in Boston BC Resources Related Links Campus Life Career Center Events Manresa Experience Veterans Experience Course Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Related Links Academic Calendar Woods Faculty Resources Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Woods College site Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Admitted Students Alumni Current Students Education Partners Executive Education Faculty International Students Nondegree Students Prospective Faculty Veterans Visiting Students Transfer Students BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close There is a ransomware attack every 11 seconds. It's time to fight cyber with cyber. Home Graduate Master's Programs M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance The increase of serious threats on public and private institutions means it's not a question of whether cyberattacks will happen, but when. The Cybersecurity Policy and Governance program is led by top cybersecurity experts who are building a safer future right now. With an emphasis on leadership, critical thinking, analytic problem solving, and communication skills, our program will prepare you to meet and respond to the urgent challenges of today’s cyber ecosystem. Apply Inquire At a Glance How many courses? Ten courses—six core courses and four electives in your specialization. Flexible Scheduling Study full- or part-time online, on campus during the evening, or in any combination that works for you. How much does it cost? The tuition rate for the 2022–2023 Academic Year is $3,894 per course. Deep, Cross-Industry Expertise Complex problems require multiple perspectives. Our program brings together cybersecurity leaders in government, business, and academia. Government "We need a thoughtful and sensible approach, one that may vary across business models and technologies, but—and I can’t stress this enough—we need to work fast."— Christopher Wray, Director, FBI at the Boston Conference on Cyber Security Business “The CPG Program is at the right place at the right time. There is a critical need for security professionals that can cope with advanced threats and advanced adversaries and help to drive cybersecurity policy across enterprises.”—Cynthia J. Larose, Esq., Mintz Academia "Boston College is taking the lead in cybersecurity. We are bringing the top leaders and experts into our classrooms to provide our students with the necessary hands-on experience to succeed in defending organizations against cyber-attacks." – Kevin Powers, J.D., Founding Director CPG in the News New "smishing" text scam Verizon is working to halt “smishing," a practice in which scam texts appear to come from the user's own cell phone number. Kevin R. Powers, director of the Woods College M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance program, comments for The Boston Globe. Read article GetRScore helps organizations assess ability to recover from ransomware attack New resource results from collaboration between Boston College and private security, infotech, and data protection companies. Kevin Powers, founder and director of the M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance program was part of the research team. Read article China’s Privacy Law Adds to International Compliance Patchwork China’s new Personal Information Protection Law imposes additional requirements for multinational companies in the region, adding legal and regulatory challenges for businesses already grappling with U.S. state-level and European privacy regimes. Kevin R. Powers, founder and director of the Woods College's M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance program, commented for Bloomberg Law. Read article Treasury sanctions crypto exchange Suex in push to thwart ransomware "Some virtual currency exchanges are exploited by malicious actors, but others, as is the case with Suex, facilitate illicit activities for their own illicit gains," the Treasury said. Kevin R. Powers, founder and director of the Woods College's M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance program, discussed the Treasury's move to sanction crypto exchange Suex in a push to thwart ransomware in an interview with Cybersecurity Dive. Read article M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy & Governance Program Director Kevin R. Powers, J.D. As founder and director of the M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy & Governance program, Kevin draws on his 20 years of law enforcement, military, cyber and national security, privacy law, business, higher education, and teaching experience. View Profile Our Faculty Meet Our Faculty We've convened today’s top cybersecurity leaders in government, industry, and academia to shape a safer cybersphere for today and into the future. Incident Response Kevin Burns Kevin has over 25 years of experience protecting confidential information within private and public entities, both nationally and at the state level. Cybersecurity Strategy Phillip Aldrich Phil is a risk management executive specializing in aligning risk management strategy to support business objectives at Fortune 500 companies. Cybersecurity and Privacy Law & Policy Katherine Fick Katherine is Senior Counsel at IBM and has deep expertise on legal issues associated with cybersecurity and privacy. View More Profiles View More View Less Curriculum 10 Courses 30 Credits Program of Study Print all courses on page These listings are informational only. For a current listing of M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance courses, including closed or canceled courses, please visit the Course Information and Schedule system and use the prefix "ADCY". Sampling of Courses International Cybersecurity Cyber Investigations & Digital Forensics Privacy Law & Data Protection Managing Cyber Risk: Mobile Devices & Social Networking Establishing the Business Case & Resource Allocation Security in the Cloud; Role of Intelligence: Enabling Proactive Security Applied Research Project Cybersecurity: Risk Management & Resiliency Innovation and Technology Development Students may take up to two (2) of the four (4) online Data Analytics courses offered via the MS in Applied Economics Program at Boston College. Learning Outcomes Design, develop, and implement cybersecurity and crisis management strategies that defend against, mitigate, and ensure recovery from cyber attack. Develop and present the most cogent case for cybersecurity investment to senior executives, boards of directors, and government officials. Cultivate and promote ethical principles that complement and advance company policies and government interests. Bridge the communication gap between information technology security professionals and key business and government stakeholders. Design, develop, and implement cyber risk assessment methodologies, best practice organizational models, sufficiency standards, and risk management options. Financial Aid We know that a BC education is a worthwhile but significant investment. We're committed to helping you affordably achieve your educational goals while treating each student and their family equitably. Financial aid and payment plans may be available for students taking a minimum of six credits across a semester. Graduate Student Aid Our Faculty Start Your Career with a Built-in Network 350% growth in open cybersecurity positions from 2013–2021. Cybercrime Magazine 180K+ Alumni network that is engaged, connected, and interdisplinary Where do our students and graduates work? Head of Cyber, Risk & Security, John Hancock Retirement Plan Services Compliance Officer, State Street Director of BlockChain Research, Fidelity Special Agent, Federal Bureau of Investigation (F.B.I.) Cybersecurity Research Scientist, MIT's Sloan School of Management Cyber Sales Manager, Aberdeen Standard Investments Vice President Information Technology, State Street Associate Risk Analyst, Steward Healthcare Associate Compliance Analyst, National Grid Demand Generation Manager, QRadar Security Intelligence Platform at IBM Cyber Policy Engineer, Secure and Assured Systems Department, Draper Labs Information Security Analyst, Visa Our Students Industry-aligned ISACA Member Our students have a local chapter of ISACA, which connects students with opportunities in cybersecurity, information systems and technolog, and business management. ISACA WEBSITE Approved Provider Our program is an approved training provider for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's National Initiative for Cybersecurity Careers and Studies (NICCS). NICCS WEBSITE Business Advisory Council Our advisory board members are industry experts working in financial services, government, higher education, and other industries. View Council Members LEARN IT TODAY, USE IT TOMORROW “Being able to attain an advanced degree from a prestigious university while working full time was extremely beneficial for me, as it allowed me to learn and make a career change at the same time. I was hired to my current information security role while I was a student in the program. The knowledge I gained at Boston College greatly assists the work I do every day.” Dana Weston, Information Security Administrator at State Street Global Advisors, CPG Program '18 “The Cybersecurity Policy and Governance Program is helping me reduce the risk to our nation's critical infrastructure; the skills you learn have an immediate application in the real world.” Jarret Wright, Protective Security Advisor, Department of Homeland Security, CPG Program '19 “The program strengths expand beyond coursework, and include an engaging network of cyber, risk, and security professionals as well as tabletop exercises that strengthen a student's knowledge and acumen. The CGP program prepared me for my exciting new career redirection. ” Thom Shola, AVP RPS IT, Cyber Security Officer, John Hancock Retirement Plan Services, CPG Program '18 Apply Print Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Prerequisites: Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college/university Minimum GPA: 3.0 Please note: International applicants requiring a student visa are currently not eligible to apply for the CPG program. Deadlines Regular Decision. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Application Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Application fee $60 (to be paid as part of the online application.) If you believe you qualify for a fee waiver, please contact Kevin Powers. Please note: International applicants requiring a student visa are currently not eligible to apply for the CPG program. Start Your Application Résumé To be uploaded to your online Application Form In addition to your academic history and relevant work experience, please include any pertinent licenses currently held and any research experience or publications. Personal Statement To be uploaded to your online Application Form. In 500-750 words, describe your academic and professional goals, any experience relevant to this program, and your future plans, expectations, and aspirations. Letters of Recommendation Two letters of recommendation. Letters must be sent directly from the recommender either through the online application portal or directly to Woods College. We will not accept recommendation letters unless they are emailed directly from the recommender or mailed directly from the recommender in a sealed envelope. Please note: Letters of recommendations should be provided by Professional or Academic recommenders. Transcripts Unofficial transcripts may be uploaded to your online Application Form for purposes of application review. However, official transcript(s) must also be submitted upon acceptance/matriculation. Both undergraduate and graduate transcripts are required. Boston College Alumni and Current Students: Your BC transcript must be formally requested from the Office of Student Services and submitted to the Woods College. Woods cannot request or access transcripts independently. Transcripts should be mailed to: Boston College Woods College of Advancing Studies Admissions Office St. Mary's Hall South 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 If your academic institution provides electronic transcripts please indicate wcasadm@bc.edu as the recipient. Applicants whose Native language is not English are required to demonstrate English language proficiency, for required scores, visit our International Student page. Professional Experience Although we prefer 3-5 years of professional experience involving information technology, cybersecurity related issues, business management, communications, privacy, risk management and compliance, and/or law enforcement and national security concerns, Applicants with less than 3 years of professional experience will be considered for admission based on their academic credentials and relevant coursework and are encouraged to apply.** **Applicants who do not meet this requirement also may be considered for admission with the following condition: the completion of an approved course(s) as a non-degree student within the Cybersecurity Program, as approved by the Program Director, with a grade of B or higher. If you have any questions, please contact the Program Director at: kevin.powers@bc.edu FAQs Contact Kevin Powers with any additional questions. What are the defining characteristics of your program? Our Master of Science in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance will prepare students to bridge the communication gap between IT security professionals and key business stakeholders, and to lead, design, and frame a business case for investment to senior executives, Boards of Directors, and government officials. Taught by industry leaders and practitioners, students will learn, hands-on, to identify, assess, and manage cyber risk, and to develop and implement a proactive cybersecurity strategy to effectively defend, mitigate, and recover from a cyber attack. Our program emphasizes skills in leadership, ethics, management, critical thinking, analytic problem solving, and communication to prepare students to meet and respond to the varying issues presented by the rapidly changing cyber ecosystem. What careers are typically available to graduates of the MS program? Students will be prepared for a career as a cybersecurity professional in private industry and government. Depending on a student's educational background and career experience, possible positions include, but are not limited to: Chief Information Security Officer Cybersecurity Consultant Compliance Officer Cyber & Network Security Director Cybersecurity & Enterprise Services Director Cyber Policy Analyst Cyber Intelligence Analyst Privacy and Security In-House Counsel Privacy Analyst What is the current job outlook for students with an MS in Cybersecurity? "The New York Times reports that a stunning statistic is reverberating in cybersecurity ... there will be 3.5 million unfilled cybersecurity jobs globally by 2021" - CYBERCRIME Magazine. How many courses are required for this program? 10 courses (6 core and 4 electives) are required (30 credits total). What are the requirements for admission? Online application form Application fee $60 (to be paid as part of the online application) Bachelor’s degree from accredited college with GPA of 3.0 or higher Official transcripts from undergraduate institution Personal Statement Two letters of recommendation Resumé Although we prefer 3-5 years of professional experience involving information technology, cybersecurity related issues, business management, communications, privacy, risk management and compliance, and/or law enforcement and national security concerns, Applicants with less than 3 years of professional experience will be considered for admission based on their academic credentials and relevant coursework and are encouraged to apply.* *Applicants who do not meet this requirement also may be considered for admission with the following condition: the completion of an approved course(s) as a non-degree student within the Cybersecurity Program, as approved by the Program Director, with a grade of B or higher. If you have any questions, please contact the Program Director at kevin.powers@bc.edu What if my GPA is not a 3.0? Am I still eligible to apply for the program? Yes. We will consider your application and weigh a variety of factors (including industry experience) to determine whether we are able to offer you admission. Applicants who do not meet this requirement also may be considered for admission with the following condition: the completion of an approved course(s) as a non-degree student within the Cybersecurity Program, as approved by the Program Director, with a grade of B or higher. If you have any questions, please contact the Program Director at kevin.powers@bc.edu Do you offer admission to international applicants? International applicants requiring a student visa are currently not eligible to apply for the MSCY program. Must both letters of recommendation be from an academic source? No, we prefer that one letter of recommendation be from an academic source, and another from an employer or person in a supervisory capacity who can speak about your interests and experience. How much does the program cost? The tuition for the Academic Year 2022–2023 is $3,894 per course, three credits. Visit our Tuition & Aid page for more information. Tuition & Aid page There is also a $25 registration fee for each semester. Do you offer financial aid? All students are eligible to apply for financial aid. The Woods College also has additional scholarships for students who qualify based upon both merit and need. You are welcome to inquire further with regard to your specific circumstances and needs. Do you offer graduate course credit transfer? Students may be able to transfer up to 6 graduate credits (2 courses). Decisions on whether to accept transfer credits will depend on an assessment as to whether such course(s) to be transferred fit within the MS in Cybersecurity Policy & Governance curriculum. Can you tell me about your faculty members? All of our faculty members have advanced degrees in their specific fields of expertise and are accomplished practitioners in private industry and government. Their specializations range from cybersecurity IT, to corporate governance, risk, and compliance, to forensics and investigations. As leaders in cybersecurity, our faculty members are shaping industry standards, while working with or for Fortune 500 Companies, Federal, State, and local governments, large national law and consulting firms in the Greater Boston area, and academic departments. Each faculty member is committed to equipping students with the necessary, real-world cybersecurity knowledge and skills to prepare them to meet and respond to the varying cybersecurity issues faced by private industry and government today. What is the deadline for admission? Applications are accepted on a rolling basis for fall, spring, and summer enrollments. How long does it take to complete the degree? This is variable and is largely based on how many courses a student takes at any given time. If you take 2 courses per semester, you can complete the degree in 15 months. Can students work full-time and pursue this degree? Yes. We have designed the program to be flexible to accommodate a variety of scheduling needs. When can students enter the program? Applications are accepted on a rolling basis for fall, spring, and summer. Do you offer graduate student housing? No. Boston College does not currently offer housing for graduate students but our Office of Residential Life does have a staff member who can help you find off-campus housing. Professional Development Opportunities Executive Education Boston College Continuing Education and M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance program offers two online, non-credit certificate programs in Cybersecurity Strategy and Data Privacy: GDPR & HIPAA. For-credit Certificates Certificates may be applied towards the full MS degree program if admitted. Computer Security Cybersecurity Analytics Cybersecurity Risk Management & Strategy National Security & Global Affairs Conferences Hosted by Boston College and the FBI, the Boston Conference on Cyber Security is an annual forum for leaders in cybersecurity to come together and coordinate their efforts toward a more secure cyberspace. Woods College Events Print Inquire form Get More Information Loading... Quick Links Advising Take a Course as a Nondegree Student Why Woods? Diversity & Inclusion Events Back To Top Back To Top Woods College of Advancing Studies St. Mary's Hall South, Ground Floor Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts 02467 617-552-3900 woodscollege@bc.edu About Admission Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Community Apply Contact Give Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College