Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Controllers Office Travel Management Controllers Office Travel Management Brown University reimburses Faculty, Staff and students for business related travel. The University's policies follow the IRS guidelines. For questions related to business travel please contact [email protected]. Brown Travel Policy Visitor Travel Reimbursement Policy Travel Portal Brown's preferred travel agency is FCm Travel Solutions. FCm offers travelers the latest technology via the web or mobile to access their travel information 24/7. Solutions include FCm Portal, a complete online travel resource and FCm Mobile, for travelers to access their itineraries while on the move. Full service ticketing fee is $35. Online travel booking fee is $10. Brown University travelers who use FCm to book their travel receive the added benefit that their trip is automatically registered with the University's travel assistance company, International SOS. First time users click here to create your travel profile with FCm If you have already created a travel profile with FCm click here to access their online booking tools. For group travel or travel involving the University's direct pay arrangements through the Controller's Office, booking through an Agent at FCm will continue to be the process. FCm Travel Solutions can also be contacted at 401-262-3083 or 800-346-1938. Related Links Expense Report Business Purposes Home Staff Workday Year End Schedule General Accounting Foreign National Information Accounts Payable Travel Management Annual Spending Guidelines Currency Conversion Calculator Payroll Brown Business Center Policies Forms Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box J Providence, RI 02912 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Useful Links WebServices BrownSites Documentation