Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator About ORA Associate Vice President for Research Administration Clinical Research Contact Us Export Control Compliance Office Locations Post-Award Pre-Award Recharge/Service Centers Strategic Initiatives Who is my ORA Contact Person Forms and Rates All ORA Forms Forms by Category F&A Rates Fringe Benefit Rates Institutional Information Compliance Effort Reporting Export Control Compliance Financial Compliance University Research Foreign Influence Guidance Regulatory & Compliance Services Responses to COVID-19 Policies All ORA Policies Award Administration Clinical Research Export Control Compliance F&A Distribution Guidelines Proposal Preparation Recharge Center Policy Research Policies at UM Uniform Guidance Systems IBISResearch Clinical Research (Velos) Conflict of Interest (UDisclose) Effort Reporting (ECC) Greenphire ClinCard Human Subjects (eProst/IRB7) Research Reporting (RRS) Workday Quick Links Agency Links All About Workday Announcements Education and Training Research Road Map ORA Intranet Site ORA Mailboxes Reports and Data Share a Comment Uask FAQs About ORA Forms and Rates Compliance Policies Systems Quick Links Search About ORA Associate Vice President for Research Administration Clinical Research Contact Us Export Control Compliance Office Locations Post-Award Pre-Award Recharge/Service Centers Strategic Initiatives Who is my ORA Contact Person Forms and Rates All ORA Forms Forms by Category F&A Rates Fringe Benefit Rates Institutional Information Compliance Effort Reporting Export Control Compliance Financial Compliance University Research Foreign Influence Guidance Regulatory & Compliance Services Responses to COVID-19 Policies All ORA Policies Award Administration Clinical Research Export Control Compliance F&A Distribution Guidelines Proposal Preparation Recharge Center Policy Research Policies at UM Uniform Guidance Systems IBISResearch Clinical Research (Velos) Conflict of Interest (UDisclose) Effort Reporting (ECC) Greenphire ClinCard Human Subjects (eProst/IRB7) Research Reporting (RRS) Workday Quick Links Agency Links All About Workday Announcements Education and Training Research Road Map ORA Intranet Site ORA Mailboxes Reports and Data Share a Comment Uask FAQs OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Default Folder Grants and Contracts Effort Reporting Export Control Compliance Basics of Export Control Compliance Decision Trees Cloud Computing I-129 / DS 2019 Restricted Party Screening Export Conrol Compliance Policies and Forms Shipping and Transportation Technology Control Plans Travel and Export Compliance Frequently Asked Questions Export Control Compliance News Financial Compliance About ORA Forms and Rates Compliance Policies Systems Quick Links Home Compliance Export Control Compliance AAA Export Control Compliance Export Control Compliance The University of Miami (UM) conducts focused research to advance knowledge, enhance student learning experiences, and build its reputation in the scientific and technical communities while providing positive returns on sponsoring partners’ investments. While UM applies the principles of freedom of inquiry and open exchange of knowledge, we must also be mindful of the federal laws and regulations governing the exchange of research materials and results that are subject to export controls. On June 12, 2019, the Vice Provost for Research, Dr. John Bixby, issued an email along with an attachment outlining fundamental best practicies in our foreign relationships and activities, along with links to statements and information provided by the federal government and other national resources. This information is also available on the Office of the Vice Provost for Research website page Foreign Influence on U.S. Research. Recent communications from federal agencies have made it clear that there is increased scrutiny from our research sponsors regarding our relationships with foreign entities. The Foreign Engagement Guidelines will help to clarify UM's position on various activities relating to foreign entities. Further information may be obtained from the Office of Research Administration, the Office of the Vice Provost for Research, the Office of Faculty Affairs, and the Office of Technology Transfer. On January 3, 2013, the Vice Provost for Research, Dr. John Bixby, issued a memo on the University's Policy Regarding U.S. Export Control Laws and Regulations (PDF). This memo applies to all UM employees. In addition, on February 1, 2014, UM’s Export Control Policy went into effect and applies to all UM personnel, including administrators, faculty, staff, research associates and fellows, post-doctoral fellows, student employees, students, and volunteers in all units of the University. If you have an export compliance question, or if you need to report an export control compliance issue, please email the export control mailbox at exportcontrol@miami.edu. William J. Collins Director, Export Control Compliance Email: Wjc59@miami.edu Telephone: 305-284-9558 The Basics This page contains an introduction to Export Control Compliance. Read More Decision Trees This page contains decision trees that will help you determine if your project is compliant with export control laws and regulations and whether you are subject to the Export Administration Regulations. Read More Cloud Computing Cloud computing refers to the use and access of multiple server-based computational resources via a digital network such as the internet. Read More I-129 / DS 2019 Effective February 20, 2011, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) issued new requirements for employers sponsoring foreign nationals through the I-129 Petition for a Non-Immigrant Worker process. Read More Restricted Party Screening All research personnel (compensated or not) are to be screened against federal debarment and suspension lists through the University’s restricted party screening (RPS) system before any federal funds are released. Read More Compliance Policies and Forms You may contact the University’s Director, Export Control Compliance at exportcontrol@miami.edu with questions you may have concerning these documents. Read More Shipping and Transportation This page contains information about shipping and transportation and includes a Decision-Making Tree for Shipping/Transporting Items Out of the U.S. Read More Technology Control Plans A Technology Control Plan (TCP) is a living document that outlines the means in which confidential/controlled/sensitive information and technology will be protected. Read More Travel and Export Compliance This page is to help bring awareness to the issues concerning export control laws and regulations and other safety guidance when University faculty and staff travel internationally on University business. The University’s travel policy and other tools can be found on the University’s travel page. Read More Frequently Asked Questions This page has links to the main U.S. Government agency frequently asked questions pages. Read More Export Control Compliance News This page contains Export Control Compliance News. Read More ORA Newsletter - Issue 10 (October 2019) ORA Newsletter - Issue 9 (May 2019) ORA Newsletter - Issue 8 (February 2019) Federal Government Special Reports This page contains Federal Government Special Reports concerning foreign influence, export control compliance issues and changes to the United States Government policies and regulatory environment. Read More University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Research Administration 1320 S. Dixie Hwy, Suite 650 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3871 305-284-3871 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices