Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityAbout Marquette About Marquette Admissions Applying to Marquette Ready to apply? The links below will direct you to the online application pages for each college, school or special academic program. ADMISSIONS FOR Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Graduate business Dentistry Law SPECIAL ACADEMIC PROGRAMS Study abroad Study in Washington, D.C. Special academic programs International students Transfer students Summer studies Visit Marquette Marquette University, an urban university located in Milwaukee, Wis., provides daily visits to prospective students. Visit Marquette. Watch students tell their stories What's it like to live, study and play at Marquette University? Nobody knows better than those doing just that. Watch students tell their stories in My Marquette. Academics Academics at Marquette Marquette is routinely listed among the country's top universities, renowned for academic rigor, innovation and the achievements of its community of scholars. Colleges and schools Klingler College of Arts and Sciences College of Business Administration Diederich College of Communication School of Dentistry College of Education Opus College of Engineering Graduate School Graduate School of Management College of Health Sciences Law School College of Nursing Rankings Marquette ranks 84th in the 2020 edition of America's Best Colleges, released by U.S. News & World Report. View more rankings. Enhance your experience Whether it's through studying abroad, community service or student organizations, Marquette students take advantage of numerous programs to add to their experience. About About Marquette Marquette is a Catholic and Jesuit university located in Milwaukee, Wis., that offers more than 80 majors in its nationally and internationally recognized colleges and schools. About Marquette Tuition & costs Catholic & Jesuit Diversity at Marquette Our mission Our history Student demographics Academics Colleges & schools Majors & programs How we measure the student experience Assessment Accreditation Rankings & recognition Marquette en Español Acerca de Marquette Beyond the classroom Community Engagement Corporate Engagement Land Acknowledgment COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Libraries The libraries at Marquette The libraries at Marquette are a place where people, technology, and the printed word come together in a vibrant atmosphere that advances learning and discovery. Raynor Memorial Libraries Raynor Memorial Libraries website Library hours Raynor Memorial information desk: (414) 288-7556 Law Library Ray & Kay Eckstein Law Library website Current semester hours Building hours Student services Law information desk: (414) 288-7031 Collections and archives The Department of Special Collections and University Archives features university treasures, including the J.R.R. Tolkien Collection. University Archives Learn about the collections Search the collections Digitized collections Research Research at Marquette Research at Marquette has a strong sense of purpose and action, whether through the extension of knowledge beyond existing boundaries, the development of solutions to the world’s most pressing problems or the search for answers to life’s deepest questions. Learn more Grants, awards & presentations Books by Marquette faculty Discover research at Marquette Centers & institutes Faculty awards Office of Research & Innovation Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Marquette experts DISCOVER Marquette research Every spring, DISCOVER: Marquette University Research and Scholarship showcases some of the most interesting research happening on and off campus. Check out our interactive 2019 Discover Magazine Accessible PDF See past issues Athletics Athletics at Marquette The university's 16 varsity sports teams play in the BIG EAST Conference. Join us as we proudly say: We are Marquette! Teams Men's basketball Women's basketball Cross country Men's golf Men's lacrosse Women's lacrosse Men's soccer Women's soccer Men's tennis Women's tennis Track & field Women's volleyball Tickets The Ticket Office conducts ticketing for seven Golden Eagles' varsity sports: men’s and women’s basketball, men’s and women’s lacrosse, men’s and women’s soccer and women’s volleyball. Spirit Shop The Spirit Shop features the most popular brands of attire for Marquette fans. Shop on campus or online. Alumni Marquette alumni Ring out ahoya with fellow alumni through the Marquette University Alumni Association, an organization of nearly 110,000 members worldwide. Learn more About MUAA Class notes and news Clubs & chapters Events & reunions Alumni Newsletter Networking Join the CIRCLES business networking program Connect with the MUAA group on LinkedIn Marquette Magazine Marquette Magazine is the university's official quarterly alumni publication. View latest issue. Giving Help to enrich and expand student opportunities, support our teacher-scholars, foster innovation and transform our campus. Give online today and rise with us! Marquette.edu // About Marquette // Catholic and Jesuit The dream of Milwaukee’s first Archbishop, Rev. John Martin Henni, to establish a Catholic, Jesuit College in Milwaukee was fulfilled in 1881 when Marquette College opened its doors to students. Today Marquette University continues the tradition of Catholic, Jesuit education by inviting students to grow in mind, heart and spirit. Our goal is to graduate students who are transformed by their education and who will transform the world in which they live — who will, in a phrase, become women and men for and with others. Marquette’s focus on the four core university values of excellence, faith, leadership and service challenges students to integrate knowledge, faith and real-life choices in ways that will shape their lives. Faith and spirituality affect the way teaching, learning, research and living take place on campus. Students, faculty and staff of every religious tradition are invited to engage in conversations about faith, God, social justice, the search for truth, the desire for peace, global issues, ethics and the dignity of humanity. A Catholic and Jesuit education at Marquette is marked by the active intersection of the Gospel with culture and the intellect, as well as a deep commitment to the well-being of the whole human family. Catholic and Jesuit at Marquette Mission statement Statement on Human Dignity and Diversity Office of Mission and Ministry Society of Jesus Resources Midwest Province of the Society of Jesus Jesuits U.S.A. International Society of Jesus Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities Preamble to Marquette’s University Core of Common Studies Ex Corde Ecclesiae (On Aug. 15, 1990, Pope John Paul II issued an apostolic constitution on Catholic higher education titled Ex Corde Ecclesiae, which described the identity and mission of Catholic colleges and universities in the United States, as well as their relationship to the Catholic Church.) Learn More Ignatian spirituality Faith and spirituality are an important part of life at Marquette. As a Catholic and Jesuit institution, we provide an environment that fosters spiritual growth in people of all faiths — through religious services, community service, and personal and group retreats. Students, faculty and staff find opportunities to develop spiritually through conversations about things that matter — faith, God, social justice, a search for truth, the desire for peace. Ignatian Spiritual Resources Office of Mission and Ministry Faber Center for Ignatian Spirituality Campus Ministry The Manresa Project Marquette University mission statement Office of Mission and Ministry Marquette's mission and vision statements define who we are and what we do. The Office of Mission and Ministry promotes that awareness and helps realize our mission in every dimension of university life. Specifically, the Office of Mission and Ministry: Introduces new members of the Marquette community to the culture, values and heritage of the university; Supports faculty, staff, administrators, students, alumni/ae and trustees in their professional and personal exploration of Marquette's mission, faith and intellectual life, Jesuit higher education and Ignatian spirituality; Offers individual and group opportunities for reflection and discussion on vocation and the integration of mission with daily work; Provides mission-related written and human resources on teaching, research, administration, support service, and issues of faith and justice; Promotes, with others, the creation of a learning community, rooted in Marquette's four values of excellence, faith, leadership and service. Location Marquette University 1250 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (800) 222-6544 Key Resources español Employment Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu COVID-19 Information eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©