Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links 2101 Commonwealth Menu Main Nav Get in Touch Back Back Close About Overview Contact Share your event details McMullen Museum Location & Directions Weddings Meetings Private Events Menus Close Directory A to Z Listing Search All Departments in Auxiliary Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Weddings Weddings Look no further for the setting of your dream wedding. The stunning Roman Renaissance Revival-style building and the formal lawn surrounding 2101 Commonwealth form a beautiful backdrop for your celebration, large or small. The original works of art from the adjacent McMullen Museum of Art adorning the walls and the delicious catered food and drinks will delight your guests and make your special day even more special. Our staff looks forward to helping you plan the perfect celebration just minutes from downtown Boston. Get in touch Rates & Capacity Accolades Menus Outdoor A cascading formal lawn perfect for large tented functions A private, open space nestled on the edge of Boston Indoor Ornate rooms with works of art from the McMullen Museum of Art adorning the walls Art and love—a perfect match Rates & Capacity Accolades Menus Capacity Our largest indoor space, The Hill Family Room and its adjacent gallery are ideal for intimate weddings and can accommodate from 50–80 guests for a seated meal. Combined, the galleries of the first floor can accommodate up to 180 for a reception-style event. Outdoor weddings may be hosted on our green, expansive lawn from May–October and require the use of a tent. The lawn is suited for guest counts up to 200 for a seated meal. 2101 Commonwealth Wedding Rates Mondays–Thursdays: $2,800 Fridays: $3,900 Saturdays and Sundays of Holiday Weekends: $4,500 Sundays: $3,500 McMullen Museum Atrium Access (subject to availability): $750 Weddings are offered exclusive use of the property, with the exception of the McMullen Museum, which will be charged separately. Rental fee includes use of the venue for five hours of guest time and two hours pre-wedding for vendor deliveries and setup. All events must conclude by 11:00 p.m. Catering and rentals are priced separately. Request pricing and availability “On our wedding day, we received tons of compliments on the gorgeous venue, the delicious food, and the incredibly professional catering team. Our day was everything we hoped it would be and more!” Olivia & Peter Wedding Wire The Knot Unique Venues « » The award-winning Heights Catering is the exclusive caterer at 2101 Commonwealth. Inspired by the freshest ingredients, our chefs are ready to customize a menu for your celebration. « » Sample Wedding Menu Passed Hot Hors D'Oeuvres Lobster Mac & Cheese Fritter Tandoori Chicken Skewer, Herbed Yogurt Sauce Wild Mushroom Duxelles Profiterole Harissa Chicken Tart, Sweet Golden Raisin Chutney Mediterranean Display Pita Chips & Grilled Pita, Marinated Vegetables, Tabouleh Salad, Olive Tapenade, Seasoned Labneh, Pistachio & Sundried Tomato, Chermoula, Roasted Garlic Hummus, Carrot Hummus Plated Meal English Cucumber-Wrapped Field Greens, Crumbled Vermont Goat Cheese, Dried Cranberries, Candied Walnuts Chianti Braised Short ribs Wild mushroom Ragout, Micro Greens Seared Scallops Lobster Arugula Risotto, Pancetta Glace Eggplant, Goat Cheese & Asparagus Cannelloni Charred Tomato Vinaigrette, Petite Herb Salad Dessert Station Fresh Fruit Tarts Chocolate Drizzled Cheesecake Bites Chocolate Dipped Strawberries Petit Eclairs Assorted Mini Cookies Petit Fours Chocolate Dipped Macaroons Chocolate Dipped Short Bread Alcohol All beverage packages are priced per adult and include all bottled beers, house wines, and soft drinks. The all-inclusive package includes 4.5 hours of service, glassware, bartenders, set-up, a champagne toast, a cocktail hour, two stationary bars, and wine service during dinner. Heights Catering provides all alcohol services and does not allow alcohol to be brought in under any circumstance. We reserve the right to limit and control the amount of alcohol served. All alcohol service must end 30 minutes prior to the end of the event. Pricing is based off of 4.5 hours of service. Additional information regarding pricing and selections will be provided by the event coordinator. Reserve your date today Back To Top Back To Top Contact 2101 Commonwealth 2101 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02135 617-552-8587 Facebook Instagram Get In Touch Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College