Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University American Association of University Professors Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search About our Chapter Recent Publications Get to Know Us Bylaws of the Iowa State Chapter ISU Issues Shared Governance Academic Freedom and Tenure Issues in Higher Education Services to Chapters Planning for Retirement Why Join? Redbook Committee A Contact Us Links Iowa State University Chapter "Academic Freedom for a Free Society" From the President Welcome to the website of the AAUP Chapter at Iowa State University! Our local chapter has been active recently in addressing how budget cuts and policy planning affect faculty members, the rights of faculty as members of the professoriate, and, as always, academic freedom and due process. Of particular concern to the local Chapter has been the need to maintain and strengthen shared governance between faculty and various levels of the academic administration. This goal of the ISU Chapter of AAUP is achieved by working in close collaboration with the leadership of the Faculty Senate, as well as with academic administrators to ensure that the faculty voice is heard and listened to. -Dr. Heimir Geirsson, Professor and President of the ISU Chapter About the AAUP The AAUP is an organization focused on preserving the faculty voice within academia, advancing academic freedom and shared governance, and establishing a standard of fundamentals in professional values and higher education. In the pursuit of these goals, the AAUP seeks to ensure the contribution of higher education, toward the common good. The national site contains information concerning work of the organization as a whole. This site will focus primarily on the involvement and agenda of the Iowa State University Chapter. AAUP COVID-19 resources News and Upcoming Events AAUP Clock Extension for Term Faculty Resolution (PDF, 51KB) October 2020 Statement on Deportation of International Students (PDF, 72KB) Summer 2020 Statement Regarding the Appointment of J. Bruce Harreld as President of the University of Iowa September, 2015 Read more (PDF, 112KB) Letters of Non-Renewal to NTE Faculty April, 2015 The Faculty Senate is considering changing the timing of non-renewal notices to NTE faculty. What does the AAUP recommend? Read more (PDF, 186KB) Annual meeting (PDF, 28KB) April 3, 2013 Collegiality Statement March, 2012 Does collegiality call for agreement and "one voice?" Read more (PDF, 78KB) Professors Grade Gartner's Analysis August, 2011 Former regent Gartner published a letter in the Des Moines Register where he, among other things, attacked tenure and shared governance. The members of the ISU AAUP Executive Board replied. Read more (PDF, 12KB) Dark Clouds in Blue Sky December, 2010 The formation of the Blue Sky Taskforce in the LAS College raises questions about the role of shared governance in a reorganization of the college. Read more (PDF, 64KB) New Budget Model calls for Changes in Governance November, 2010 Many of the decisions that were previously made at the Provost level will now be made at the college level. What does this mean for shared governance? Read more (PDF, 38KB) American Association of University Professors isu.aaup@gmail.com Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information