Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY DENTISTRY DENTAL SELECTIVE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 DENTSL 550 Rural/Underserved Opportunities Program Community Rotations (6) Students gain an early clinical patient care experience with oversight from School of Dentistry affiliate faculty at calibrated community health clinics in Washington and Montana. They work with dentists and dental hygienists, along with dental assistants and staff who perform the support functions necessary to operating a dental clinic. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTSL 550 DENTSL 552 Patient Care Experience Selective (6) Exposes students to an early clinical patient care experience working side-by-side with advanced dental students, and along with staff who perform the support functions necessary to operating a dental practice. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTSL 552 DENTSL 651 Directed Studies in General Dentistry 1 (2) Additional summer quarter study and/or clinic time, instruction, and/or mentoring in the practice and/or theory of general dental practice for the student who wishes or requires an individualized augmentation to the 4th year curriculum. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTSL 651 DENTSL 652 Advanced Global Oral Health: From Theory to Action - Selective (1) Student get hands-on experiences in current global oral health projects, and are introduced to partners in international health care systems with the goal of learning about social, political, cultural, behavioral, and economic factors influencing dental public health in developing countries. Prerequisite: DENTEL 520; and either enrolled in the 4th year of the Doctor of Dental Surgery program, or enrolled in either a Public Health or Global Health program at UW. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTSL 652 DENTSL 655 Peer Mentor Interdisciplinary - Selective (1, max. 12) Senior dental students participate as Peer Mentors for 1st and 2nd year dental students in various pre-clinical Interdisciplinary courses. This experience builds upon, enhances and refines the students in Peer Mentoring. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: DENTSL 655 DENTSL 661 Directed Studies in General Dentistry 2 (2) Provides additional autumn quarter study and/or clinic time, instruction, and/or mentoring in the practice and/or theory of general dental practice to the student who wishes or requires an individualized augmentation to the 4th year curriculum. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTSL 661 DENTSL 662 Advanced Implant Dentistry 2 (1) Offers opportunities for predoctoral students to gain additional knowledge to manage more advanced and complex implant cases. Includes treatment planning and managing the surgical and restorative part of the treatment under supervision of faculty from the three departments. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTSL 662 DENTSL 665 Dental Photography - Selective (1) Provides students with sufficient knowledge and experience to select and use correct photographic equipment for photographing patients (facial and intraoral views), casts, instruments, x-rays, charts, and objects. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AS. View course details in MyPlan: DENTSL 665 DENTSL 671 Directed Studies in General Dentistry 3 (2) Provides additional winter quarter study and/or clinic time, instruction, and/or mentoring in the practice and/or theory of general dental practice to the student who wishes or requires an individualized augmentation to the 4th year curriculum. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTSL 671 DENTSL 672 Advanced Implant Dentistry 3 (1) Offers opportunities for predoctoral students to gain additional knowledge to manage more advanced and complex implant cases. Includes treatment planning and managing the surgical and restorative part of the treatment under supervision of faculty from the three departments. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTSL 672 DENTSL 681 Directed Studies in General Dentistry 4 (2) Provides additional spring quarter study and/or clinic time, instruction, and/or mentoring in the practice and/or theory of general dental practice for the student who wishes or requires an individualized augmentation to the 4th year curriculum. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTSL 681 DENTSL 682 Advanced Implant Dentistry 4 (1) Offers opportunities for predoctoral students to gain additional knowledge to manage more advanced and complex implant cases. Includes treatment planning and managing the surgical and restorative part of the treatment under supervision of faculty from the three departments. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTSL 682 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022