Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of Communications & Marketing Menu Search TTU Office of Communications & Marketing Emergency Communications Center Coronavirus Information Coronavirus Update: March 26, 2020 Dear Texas Tech University Community, As we deal with the effects of COVID, there is no greater priority than the health and safety of our Texas Tech family, our local community, our state, and the nation. We must also begin to plan for the financial impacts of the coronavirus. I am deeply grateful for the tremendous effort that has been made by faculty and staff in transitioning to the online delivery of instruction. And now, I must also ask for your continued cooperation and support as we implement plans to reimburse students and cover payroll costs for exempt and hourly employees, at the same time that we sustain revenue losses, particularly in our auxiliary operations. In the coming weeks, we will review many aspects of our budgetary process, but at this time, we need to revise our hiring practices. We will communicate a more detailed procedure to Deans, Chairs, and supervisors, but I want to share the main aspects of our plan with everyone. The hiring process may continue for searches that have been certified by the Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion or have selected a final pool of candidates that have been interviewed or have scheduled virtual interviews. For all other vacant positions, we will initiate a central review of hiring requests. Our priority in approving new hires will be to maximize funding resources that support our academic enterprise. A committee consisting of Chief Financial Officer Noel Sloan, Chief of Staff Grace Hernandez, and Provost Michael Galyean will review all requests for hires to determine whether the position is critical at this time. We will share additional instructions related to the process in the near future that will describe how a request should be submitted and coordinated at the college level. The opportunity to appear before the committee to make a case for a proposed hire will be provided. As we deal with budgetary challenges that will likely affect us for months to come, we must all work toward responsibly stewarding our funds. I ask everyone with budget oversight to consider other cost-saving measures, with a focus on travel, meals, and entertainment. I appreciate your understanding and continued cooperation. Thank you for all you do on behalf of Texas Tech University. Sincerely, Lawrence Schovanec President Texas Tech University Office of Communications & Marketing Address 2625 Memorial Circle, Administration 212, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.2136 Email webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 26, 2020 9:04 AM Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Back Identity Guidelines Official Logos Communications Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back News Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Texas Tech Today Monthly e-Newsletter Event Announcements A List Emergency Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Emergency Communications Center General Emergency Procedures Social Media Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back YouTube Facebook Twitter Foursquare Flickr LinkedIn Wikipedia Experts Guide Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Experts Guide Back Experts Guide About Office of Communications & Marketing Back Staff Work With Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index