Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022 Menu Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues Baylor>Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022>Alumni News & Notes>Alumni-elected Regent Selection>Barbara Calhoun Cargill Barbara Calhoun Cargill B.S.Ed. ’82, Conroe, Texas Career Experience Barbara Calhoun Cargill served for 16 years on the Texas State Board of Education (SBOE), retiring from public office in December 2020. She is the founder and director of Wonders of the Woodlands (WOW) Science Camp, a faith-based program established in 1994 that has taught character education and hands-on science to thousands of children. Cargill earned a Master of Science in Education from Texas Woman’s University in 1992. She is president of Cargill Consulting & Training LLC and is a Texas Early Childhood Registered Trainer. Board Experience Cargill was elected to four terms on the Texas SBOE, during which time Gov. Rick Perry twice appointed her as chair of the board (2011-2015). Fellow SBOE members elected her to chair four other committees during her tenure. She currently is on the boards of The Woodlands [Texas] Methodist School, Houston’s Interlinc Family Foundation and Village Church’s Sangre de Cristo Lodge in New Mexico. Awards and Honors In 2020, Gov. Greg Abbott conferred upon Cargill the Commission of the Yellow Rose of Texas, the highest award bestowed to women by the Texas governor for exceptional community service. Recognized as a Scholar by the American Enterprise Institute’s Conservative Education Reform Network in 2021, Cargill has also received the “Thanks to Teachers” National Excellence Award, the Exceptional Support of Americanism Award from Daughters of the American Revolution and the Lifetime Faithful Servant Award given by Texas Values. Baylor Philanthropy In 2021, Cargill and her husband Terry, B.B.A. ’82, funded the Barbara and Terry Cargill Endowed Scholarship, which supports students in Baylor’s School of Education. She has also sponsored the Montgomery County [Texas] Baylor Club and was a member of the Baylor Mom’s Club as the proud mother of a third-generation Baylor Bear. Church/Christian Mission Affiliations Cargill and her husband are members of The Wood- lands Methodist Church, where she directs the outreach ministry WOW Science Camp. She previously was a Sunday school teacher and youth group assistant, and she currently volunteers with food distribution, senior meal delivery and book collection ministries for needy children. Since 2011, Cargill has served on the gala committee for Habitat for Humanity Montgomery County. The Candidates Barbara Calhoun Cargill B.S.Ed. ’82, Conroe, Texas Ryan D. Pratt B.B.A. ’97, Houston, Texas Mark M. Shelton B.S. ’79, Fort Worth, Texas For a complete guide to the nomination and election process, visit alumniregents.web.baylor.edu Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues