Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Physics and Materials Science About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Resources News SPS Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate Studies Prospective Students Admission RequirementsFour Year Plan Current Students Program RequirementsCourse RequirementsProgram TimelineSecond Major in PhysicsContact your Advisor Scholarships Financial Aid Permit Take Action Apply Now Contact Us Lois McGlothlin Donaldson Endowed Lecture Seminars & Events Follow Us Online Facebook Home Department of Physics and Materials Science Undergraduate Studies Scholarships Undergraduate Scholarships The Department of Physics and Materials Science has scholarships available for undergraduate students based on need and academic performance. Please contact the Undergraduate Advisor for information on applying for the department scholarships listed below. Additionally, a list of all the scholarships at the University of Memphis can be found at the Tiger Scholarship Manager. More scholarship information can be found at the University of Memphis Scholarships. Dr. Albert H. Woollett Scholarship Eligibility Students who meet the minimum requirements outlined below are eligible to apply for this scholarship. The student must: Be a physics major at the University of Memphis; Maintain a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of at least 3.0; Maintain full-time status; and Financial aid shall be considered. Additionally, the student must: Have completed at least 12 hours of coursework in physics; and Must not have received a grade below a B in any Physics course taken in the last three years. Preference will be given to students who have completed a greater number of semester hours in Physics, a higher GPA in Physics, a greater financial need, made a substantial contribution in undergraduate research, and contributed strongly to the activities of the SPS chapter The recipient may retain the scholarship until graduation if the eligibility requirements are maintained subject to the approval of the selection committee. The scholarship may not be retained for more than eight semesters (fall and spring). Apply To apply for the scholarship, please visit the Dr. Albert H. Woollett Scholarship entry at the Tiger Scholarship Manager. Donate Please follow these steps to make a donation to the Albert Woollett Memorial Scholarship. Click on the link provided below. Enter gift amount and press enter Choose "I would like to give to a fund not listed here" (enter) Write "Woollett Scholarship" (enter) Proceed with the remaining questions. Dr. Robert R. Marchini Scholarship in Physics Dr. Robert Marchini received the Distinguished Teaching Award in 2008. Professor Robert "Bob" Marchini has been teaching at the UofM since 1967. He also served as the undergraduate advisor and laboratory coordinator in his department and advisor for both Sigma Pi Sigma and the Society of Physics Students. He is well known for his "Magic of Physics" demonstrations, in which he uses an assortment of magician-like tricks to illustrate principles of physics. Follow this link for more information or to donate to Dr. Robert R. Marchini Scholarship in Physics. Eligibility Award shall be given to: Deserving and qualified students at the University of Memphis majoring in physics who have completed the Intro to Physics course Minimum GPA of 2.75 Preference shall be given to high-ability students with a demonstrated financial need. Each scholarship shall be awarded for one academic year. Recipients may reapply in subsequent years provided they maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.75 and participate in fifteen (15) hours of service for the Department of Physics and Materials Science each semester. Award recipients, the number of awards, and the amount of each award shall be determined by a committee appointed by the Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, which will include Dr. Robert R. Marchini as long as he is willing and able to participate. The selection process shall be coordinated through the UofM Scholarship Office. Apply To apply for the scholarship, please visit the Dr. Robert R. Marchini Scholarship in Physics entry at the Tiger Scholarship Manager. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/14/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.