Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Students Menu About Baylor Academics Academic Records Information College of Arts & Sciences Commencement Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Exam Schedule George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Graduate School Catalog Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Libraries Louise Herrington School of Nursing More Academics Music, School of Office of the Registrar Professional Education Research Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science Undergraduate Catalog Around Campus Baylor University Shuttle Campus Living and Learning Campus Map Dining Services Diversity & Inclusion Health Services Lariat Newspaper Off-Campus Housing Parking & Transportation Student Life Center (SLC) Student Union (SUB, BDSC) Waco Zipcar Online Tools Activate Bear ID/Change Password AirBear Wireless Network Baylor Box Service BaylorConnect Bearweb Canvas E-mail/Outlook Web Access Home Software (Including Anti-Virus Software) Housing Technology Information Technology Services Navigate/Student Success Collaborative (SSC) PawPrints Schedule of Classes Student Technology Services Technology Purchasing Policies & Procedures Academic Integrity and Honor Code EthicsPoint: Anonymous Reporting Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Student Conduct Administration Student Policies and Procedures Voting Information/Voter Registration Safety BU Campus Guardian Clery Act Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Department of Public Safety Emergency Planning and Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX University Compliance and Risk Services Student Financial Services Financial Aid Pay Your Bill Payroll Office Student Employment Student Financial Literacy Student Involvement Baylor Athletics BaylorConnect Campus Recreation Gameday for Students Multicultural Affairs New Student Programs Spiritual Life Student Activities Student Government Student Organizations Student Tickets Portal Student Services Baylor Summer Counseling Center International Student and Scholar Services Ombuds to Students Paul L. Foster Success Center Registering for Classes Student Disability Services Student-Athlete Center for Excellence Study Abroad and Exchange Programs Writing Center Complete List of Links Students News News Categories Recent News Featured Athletics News Clips Baylor Proud News from Baylor What's New BU The To-Do List All News Archives May 30 2022 Baseball Coach Steve Rodriguez Announces Resignation WACO, Texas – Baylor Head Baseball Coach Steve Rodriguez announced today that he is stepping down from his position, after leading the Bears for seven seasons. His 197-146 record marks the third-most wins of any head coach in program history. May 28 2022 No. 8/8 T&F: West Prelims Conclude with 10 National Entries FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. – Baylor track and field women wrapped up the NCAA West Preliminaries at the John McDonnell Field on Saturday, qualifying both relays and eight individuals to the NCAA Championships in Eugene, Ore., in two weeks. May 27 2022 No. 8/8 T&F: Six Entries Punch Tickets to Eugene FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. – Baylor track and field men wrapped up the NCAA West Preliminaries at the John McDonnell Field on Friday, qualifying four individuals and two relays to the NCAA Championships in Oregon next month. May 27 2022 Not ‘Can we?,’ but ‘Should we?’: Baylor grad’s company aims to center ethics in technology Improvements in technology are awesome. They make it possible for a car to drive itself. Robots can answer complex questions in a flash. They can even save lives. However, as tech evolves, it’s easy for human connections to get left behind. To combat this, Baylor grad Olivia Gambelin (BA ’17) hatched an idea. Gambelin grew […] May 26 2022 No. 8/8 T&F Sends Two More to Eugene on Day Two of West Preliminaries FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. – Baylor track and field had 11 total student-athletes advance to the next rounds in Day Two of the NCAA West Preliminaries, with 9 to the quarterfinals and 2 with a ticket punched to Hayward Stadium in Eugene. May 26 2022 Presidential Perspective - May 26, 2022 Grief continues to fill my heart today. Like everyone in the Baylor Family, my heart broke on Tuesday as we learned about the tragic mass shooting at Robb Elementary School in Uvalde — the deadliest school shooting in Texas history. May 26 2022 MT’s Bass & Lah Finish in Doubles Quarterfinals Baylor men's tennis' Finn Bass and Sven Lah finish their season in the quarterfinals of the NCAA doubles competition, falling to a South Carolina duo at the Khan Outdoor Tennis Complex on Thursday afternoon. May 26 2022 SB Wins National Invitational Softball Championship Over UNLV, 4-0 THE RUNDOWN May 26 2022 BSB's Run at Big 12 Championship Ends With 11-1 Loss to OSU THE RUNDOWN May 26 2022 WGOLF’s Kaur Named WGCA All-American WACO, Texas – Baylor's Gurleen Kaur added another accomplishment to her ever-growing list when she was named a second-team All-American by the Women's Golf Coaches Association on Thursday. May 26 2022 Baylor students again circle the globe in service through Baylor Missions What bonds Baylor musicians in Scotland with business students in Zambia, or student-athletes in Louisiana with nurses in India? They’re all part of this summer’s Baylor Missions trips, which are again deploying abroad after a two-year hiatus due to COVID-19. Already, Baylor students have completed a handful of domestic summer mission trips, and soon teams […] May 26 2022 Football Kick Times and Schedule Adjustments Announced WACO, Texas – Baylor football kickoff times and television networks for the first three weeks of the 2022 season, along with a schedule adjustment later in the year, were announced Thursday by the Big 12 Conference. May 26 2022 WGOLF Adds ETSU Transfer Hasegawa for Fall 2022 WACO, Texas – Baylor women's golf has signed East Tennessee State's Sera Hasegawa to a Financial Aid Contract, head coach Jay Goble announced Thursday. She will join the Bears with four years of eligibility beginning in 2022-23. May 25 2022 No. 8/8 T&F’s Prosper Nnamdi Sets Nigerian Record in Day One of NCAA West Prelims FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. – Baylor track and field opened up the first day of the NCAA West Preliminaries at the John McDonnell Field on Wednesday. Two Baylor competitors punched their tickets to nationals, while eight others advanced to Friday's quarterfinal rounds. May 25 2022 WT All-American Duo Finishes Baylor Career in Round of 16 THE RUNDOWN May 25 2022 MT’s Bass & Lah Advance to NCAA Elite Eight Baylor men's tennis' Finn Bass and Sven Lah advanced to the elite eight of the NCAA doubles competition with their win over a Cornell duo on Wednesday at the Khan Outdoor Tennis Complex. May 25 2022 SB Walks Off Kansas, 5-4 THE RUNDOWN May 25 2022 No. 8 Seed BSB Held in Check by No. 1 Seed TCU, 4-2 THE RUNDOWN May 24 2022 SB Sets Records in Dominate Win Over North Alabama, 18-8 THE RUNDOWN May 24 2022 WT’s Herrero, Krywoj Advance to Round of 16 THE RUNDOWN Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Baylor Academics Academic Records Information College of Arts & Sciences Commencement Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Exam Schedule George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Graduate School Catalog Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Libraries Louise Herrington School of Nursing More Academics Music, School of Office of the Registrar Professional Education Research Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science Undergraduate Catalog Around Campus Baylor University Shuttle Campus Living and Learning Campus Map Dining Services Diversity & Inclusion Health Services Lariat Newspaper Off-Campus Housing Parking & Transportation Student Life Center (SLC) Student Union (SUB, BDSC) Waco Zipcar Online Tools Activate Bear ID/Change Password AirBear Wireless Network Baylor Box Service BaylorConnect Bearweb Canvas E-mail/Outlook Web Access Home Software (Including Anti-Virus Software) Housing Technology Information Technology Services Navigate/Student Success Collaborative (SSC) PawPrints Schedule of Classes Student Technology Services Technology Purchasing Policies & Procedures Academic Integrity and Honor Code EthicsPoint: Anonymous Reporting Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Student Conduct Administration Student Policies and Procedures Voting Information/Voter Registration Safety BU Campus Guardian Clery Act Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Department of Public Safety Emergency Planning and Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX University Compliance and Risk Services Student Financial Services Financial Aid Pay Your Bill Payroll Office Student Employment Student Financial Literacy Student Involvement Baylor Athletics BaylorConnect Campus Recreation Gameday for Students Multicultural Affairs New Student Programs Spiritual Life Student Activities Student Government Student Organizations Student Tickets Portal Student Services Baylor Summer Counseling Center International Student and Scholar Services Ombuds to Students Paul L. Foster Success Center Registering for Classes Student Disability Services Student-Athlete Center for Excellence Study Abroad and Exchange Programs Writing Center Complete List of Links