Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » About UHP » Contact Us » Jason Autry Set Navigation title in component Inclusive Excellence Competencies Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us Jason Autry Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Jason Autry Assistant Director, University Honors Program Contact information 513.556.6255 jason.autry@uc.edu Education M.A. Educational Studies focusing in Peace Education, University of Cincinnati B.A. English Literature, University of Cincinnati Certificates: Creative Writing, Fiction; Leadership A little about me... Hello! I’m excited to work for my alma mater here at the University of Cincinnati and especially in an office that was so transformative for my own undergraduate experience. I've enjoyed working with honors students for the last eight years as professional, because their creativity, drive, and curiosity is infectious. I sometimes think they teach me more than I could ever teach them. As an Assistant Director for the University Honors Program, I have the pleasure of working with some of the brightest and most driven students from around the world. My primary responsibilities are admissions, communications, technology, and assessment. I manage the program's website and social media presnece. I’m a native son of the great state of Ohio, so friends, family, and an honest day's work are important to me. i'm currently pursing an MBA from the Lindner College of Business. I'm extremely passionate about games of all sorts; from sports to video and board games, I love them all. I study analog games and gamification of education. I also dabble in game development and fantasy fiction writing. Ask me about... To throw a Frisbee Being a first-generation college student Technology and games Social justice and peace education Getting involved with UHP Ambassadors as well as our media and website Advice for students Learn that feedback is a source of love. Fear silence. Those who are silent on your work either lack the expertise to provide feedback or have little commitment to see you grow. Those who give feedback will celebrate your success just as readily as they will challenge you when there is room to grow. Top 5 books every college student should read Blink: The Power of Thinking Without Thinking by Malcolm Gladwell One Hundred years of Solitude by Gabriel Garcia Marquez The Power of Habit by Charles Duhigg The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People by Stephen Covey Grit: The Power of Passion and Perseverance by Angela Duckworth University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top