Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs American Studies A.M. school Graduate School department American Studies Inquire All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Financial Aid Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The American Studies master's degree program provides exposure to a wide range of social, cultural and political phenomena in the U.S., past and present. The program fosters critical thinking, an awareness of the connection between social justice and scholarship, and public engagement. The American Studies master's degree program is an eight–course sequence of study with flexible residence requirements. A standard program encompasses two semesters of four courses each. Notably, recent course offerings have included transnational classroom experiences, joining students based in Providence via the Internet to students outside the US, an experience in keeping with the transnational framework of the program. A required seminar — "Introduction to Interdisciplinary American Studies" — also adopts a transnational frame. The program encourages participation from international students but also accepts U.S. applicants. Master's recipients in American Studies have gone on to doctoral studies in American Studies, English and History, professional programs in journalism and public affairs, and employment and internships in advertising, publishing, government service and teaching. The Department of American Studies at Brown was founded in 1945 as a collaborative as well as interdisciplinary enterprise. The first catalog statement explained that its purpose was "to provide the student with a more comprehensive and better unified knowledge of American Civilization... than would be possible within the limits of a single department." This rigorous interdisciplinary approach still informs the program's goal of reaching a better understanding of the diverse cultures, groups, and experiences that make up American Studies. In recent years, the Department has expanded its commitment to global and international contextualization, public engagement, and new media understandings. Admission Information Inquire Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required TOEFL/IELTS: Required for any non-native English speaker who does not have a degree from an institution where English is the sole language of instruction or from a University in the following countries: Australia, Bahamas, Botswana, Cameroon, Canada (except Quebec), Ethiopia, Ghana, Ireland, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, New Zealand, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Sierra Leone, Swaziland, Tanzania, Gambia, Uganda, United Kingdom (England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales), West Indies, Zambia). The TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition and the IELTS Indicator exam are accepted. Students from mainland China may submit the TOEFL ITP Plus exam. Letters of Recommendations: Three (3) recommendations required Writing Sample: Required (short sample of 10–20 pages in area of interest) Personal Statement: 1000-1500 word personal statement that gives your reasons to pursue graduate work in the field of your study. The statement should include examples of your past work in your chosen field, your plans for study at Brown, issues and problems you'd like to address in your field and your professional goals. Resume/CV: Required Additional Requirements: If you have any questions regarding the application process for this program, please email masters_admissions@brown.edu. Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline February 1, 2022 5th Year Deadline May 1, 2022 Financial Aid Limited awards customarily cover health insurance and other mandatory student fees. Tuition and Scholarships Tuition: $7,618 per course; 8 courses over 1 year Scholarships: Unavailable Completion Requirements Eight courses which include at least two 2000-level seminars, one of which must be AMST 2020. Students may take courses in any department or program in consultation with the Graduate Advisor. The program features course-work and a final ePortfolio. Students have the opportunity for community engagement or work with a local cultural or political organization as part of their course of study. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Matt Guterl matthew_guterl@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Matt Guterl matthew_guterl@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of American Studies Mailing Address Brown University Box 1892 AmCivgrad_Advisor@Brown.edu 401-863-2896 Visit the Department of American Studies Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search American Studies Open details for American Studies Bookmark this Page