Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift MENU Faculty Affairs COVID-19 Pandemic Impact on TPR and Faculty Evaluations The Provost’s Office assures faculty that their huge pivot to online learning during these challenging times is understood as difficult and straining. University leadership is working hard to find ways to recognize and document how COVID-19-related directives shape capabilities for these efforts while juggling multiple professional and personal responsibilities. For more information, please visit the Faculty Affairs and COVID-19 webpage. What is Clemson Faculty Affairs? The success of our University is closely connected to the remarkable quality of its faculty. Our office provides comprehensive support for Clemson faculty during all stages of their academic career in the areas of teaching, research, personnel matters, professional development, and service endeavors. Connect with Clemson Faculty Affairs Subscribe to Clemson Faculty Affairs' email list and canvas workgroup to stay up to date on important news and initiatives. Share Information with Clemson's Department Chairs Send a notice to Faculty Affairs to present to Clemson's Department Chairs, Deans, and Associate Deans at the monthly Organization Academic Department Chairs (OADC) meeting. Faculty Recruitment The Provost Office supports the recruitment and hiring of outstanding faculty members and senior administrators. Promotion, Tenure and Faculty Evaluation The Provost Office oversees the designation of emeritus status and the approval of research leaves, and assists in the resolution of faculty grievances. Sabbatical/Leave The Sabbatical Leave program provides an opportunity for Clemson University faculty to continue their professional development. Recognition and Awards The University recognizes significant contributions by faculty members through a variety of awards. Leadership Development The Provost Office supports the ongoing development of academic leaders at Clemson University. Policies Affecting Faculty The Provost Office provides resources to aid faculty with the information and forms needed to support them in their instruction, research, and development. Work/Life Policies The University has developed policies to assist faculty with the challenges of balancing professional and personal life. Faculty and Staff Achievements Frank A. Burtner award winner goes above and beyond for students Land-Grant Press publications provide vital knowledge from Clemson Cooperative Extension program areas Clemson program earns ‘A+’ ranking for preparing elementary math teachers Nursing professor tapped to CBSHS faculty fellowship advancing inclusive excellence Important Resources Faculty Manual FAS Website eForm 3 eTPR Notebook Dates and Deadlines Calendar Faculty/Staff Webpage Tigers Advance Academic Affairs and Provost Home ClemsonForward Academic Units Leadership Faculty Affairs Faculty Recruitment New Faculty Hires Promotion, Tenure and Faculty Evaluation Tenure and Promotion Honorees Dates and Deadlines Sabbatical Recognition and Awards Leadership Development Policies Affecting Faculty Work/Life Policies Resources Faculty Affairs and COVID-19 Family Support and Accommodation Plan New Faculty Orientation Tenure and Promotion Honorees Contact Us Related Links Academic Calendar Research at Clemson Faculty Manual Annual Report Human Resources Information Clemson University Students with Service Animals In Training Acknowledgement Form Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram