Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home Diversity and Community Engagement The Office of Graduate Student Affairs (GSA) strives to create and strengthen a diverse, inclusive, respectful, and intellectually challenging environment that embraces difference. GSA is responsible for assisting in the development of programs, projects and policies, which will enhance diversity, inclusion, and belonging with emphasis on issues related to, but not limited to, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation and disability at SEAS. Asking for and using correct pronouns is a way to respect those around you and create an inclusive environment for people of all genders and gender expressions. Help create a more inclusive Columbia community by asking for and sharing your own pronouns in meetings, on name tags, in your email signature and in chat. Columbia Engineering Resources Student Organizations Graduate Student Affairs Engineering Wellness University Resources The Graduate Initiative for Inclusion and Engagement (University Life) Resources for Promoting LGBTQ+ Inclusion (University Life) Religious Community at Columbia (University Life) Diversity Events Learn about our annual events, aimed at promoting a more inclusive and diverse student body. MORE Student Life At Columbia Engineering, our student resources are aimed at supporting students of all backgrounds to ensure an enhanced experience. MORE Bridge to PhD Program Post-baccalaureates who are interested in enhancing their graduate school applications may explore the Bridge to Ph.D. program. The Bridge program consists of research and coursework, aligned with students' interests, to help them prepare for a doctoral degree. For more information, please visit their website. MORE DACA and Undocumented Students The Columbia University community has several initiatives and resources to support DACA and undocumented students. Please visit the website for the Office of University Life to learn more. Pronouns In Use Pronouns are how a person wants to be referred to in the third person. We share our pronouns with others and ask them to do the same so that we do not assume how people want to be referred to in the third person, thus avoiding instances of misgendering. By respecting others’ pronouns, you recognize their sense of self and affirm the humanity of all members of our SEAS community. Examples of pronouns include, but are not limited to: he/him/his, she/her/hers, they/them/theirs, ze/hir/hirs, and other gender neutral pronouns. For more information, visit the Office of University Life's Frequently Asked Questions: What Students Should Know About Pronouns in Use Student Spotlight Current and former students describe how they came to choose Columbia Engineering, life as a New York City student, their student experience, their purpose driven approach to advancing diversity in STEM, and more. Learn More about Michael ENGINEERING WELLNESS The Columbia Engineering Community recognizes student health and well-being as a foundation for student formation, reflecting the integration of intellectual, spiritual, and social development. Community Well-Being Resources The Food Pantry at Columbia Open to any student within any of the 20 Schools within Columbia University – undergraduate or graduate, full-time or part-time. Any student who has any level of food insecurity can reach out to the Food Pantry to get a disbursement catered to your individual dietary and household needs. All students can feel rest assured that any information they provide to us will remain within the Food Pantry and will not be shared with anyone outside of the Food Pantry without their explicit permission. Students are not permitted to misuse this resource. For More Information HAVE AN EMERGENCY? Call Public Safety at (212) 854-5555 Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University