Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process The Financial Aid Process Texas Residency Rules for State Aid Dates & Deadlines Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Financial Aid Status Disbursement of Aid Appeals Due to Special Circumstances Helpful hints for completing the FAFSA and CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE Verification Process Are you Dependent or Independent? How to Accept/Decline Financial Aid Refunds Costs Types of Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Graduate Financial Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs SMU Funded Financial Aid Programs Summer and May Inter-Term Financial Aid Options for Undergraduate Students Veteran Benefits How Enrollment Level Affects Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Process Forms Library Financial Aid Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us ☰ Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process Verification Process Verification Process Verification is the process used by schools to verify that the information submitted on the FAFSA is true and accurate when matched with various source documents. For example, if a student submits the FAFSA and answered “yes” to having earned a Bachelors degree, then a school must verify that there is a college transcript on file from the school that awarded the Bachelor’s Degree. Another example would be confirming the Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) amount reported on the FAFSA matches the AGI on the IRS tax record. Schools are not only required to verify the accuracy of FAFSA data, but also resolve any and all information discrepancies. Each year, the U.S. Department of Education selects a certain percentage of an institution's students for the verification process. In addition, student’s may be institutionally selected for verification if or when there is conflicting data between two data sources. In order to reduce application errors and discrepancies, student and their families now have the ability to import tax data directly from the IRS by using the IRS Data Retrieval tool (DRT). Using the DRT when completing the FAFSA application significantly reduces an applicant's chance of being selected for verification, and also reduces the delay in awarding and disbursing financial aid to a student's account. Verification Process Notification of Selection IRS Data Retrieval Tool Using the Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Transcripts Frequently Asked Questions Identity Theft and Non-IRS Filers Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share