Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell University of Washington Bothell Future Students Admissions Application Dates & Deadlines Campus Visit Degree Programs For Parents Orientation First Year Students Graduate International Post-Baccalaureate Returning Transfer Resources Financial Aid Food Services Housing Transportation Tuition I want to... Attend Orientation Request Information Visit UW Bothell Apply to UW Bothell » Current Students Resources Campus Safety Canvas Catalyst Financial Aid and Scholarships Food Services Registration Time Schedule Tuition Academics Academic Calendar Community-Based Learning Degrees Quantitative Skills Center Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Writing and Communication Center Student Affairs Careers Counseling Center for International Education DACA Resources Disability Resources Veterans Student Parents ASUWB Clubs and Organizations Orientation Recreation Student Affairs My UW » Schools & Programs Academic Affairs Faculty Support Institutional Research & Analysis Division of Academic Affairs Sponsored Research Schools & Programs Business Educational Studies Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Nursing & Health Studies Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) First Year & Pre-Major Program Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Safety Directory General Faculty Organization (GFO) General Staff Organization (GSO) IT MyUW Campus Services Canvas Food Service Room Reservations Commuter Services UW Alert Work Request Working at UW Bothell Accessibility Benefits Human Resources Integrated Service Center Payroll Training and Development Work/Life Balance How do I ... Apply for a Job Contact Campus Safety Find University Forms Get a Husky Card Plan an Event Alumni & Donors Get Involved Advancement and External Relations Alumni Council Distinguished Alumni Award Give to UW Bothell Update your Contact Information UW Alumni Association Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Alumni News Alumni Events Annual Husky 5K Bothell Block Party UW Bothell News UW Bothell Magazine Resources Alumni Services Career Center FAQ's Lifelong Learning UW Bothell Advisory Board How do I ... Find Classmates Get my Transcript Get Tickets to Husky Sports What are you Doing now? Give to UW Bothell » Discover UW Bothell Getting to Campus Building Hours Campus Map Directions Parking Transportation About UW Bothell About Leadership Chancellor Kristin Esterberg Fast Facts Mission, Vision & Core Values News & Events 2010-2020 Annual Impact Report Construction Calendar Emergency Information News Community Community Engagement Campus Tours Employers Visitors Parents and Family Home Facilities Services and Campus Operations Campus Space Reservations Facilities Services and Campus Operations Campus Work Request System Billable/Non-Billable Work Billable Rate Schedule Campus Safety Commuter Services Parking on Campus Parking Permits Payroll Deduction Rates Carpools & Rideshare Disability Parking CSAC Recommendations Transportation Bicycling and Pedestrian Access Community Van UCAR U-PASS/Transit Citations Pay/Appeal Vehicle Boots Frequently Asked Questions About us Mail Services Building Maintenance Custodial Services Recycling, Disposal, Surplus Grounds and Wetlands Photos Shred It Service Campus Space Reservations 25Live Training - Getting Started 25Live Training - Requesting Space 25Live Advanced Resources 25Live FAQ Classroom & Event Equipment UWB Policy on Use of University Facilities Rates & information External Event Reservations Sponsorship & use of university facilities Scheduling dates Space types Indoor event spaces Outdoor Spaces Event policies Planning and Administration home Facilities Services and Campus Operations Campus Space Reservations Campus Space Reservations These pages are designed to help campus space users navigate the policies and procedures for using a room on campus. You can find information on event policies, 25Live Trainings, space reservation locations and view a table of important dates for reserving spaces on campus. Events & Conference Services uwbecs@uw.edu 425-352-3556 Requesting Space at UW Bothell UW Bothell’s Space Reservation System: 25Live 25Live is UW’s tri-campus application for reserving rooms and other physical spaces* on campus that provides a quick and easy way to check availability and request space all in one place. Please note, this system has replaced the FUAC form and the MyArc reservation system. *Note: This does not include Library spaces. In order to gain access to 25Live and request space, you must first complete the required 25Live training. You will only need to complete the required training one time. By default, anyone with a UW NetID can view space availability within 25Live. If you only need to view space availibility, you are not required to complete the 25Live training. However we strongly encourage you review the Getting Started with 25Live training. Advanced 25Live training is available to those wanting to get the most out of 25Live. Check out our 25Live FAQ for more information. Event Spaces and Conference Rooms Log in to 25Live with your UW NetID Use Express Scheduling to reserve a conference room at UW Bothell View the list of UW Bothell Conference rooms that are available for UW Bothell faculty and staff use. Activities and Recreation Center (ARC) 25Live has replaced the MyARC reservation system as the primary mechanism for requesting event space within the ARC. ARC spaces may be requested through the ARC Events page. For ARC reservation questions, email arcevent@uw.edu Classrooms for FTE-funded courses All UW Bothell faculty must contact their School’s Time Schedule Coordinator to request a classroom or lab space for their upcoming course. Your Time Schedule Coordinator will work with the Registrar to coordinate your room request. For more information, visit the classroom reservation webpage. Library study rooms Students looking to book a study room in the Campus Library can view more information on the Campus Library Study Room Reservation webpage. Event space at Cascadia College You can learn more about requesting event space at Cascadia College (including Mobius Hall) by viewing the Events at Cascadia webpage. Don't have a UW NetID to access 25Live? If you are a member of the general public looking to request space on campus, please visit the UW Bothell External Events webpage. If you're affiliated with Cascadia College, you can learn more about how to get a UW NetID at Cascadia College on their website. Questions? For 25Live event questions: email uwbecs@uw.edu For 25Live access questions: email uwbrms@uw.edu Use of University Facilities Under Washington state law, the use of any University of Washington facility or space is governed by the Use of University Facilities (UUF). At UW Bothell, this includes room reservations, event (including food and alcohol) policies, solicitation guidelines and campus postings. All UUF-related items are managed by the campus UUF Committee. Read the Use of University Facilities (UUF) Questions about the Use of University Facilities can be directed to the UUF Committee email: uwbecs@uw.edu Space Reservation Requests for Student Clubs and Organizations To request space on behalf of a UW Bothell student club, please contact Club Council at uwbclubs@uw.edu. To Request space on behalf of a UW Bothell student organizations, contact Student Engagement and Activities at uwbsea@uw.edu. For class projects, contact your academic program. University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Facilities & Campus Operations Box 358575 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.5466 Fax: 425.352.5455 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: uwbfs@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us