Skip to content Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Main Menu About A Brief Introduction | Engineering Study Abroad Milestone Events Student Life Annual Safety Security Report Academics Courses Academic Calendars Current GT Students Transient Students Graduate Programs MS Analytics MS Computer Science MS Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Environmental Engineering Master of Industrial Design Exchange To GT-Atlanta MS Analytics MS CS MS ECE MS ENVE Master of Industrial Design To GT-Shenzhen To GT-Lorraine Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Financial Scholarships Coulter Scholarships Merit-Based Scholarships NACA Scholarships Tuition and Fees Industry FAQ FAQ on Admission FAQ on Financial Matters FAQ on Programmatic Issues FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on PhD Ugrad Summer Contact Us Search Search for: Search Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS CS Program Master of Science (MS) in Computer Science (CS) students who matriculate through GT-Shenzhen must spend their first two semesters at GT-Shenzhen. Afterward, they have the possibility of studying at GT-Shenzhen or GT-Lorraine, or GT-Atlanta and completing their degree program. Students who complete the entire Georgia Tech degree program in Shenzhen may participate in the graduation ceremony in Atlanta if they secure a proper U.S. visa (such as a tourist visa). Students applying for the exchange to the GT-Atlanta MS CS program must have a Georgia Tech GPA of 3.5 or above (out of 4.0) and be in good disciplinary standing. GT-Shenzhen will perform multiple checks of this status before the exchange. Exchange students travel to Atlanta on an F-1 student visa and pay the applicable Atlanta campus tuition and fees. Their I-20 document must reflect the intended duration of stay and the financial resources required. F-1 visa holders should maintain full-time student registration of 12 credit hours or more during a spring or fall semester in Atlanta. Students sponsored by a foreign government or institution may only travel to the U.S. on a J-1 visa. See the GT Office of International Education (OIE) for more details. On-campus dormitory space is generally not available to exchange students during the fall or spring semester. GT-Shenzhen MS CS students have the following options if pursuing an exchange to GT-Atlanta: Complete the first 18-24 credit hours in Shenzhen and study in Atlanta the following fall or spring semester. Complete the first 15 credit hours in Shenzhen and study in Atlanta during the following fall & spring or spring & fall semesters. Due to space limitations in the GT-Atlanta MS CS program, the opportunity to exchange to GT-Atlanta is not guaranteed. Only the most outstanding students will be offered space for a two-semester exchange at GT-Atlanta. Students may apply for a two-semester exchange but granted space for a one-semester exchange at GT-Atlanta; such students can return to GT-Shenzhen to complete the remaining credit hours needed for graduation. The GT-Atlanta CS graduate office will conduct a holistic review of the student’s credentials including previous academic records especially curricular background in CS-related courses, performance in the GT-Shenzhen MS CS program, as well as the GT-Atlanta MS CS program capacity and decide whether the student will be granted the opportunity to exchange and if so, the space for one-semester or two-semester exchange. To apply for the exchange, the MS CS student should email gtshenzhen@nullcc.gatech.edu approximately 5 months before the start date of the exchange semester with the following information: Name, GTID, resume, and a completed MS CS exchange application form. Note that while GT-Shenzhen students may exchange to GT-Atlanta, the decision to grant the U.S. visa or not resides with the visa officer. Students with an F-1 visa may arrive in the U.S. 30 days before the start of the semester and may remain in the U.S. for 60 days following the completion of the degree program. Exchange Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS Analytics Program Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS CS Program Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS ECE Program Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS ENVE Program To GT-Shenzhen Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology