Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives International and Comparative Law To work as a lawyer in a multinational arena—whether in trade, technology, finance, or the protection of human rights—requires an in-depth understanding of distinct legal systems and cultures, including their individual characteristics and how they work in concert with, or opposition to, each other. How do nations define and influence international relations, global commerce, and fundamental human rights? Columbia Law pioneered the study of international legal systems and offers unrivaled breadth and depth in the field. Today, the Law School remains at the forefront of scholarship and policy on issues of global human rights advocacy, international corporate and antitrust law, economic migration, and global governance. Regionally focused centers and programs host leading thinkers, scholars, and activists; take on pressing policy issues; and enable students to collaborate with faculty on groundbreaking research. Three centers focused on law in Asia offer extraordinary expertise and resources. Further, Columbia faculty helped develop international institutions—including the United Nations after World War II—and create the modern legal framework for global human rights law. Why Columbia? Take advantage of distinguished centers and institutes: The Law School is the only institution of its kind with three centers focused on Asian law: the Hong Yen Chang Center for Chinese Legal Studies, the Center for Japanese Legal Studies, and the Center for Korean Legal Studies; the European Legal Studies Center hosts visiting scholars and offers internships at international legal institutions; and the Human Rights Institute, one of the oldest and largest law school human rights centers in the world, along with the Human Rights Clinic, provides training in international advocacy and matches students with mentors experienced in global human rights work. Gain experience through externships at the United Nations and simulations in international law and in dispute resolution and diplomacy. Enroll in double-degree programs with universities in Europe, 15 study abroad programs in 11 countries, and cross-disciplinary course offerings through Columbia’s School of International and Public Affairs. Participate in international moot court competitions for first-year students. Apply for post-graduate fellowship opportunities at the European Court of Justice and the International Court of Justice. Related Links Explore Courses Related Faculty All Faculty George A. Bermann Gellhorn Professor of Law and Monnet Professor in European Union Law Jagdish Bhagwati University Professor Philip C. Bobbitt Herbert Wechsler Professor of Federal Jurisprudence Anu Bradford Henry L. Moses Professor of Law and International Organization Sarah Cleveland Louis Henkin Professor of Human and Constitutional Rights Lori F. Damrosch Hamilton Fish Professor of International Law and Diplomacy Michael W. Doyle University Professor George P. Fletcher Cardozo Professor of Jurisprudence Madhav Khosla Associate Professor of Law Sarah M. Knuckey Lieff Cabraser Clinical Professor of Law Benjamin L. Liebman Robert L. Lieff Professor of Law Katharina Pistor Edwin B. Parker Professor of Comparative Law Matthew C. Waxman Liviu Librescu Professor of Law All Faculty Listing Related Centers and Programs All Centers and Programs Hong Yen Chang Center for Chinese Legal Studies The Center for Chinese Legal Studies was the first organization of its kind at an American law school and has cultivated a tradition of rich scholarly exchange with the Chinese legal community for decades. It provides students with a wide range of curricular and extracurricular activities and guest speakers and equips them with the knowledge they will need to succeed in practicing within China’s rapidly changing legal environment. Areas of Study International and Comparative Law Center for International Commercial & Investment Arbitration The Center for International Commercial & Investment Arbitration furthers the teaching and study of international arbitration. Through research and collaborations with other like-minded institutions worldwide, the center develops effective methods of resolving international disputes and encouraging international commerce and exchange. The center also prepares students and young professionals interested in arbitration and dispute resolution for careers in the field. Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law International and Comparative Law Litigation and Dispute Resolution Center for Japanese Legal Studies The Center for Japanese Legal Studies is the first and only center in the United States devoted exclusively to Japanese law. Bolstered by a premier private collection of Japanese law materials, the center facilitates understanding of the Japanese legal system through teaching and research. Through robust programs and events, course and speaker series, and faculty and student exchanges, the center promotes intellectual exchange between American and Japanese students and scholars. Areas of Study International and Comparative Law Center for Korean Legal Studies The Center for Korean Legal Studies supports research, education, and debate on a broad range of law and policy issues impacting the Korean Peninsula. The first of its kind in the United States, the center hosts programs, events, visiting scholars opportunities, and initiatives that engage leading practitioners and scholars. Areas of Study International and Comparative Law Center on Global Governance The Center on Global Governance addresses the legal dimensions of globalization through interdisciplinary research and scholarship. The center promotes a rich and nuanced understanding of global law and the international community through seminars and courses, distinguished guest speakers, access to international talent, and interdisciplinary research and scholarship. Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law International and Comparative Law Center on Global Legal Transformation The Center on Global Legal Transformation sheds light on the ways in which law shapes global relations and how they in turn transform law. The center develops major research projects, organizes workshops and conferences, sponsors doctoral students, and engages researchers and policymakers from different disciplines, backgrounds, and locations. Areas of Study International and Comparative Law Legal History European Legal Studies Center The European Legal Studies Center trains students to assume leadership roles in international and European law, public affairs, and the global economy. The center’s New York home provides students with rich research and professional opportunities, including externships at the U.N. or U.N. missions, clinical opportunities in human rights, prestigious international internships and clerkships, and international dual degree and study abroad programs. Students can also take advantage of Columbia Law School’s curriculum, which offers one of the broadest arrays of international, comparative, and foreign law courses of any law school in the United States. Areas of Study International and Comparative Law All Centers and Programs Public Interest/Public Service No matter what your area of interest, find ways to incorporate public interest and public service into your academic program and career. Academics Careers Related Student Groups and Journals Columbia European Law Association Columbia International Arbitration Association Columbia Latin America Business Law Association Columbia Law Israel Organization Columbia Law School Brazilian Association Columbia Law Students for Palestine Columbia Muslim Law Students Association Columbia Society of International Law Columbia Southeastern and Eastern European Law Society Law in Africa Students Society Middle Eastern Law Students Association NHK: Japanese Legal Studies Association Society for Chinese Law Society for Korean Legal Studies Society for the Advancement of Law and Talmud The American Review of International Arbitration Columbia Journal of Asian Law Columbia Journal of European Law Columbia Journal of Transnational Law Related News Read All Stories More in The Press Research and Scholarship News Beyond “Unprecedented”: Pandemic Pressures on Global Trade In the final episode of Columbia Law’s limited podcast series, hosted by Professor Eric Talley, Professors Anu Bradford and Petros Mavroidis discuss the effects of the pandemic on global trade and whether the World Trade Organization and the European Union can handle political upheavals exacerbated by the health crisis, Brexit, and the U.S.-China trade war. In The Press “We Are at Risk of a New Cold War Between Democracies and Autocracies” Michael W. Doyle | Le Monde In The Press How to Help Ukrainian Refugees Michael W. Doyle | Newsweek Events News Columbia Journal of Transnational Law Honors Climate Change Diplomat Christiana Figueres Celebrating Hong Yen Chang 1886 All News & Stories Celebrating Hong Yen Chang 1886 and Columbia’s Leadership in Chinese Legal Studies All News & Stories Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.