Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Lambuth Orientation Orientation Information Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact New Student Orientation at Lambuth U of M Lambuth Campus PreviousNext Take Action Orientation Information Orientation FAQ Contact Us Virtual Resources Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Lambuth Orientation Lambuth Orientation Welcome to the Lambuth Campus New Student Orientation (NSO) is designed to help you and your parents make a smooth transition into college life at the University of Memphis Lambuth. Your orientation program will include informative presentations from administrators and faculty members, small group discussions, academic advising and course registration. Orientation will afford you many opportunities to meet other incoming students and to interact with our Orientation Guides (OGs) who, as current students, can give you first-hand information about the UofM based on their experiences. We are following current CDC guidelines for New Student Orientation this year,and will ensure that all of our incoming students are able to remain safe during their visit to campus. Be sure to visit our FAQ and Prepare for Orientation pages to learn more about how to get ready for New Student Orientation. Freshmen, take a look at Freshman Orientation. SUMMARY of FEES Student Fee -- $50 Includes orientation program, materials, and two meals. Parent/Guest Program -- $25 per Parent/Guest Includes orientation program, materials, and two meals. Students and parents who are coming from out of town and need hotel accommodations should visit the Jackson Chamber of Commerce website at jacksontn.com for a list of accommodations. Refund Policy You must cancel two weeks in advance to receive a refund, regardless of when you register. If eligible, we will process your refund after we receive the request in writing at orientation@memphis.edu. Register for New Student Orientation! We're so glad that you have chosen to be #MEMbound, and we look forward to meeting you at New Student Orientation! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/15/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.