Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Careers More in this Section Explore Careers: Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Columbia Law School offers a vast array of career resources, including counseling, peer mentoring, mock interview programs, professional development events, speaker series, résumé assistance, job search materials, database access, and more. Students also benefit from the Law School’s network of 27,000-plus alumni across 119 countries and longstanding relationships with top employers. Private Sector Careers Practice law at the highest levels across the private sector—from global law firms and corporations to startups and boutiques. Columbia Law is the gateway to legal practice. Learn More Public Interest and Public Service Careers Make an impact. Public service is part of every legal career, whether a full-time position in public interest law or government, or through a robust pro bono practice. Learn More Academic Careers Elevate the future of legal education. Columbia Law School graduates teach the next generation of legal professionals at top law schools in the U.S. and around the world. Learn More Judicial Clerkships Clerkships are a springboard for legal careers. Each year, dozens of Columbia Law School students secure prestigious clerkship positions with our nation’s most influential federal and state judges. Learn More Career Outcomes Explore Careers Resources 97.4% of 2020 graduates employed 10 months after graduation See more stats. 28,000 alumni in your network Learn more. 118 countries where alumni live and work Explore Careers Resources Career Events View All Events View All Events Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Students Video What the Law Means to Me: Members of the Class of 2021 Share Their Stories Seven members of the Class of 2021 reflect on their Columbia Law School experiences and what they hope to achieve next. Alumni News How I Got Here: Oscar Lopez ’13 Alumni News How I Got Here: Jin Hee Lee ’00 Alumni News Diversity at Law Firms: A Renewed Focus Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.