Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Research Advisory Board The Research Advisory Board is the faculty advisory committee that counsels the Vice President for Research, and OVPR executive staff, regarding research policies, procedures, and initiatives. The Research Advisory Board collaborates and works in unison with several University offices and governing bodies in order to enact the best possible research policies and procedures at all levels. The Board's membership represents the wide range of research fields throughout the University. It meets once a month during the academic year. If you have issues, agenda items, and or concerns to be addressed to the Research Advisory Board, please contact Amy Carroll in the Office of Research Development at [email protected]. Members 2021-2022 Jill Pipher (Vice President for Research; Mathematics) Mark Blyth (Political Science) Elizabeth Chen (Biomedical Informatics; Health Services, Policy and Practice) Vicki Colvin (Biomedical Engineering; Chemistry) Greg Hirth (Earth, Environmental, and Planetary Sciences) Linford Fisher (History) Andrew Schrank (Sociology) Anubhav Tripathi (Engineering) RAB charge from the Faculty Rules and Regulations: H. Research Advisory Board 1. Charge The Office of the Vice President for Research Advisory Board shall serve to advise the Vice President for Research, and other senior officers as appropriate, on resources and priorities with regard to University research. The OVPR Advisory Board shall review and make recommendations regarding the University’s policies and programs concerning the Office of Research Administration, the IRB, Brown Technology Partnerships, research funding, external collaborations, interdepartmental communications and other matters within the purview of the OVRP. The OVPR Advisory Board may create standing and ad hoc committees and sub-committees to handle specific matters under its broad charge. Charges and memberships of the various committees and sub-committees shall be consistent with the charge and membership guidelines governing the creation of Administrative Advisory Boards and shall be made known to the campus by the Vice President for Research. 2. Membership The members shall consist of the Vice President for Research; a minimum of four faculty members who shall serve staggered terms lasting at least two years. Students and staff may serve, as appropriate. 3. Chair and Staffing The Board Chair shall be the Vice President for Research. The Vice Chair shall be a faculty member who is elected by the Board at the end of his/her first year of service. The Board shall be staffed by the Office of the Vice President for Research. 4. Procedures The Executive Committee, consisting of at least the Chair and Vice Chair, shall set the agenda for the Board meetings. The Board shall meet at least once per semester. The Board shall report annually in writing to the Faculty. The report is to be given by the Vice Chair or, in his/her absence, by the Chair. 5. Appointment of Members Faculty members will be appointed by the Vice President for Research with advice from the Committee on Nominations. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Staff Contact Information About Jill Pipher Reports Research Advisory Board Organizational Charts Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat