Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University University Library Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Index Hours My Library Card Give Research & Collections Find Books & Media (Quick Search) Article Indexes & Databases e-Books e-Journals - A-Z list Specific Article by Citation or DOI Course Reserves Movies and TV Streaming Video Collections WorldCat (Open Access) Catalogs of Other Libraries Iowa State Collections DataShare: ISU's Data Repository Digital Collections Digital Initiatives Digital Press Digital Repository @ Iowa State University Special Collections and University Archives Research Help Research and Course Guides Quick Search Tips Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Material Find Audiovisual Materials Find Books Find Census Data Find Government Documents Find Images Find Legal Research Find Magazines, Journals Find Manuscripts and Archives Find Maps Find Microforms Find Newspapers and News Find Standards Cite Sources Cite Sources Overview Endnote Ask Us! Find Your Librarian Collections Areas Leisure Collection Media Center Periodical Room Reference Materials Call Numbers in Parks Library Library Storage Building Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Overview About the Design Reading Room Course Reserves - Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Staff Veterinary Medicine Library Restricted Building Access About the Vet Med Library Veterinary Medicine Library Staff Borrowing Main Desk Check Out and Return Request Books and More Pick From Shelf Service Recall or Hold an Item Renew an Item Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery (ILL/DD) ILL/DD Overview ILL/DD Account Login Interlibrary Loan FAQ Libraries Requesting ISU Materials Unaffiliated User Terms and Conditions Missing Items Loan Periods Fines (overdue/lost items) Book a Media Item for Classroom Use Who May Borrow? Your Library Card Help & Services Accessibility Services Accessibility Services Overview Services & Equipment Available Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Accessibility Services at Branch Libraries For You Services for Students Faculty & Instructors Distance Learners International Nest Alumni & Visitors Assistance Lost & Found Find Your Librarian Ask a Librarian How Do I ... Library FAQ Access E-Resources Access My Library Card Get Something That's Not Available Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Materials Cite Sources Quick Search Tips Teaching & Class Support Library Instruction Overview Library 160 Course-related Instruction Course Reserves Research and Course Guides Workshops Copyright Information Open Scholarship Services Binding theses Solution Center Systems Status Spaces & Computers Study Rooms Group Study Rooms Research Study Rooms Quiet Areas Reserve a Library Space Parks Library spaces Floor & Tier Maps Accessible and Sensory Friendly Spaces Learning Connections Center Bookends Café International Nest Mindfulness Room Where to find ... Room Number Listings Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Diaper changing stations and lactation room Restrooms Library Classroom Use Computers & Technology Assistive Technology Computers and Computer Labs Interactive Displays for Group Work Laptop & Equipment Checkout Group Equipment Loans Outlets and Wireless Printing, Copying, Scanning Other Equipment Parks Libro NVivo Software Access Design Reading Room Veterinary Medicine Library Ask Us! Grant Wood Murals Poetry about the murals: Tillage as art, by Neal Bowers; Hard labor, by Michael Carey The murals in the Grant Wood Heritage Area and on the walls of the staircase leading to the Upper Lobby of the original building are without doubt the major artistic feature of the Iowa State University Library. All panels are oil on canvas designed by famed Iowa regionalist artist Grant Wood (1892-1942) and executed under the federal program providing work for unemployed artists in the 1930s. As newly appointed head of the Public Works of Art Project for Iowa, later named Civil Works Administration, Wood was asked by Iowa State President Raymond M. Hughes to plan murals for the Library. Wood obviously welcomed this opportunity to employ artists, and made his selection from those who had exhibited at the Iowa State Fair. The murals use as a theme a quotation from Daniel Webster's remarks on "The Agriculture of England" made on January 13, 1840 in the State House in Boston: "When tillage begins, other arts follow. The farmers, therefore, are the founders of human civilization." The first half of this quotation appears below the window ledge above the first stairway landing. This quote was a favorite theme for many mural projects of the era because of the emphasis on the nation's agrarian heritage. Thomas Jefferson's vision of a republic of family farms engaged in subsistence agriculture had great appeal to the regionalist artists who idealized the noble farmer and caring wife. Wood's farmscapes of this period depict a 'streamlined rural paradise' devoid of sweating hands, market risks, foreclosed mortgages, and the effects of bad weather, crop pests and disease. Grant Wood, together with Thomas Hart Benton of Missouri and John Steuart Curry of Kansas, formed an important American art movement known as regionalism, which held that painters should paint those things they know best rather than rely on European influences. Born on a farm near Anamosa, Wood became successful in painting the fields, activities and people of Iowa, and is perhaps best remembered for his "American Gothic" portrait of the stoic midwestern farmer and daughter. The steps followed in creating these murals involved: making preliminary sketches, then finished drawings in color; enlarging the drawings on brown wrapping paper; transferring the enlarged designs to the stretched canvas panels by pouncing through perforated outlines made with a spiked wheel; and finally painting the canvases with oils. Francis McCray did the enlargements, and Arnold Pyle did all of the color mixing of the oil paints. The color scheme complements the warm tones of the yellowish Minnesota travertine stone framing the murals. According to Wood, a limited palette was used in painting both sets of murals: yellow ochre, cadmium red, black and white; all other colors were obtained by mixing. Blue was used sparingly, only for some of the prairie flowers, so that it would not 'jump out' of the painting since hues appear more intense when placed close to their complement. A much-needed cleaning and restoration of the murals was completed by conservator Margaret Randall Ash in September 1974. Funding for the project was provided by the ISU Class of 1959 and a matching grant from the National Endowment for the Arts. Under the University's system for regular preservation maintenance of art works, Ivan Hanthorn, head of the Library's Preservation Department, removed the accumulation of remodeling dust in 1988. When Tillage Begins Other Arts Follow Agriculture Panel Other Arts Follow Home Economics Panel Other Arts Follow Engineering Panel University Library University Library 701 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011-2102 Ask Us! 515 294-3642 phone Email Webmaster Facebook Twitter Follow us FDLP Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information