Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Diversity & Inclusion Menu Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It! Baylor>Diversity & Inclusion>Leadership Commitment>Human Sexuality at Baylor>Frequently Asked Questions Human Sexuality - FAQs What is Baylor’s Policy Stance on Human Sexuality? In keeping with Baylor University’s Christian mission and its historic partnership with Texas Baptists, all members of the University community are encouraged to consider and respect the teachings of Jesus and the beliefs common to the Christian church. As indicated in Baylor’s Statement on Human Sexuality, “The University affirms the biblical understanding of sexuality as a gift from God. Christian churches across the ages and around the world have affirmed purity in singleness and fidelity in marriage between a man and a woman as the biblical norm.” Sexual relations of any kind outside of a marriage between a man and a woman are not in keeping with the teaching of Scripture, as understood by the preponderance of Christian congregations and denominations throughout history, including the 5,000-plus churches affiliated with the Baptist General Convention of Texas. Therefore, as a matter of moral commitment and Christian witness, all members of the University community are expected to abide by Baylor’s Sexual Conduct Policy and to respect this understanding of sexual relationships. Why does Baylor have a statement about human sexuality? Baylor provides this statement so that those who join our campus community are aware of the University’s values and expectations. We believe that Scripture is the ultimate authority on how to conduct our lives and that it serves as a light to guide our way in a manner that honors God and others. What if I disagree with Baylor’s statement on human sexuality and related policies and procedures? Baylor respects everyone’s right to express his or her opinion, and the University recognizes that there are members of our community who do not agree with Baylor’s statement on human sexuality. Regardless of one’s viewpoint on this issue, we believe that all people have been created in God’s image and that God loves all people unconditionally. Thus, Baylor supports the dignity and worth of every person and seeks to create a campus climate where each person is treated with love and respect within our caring community, as outlined in our University mission statement. Can students face disciplinary action or lose their University financial aid for identifying as LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or queer)? No. What if an LGBTQ student feels threatened on campus? How will Baylor respond to the harassment of LGBTQ students? As a loving and caring campus community, Baylor will not tolerate harassment of any member of the Baylor Family and will take appropriate disciplinary action against anyone found responsible for such behavior. Baylor is committed to promoting and maintaining an educational environment in which students can learn and grow without the fear of being harassed. Students – including those who identify as LGBTQ – can report sexual harassment or sexual assault to the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office without fear of retribution. If students are threatened or are in immediate danger, they should contact the Baylor University Police Department at (254) 710-2222. Where can LGBTQ students go for support and community? We recognize that thinking through sexual development issues in isolation can be overwhelming for students and that community support in a trusted environment can be positive and nurturing. Thus, the University provides several areas of support for LGBTQ students. The Baylor Counseling Center offers voluntary support groups for LGBTQ (and questioning) students, which are overseen by experienced counseling professionals. The Chaplain’s Office/Department of Spiritual Life may also be of assistance. In addition, the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office may offer support and resources. The University is committed to ensuring that these support services are deserving of students’ trust. Additionally, there are many caring and trusted faculty and staff across campus, as well as resources and informal support groups within the greater Waco community. Are there welcoming and affirming churches in the Waco area? Central Texas Metropolitan Community Church Lake Shore Baptist Church UBC Waco Unitarian Universalist Fellowship of Waco Do Baylor counselors practice or condone conversion or reparative therapy for LGBTQ students? No Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It!