DACA Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services Resources Undocumented Students DACA FAQ Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ UH Resources Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars COVID-19 Resources ADHD/ LD/ Autism Assessment DACA Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) These FAQs are meant for informational purposes only and are not provided for the purpose of addressing individual situations. The FAQs are not meant to be considered specific legal advice, which can only be given by lawyers to their clients. You should contact your own attorney or a legal clinic if you need guidance about a specific legal question. What is the status of the DACA program? DACA remains in effect at this time. Current DACA recipients continue to be protected from deportation and are eligible for other DACA benefits, such as work authorization. In light of the June 2020 Supreme Court decision holding that DACA remains in effect, we anticipate that the UH Department of Homeland Security will provide further specific guidance on filing new applications and renewals for DACA. As a DACA recipient, am I eligible to attend UH? Yes, upon acceptance through the admission process. Immigration status is not considered as a factor in admission. Does UH ask students about their immigration status? No. UH does not check immigration status when a student enrolls at the University. Am I eligible to receive in-state tuition? Possibly. Students who are Texas residents are eligible for in-state tuition. What are the requirements to be eligible for in-state tuition? Texas residency is determined by state law. For students who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents, residency may be established if you: Graduated from a Texas high school or received a general educational development (GED) certificate in Texas; and Continuously lived in Texas for three (3) years leading up to graduation from high school or receipt of GED certificate; and Continuously resided or will have resided in Texas for the 12 months preceding enrollment at UH; and Have filed or will file an application to become a permanent resident at the earliest opportunity that they are eligible to do so. For more information, please visit the University of Houston's TASFA page. Am I eligible to apply for financial aid? Yes. DACA students are eligible for state-based financial aid but are not eligible for federal financial aid. To apply for state-based aid, students must file the Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA). Additionally, DACA students may be eligible for scholarships from outside organizations. The UH Center for Student Empowerment (CSE) can provide more information on scholarships, opportunities, and other resources. Am I eligible for work-study? While DACA students are not eligible for federal financial aid, they may be eligible for state-based financial aid. While funds are limited, DACA students may be eligible for work-study opportunities through the Texas College Work-Study Program. Students must complete an eTASFA or TASFA form to be considered. Am I eligible for employment? Yes, if you have a valid Employment Authorization Card. In response to the backlog due to COVID-19 for renewals to expiring employment authorization, USCIS has indicated that where applicable, employment authorization with the same employer, subject to the same terms and conditions of the prior approval, is automatically extended for up to 240 days after I-94 expiration when an extension of stay request is filed on time. Can I study abroad? It is not recommended for DACA recipients to study abroad at this time. Under the original DACA program, DACA recipients could apply to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) for permission to temporarily travel abroad and return to the U.S. This permission is known as “advance parole”. When the administration sought to rescind DACA in 2017, USCIS stopped accepting and approving applications for advance parole. USCIS has not yet indicated that it will start accepting advance parole applications at this time. Can my DACA status be terminated or revoked? Yes. It can be revoked if you are convicted of a crime that would disqualify you from DACA, including crimes related to violence, drugs, sexual abuse, burglary, possession or use of a firearm, driving under the influence, or gangs, you could lose your deferred action and be placed in removal proceedings. Where can DACA recipients or other undocumented students find support on campus? UH Law Center Immigration Clinic: The University of Houston Law Center’s Immigration Clinic is available to UH students from any campus who need a free intake consultation. Appointments can be scheduled by calling the clinic's main number at (713) 743-2094. Be sure to indicate you are a student with the UH System and ask for an intake consultation. UH Center for Student Empowerment (CSE): The Center for Student Empowerment (CSE) in the UH Division of Student Affairs complements the larger mission of the University of Houston by expanding opportunities for the university's diverse student population by preventing minor obstacles from becoming major setbacks to degree achievement. The priority at CSE is to help students thrive by offering a variety of services that students need to get the most out of their college experience and prepare for a successful future. The CSE Office is located in Student Service Center 1, Bldg., 524, Room 302; email: uhcse@central.uh.edu; phone 713-743-6032. UH Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS): Counseling to help cope with the anxiety of uncertainty is also available through UH Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). CAPS promotes the well-being of the diverse campus community by balancing high-quality mental health services and clinical training with accessibility to foster student success through self-discovery, learning, and interpersonal engagement. CAPS believes that the mental health of students is a vital component of their academic, personal, and professional success. CAPS is able to provide emotional and psychological support for students who may be experiencing a range of emotions, including fear, shock, anxiety, sadness, helplessness, and/or anger. After business hours, CAPS is available to you 24/7 by calling the main number at 713.743.5454 to be connected to an after-hours counselor. CAPS is located at Student Services Center 1, Room 226. UH Center for Diversity and Inclusion (CDI): The Center for Diversity and Inclusion (CDI) provides workshops, programs, student leadership opportunities, and safe space environments to promote cross-cultural communication and culturally-responsive practices that help diverse communities connect. CDI is located in the Student Center South, Suite B12; email: uhcdi@central.uh.edu. The Center for Diversity and Inclusion along with a committee of students, faculty, and staff created the DREAMzone Ally Training modeled after Arizona State University’s DREAMzone Training. The workshop educates the University of Houston community about the undocumented student experience, discusses the challenges that undocumented students and their families may face, and provides local and national resources that assist undocumented students through their collegiate journey. The goal of this training is to create a more inclusive campus environment for undocumented students who are often considered an invisible population. UH Scholarships and Financial Aid Office: DACA Students may be eligible for state-based financial aid by submitting a Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA). The University provides a number of resources to assist you as you apply for financial aid. Questions? Visit the financial literacy page, contact the financial aid office or get in touch with your financial aid advisor directly. Financial aid advisors are available via email, by phone (713-743-1010, option #5), and by virtual advising appointments (schedule via the Navigate app) to help you with questions about your financial aid process. If you do not have a Cougarnet account, you can call to make a virtual appointment. Should faculty or administrative staff inquire about a student’s immigration status? Generally, no. The very limited exception is if the faculty or administrative staff member works in a capacity to assist DACA students or otherwise assist with immigration questions or related financial aid questions and the student asks for information or assistance. Who do I contact if I feel my rights are being violated on campus? If you are concerned that your rights are being violated, you can file a report with the UH Office of Equal Opportunity Services (EOS), which processes and investigates all complaints regarding protected classes and Title IX protocols. To inquire or file a complaint, please contact EOS to set up an appointment or visit the EOS office in person. The EOS Office is located in Student Service Center 2, Bldg. 526; email: eos@uh.edu; phone 713-743-8835. In compliance with federal, state, and local directives, in-person support services may be suspended temporarily out of concern for the safety and well-being of our community. Additionally, you can file a report with the Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline by logging on to Convercent, or calling 1-800-461-9330 to make a report 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The call center supports more than 300+ languages. Where can I find out more information about DACA? Information pages from the Immigrant Legal Resource Center (ILRC): ILRC DACA Information and resources ILRC Annotated DACA Application Guide Information pages from US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS): USCIS information on service availability during COVID-19 USCIS form (Form I-821D) to apply for or renew DACA status USCIS filing tips on completing the form to apply for or renew DACA status UH Diversity and Inclusion Statement The University of Houston embraces diversity and recognizes our responsibility to foster an open, welcoming environment where students, faculty, and staff of all backgrounds can collaboratively learn, work, and serve. We value the academic, social, and broader community benefits that arise from a diverse campus and are committed to equity, inclusion, and accountability. Diversity enriches our university community and is a driving force instrumental to our institutional success and fulfillment of the university’s mission. We commit to engaging in an ongoing dialogue to thoughtfully respond to the changing realities of our increasingly interconnected world. We will continually strive to work together to address the challenges of the future in a way that removes barriers to success and promotes a culture of inclusivity, compassion, and mutual respect. The competencies gained through diverse experiences across campus prepare all of our students, staff, and faculty to thrive personally and professionally in a global society. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies