Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Military & Veterans Programs Menu Search TTU Military & Veterans Programs FAQ What is the recommended browser to use for MVP Forms? Chrome or Firefox is the recommended browser. Do NOT use Internet Explorer with MVP Forms. How will I know if my form has been submitted? A message pops up on the screen immediately upon submission stating, “Your form has been submitted”. At the top right, there is a notification screen, which will show a green indicator, also informing you the form has been submitted. Do I receive a notification that my form has been worked and approved by MVP? Once your form has been reviewed, you will receive an email stating your form has been either DENIED or APPROVED. A Denial email will state the reason the application was denied and steps to take to resubmit if a correction is needed. With every application, it is a two-part process, so keep in mind that even if your application is approved in the first phase of review, it may be denied the second phase. After the first review, an approval will state that your form is approved to move to the second stage of approval. When your record is reviewed in the second phase, the approval will state your record had been approved and completed for final review. My form was DENIED. What do I do? If your form was denied, you will receive an email stating it was denied and the reason or instructions to follow. You must go back into MVP FORMS on the MVP website and resubmit your form once you have corrected the issue. My MVP Certification form was approved for some of my classes but not all. What do I need to do? You have choices in this situation. First, remember that VA only pays for classes that apply to your degree plan, so any course you are taking needs to REQUIRED on your degree plan. If you are within the add/drop period, you can drop that class and add a different class which is required on your degree plan then go into MVP Forms and submit a MVP Change Request Form for the added class(es). You can choose to pay for the course out-of-pocket on your own. If you believe the class(es) are required, contact your advisor to update your Degree Works Degree Plan to show the requirement and upload a copy of the updated degree plan on MVP Forms on a MVP Change Request Form, so MVP can submit the change to the VA. In some instances, we may be able to take a letter from your advisor or department on their letterhead as proof as well. An MVP staff member will review the letter to verify it is acceptable under VA regulations. You would need to upload this proof on a MVP Change Request Form. I pushed SAVE. Does that mean my form has been submitted? No! If you push SAVE, it saves your form so that you can come back and finish your form at a later time. You must push SUBMIT to send your form to MVP. Please understand that if you even push SAVE by accident and fail to push SUBMIT, our office is not able to expedite the processing once you SUBMIT. Records are worked in order of receipt. How long does it take MVP to process my form? MVP has a 30 business day processing window. This 30 business day period excludes holidays when TTU is closed and weekends. When can I submit my form? You can submit your MVP Forms once you have registered for a semester with no expected changes. I have submitted a MVP Certification Form but made a change and now I cannot access the form. What do I do? You should submit a MVP Change Request Form for any changes in your federal benefits; for example, dropping or adding a class, changing/adding/dropping your major, minor, or specialization or withdrawing from TTU. Even if your total hours have not changed, it is essential you still submit an MVP Change Request Form, as we are still required to verify the new course(s) are REQUIRED on your degree plan, for VA purposes. Understand that your benefits may be affected with any changes. Only VA can determine payments or how benefits are affected. What is the deadline for submitting a form? MVP Certification and MVP Change Request Forms along with supporting documents can be submitted up to one year past the current semester for Federal VA Educational Benefits. Submit Hazlewood Initial and Hazlewood Continuing Applications no later than the last day of class in the current semester. Note: last day of class means before finals start. MVP always recommends that students submit their forms as soon as they are registered for courses for that term, when they expect no changes. Do I have to submit these forms every semester? Yes. You must submit a form for each semester in which you wish to be certified for a benefit. I received an error message when I tried to submit.What do I do? First, make sure you are in a Firefox or Chrome browser Next, take a screen shot of the message and email it to us at mvp@ttu.edu with your Name, R#, browser you are using, and the form name. We will do our best to resolve any technical errors as soon as possible. I received a bill from Student Business Services, SBS. What do I do? I did not submit my MVP Forms at least 30 business days prior to my bill being due. If SBS has sent you a bill, you will need to make payment arrangements with SBS or you will be dropped for non-payment. All Chapter 33 Post 9/11 GI BIll students must submit a 3rd Party Agreement form along with their COE, Certificate of Eligibility letter, from the VA. All other chapters and Hazlewood Students may enroll in a Military Payment Plan 2 weeks before school starts. You may take advantage of the Emergency Payment Plan option. There is a $25 non-refundable fee to enroll in this plan, which postpones your payment so there is time for applicable benefits to post. MVP is not the billing office, and we do not process students' bills. MVP cannot post or remove holds from students' accounts. What is a COE and where do I get one? COE stands for ‘Certificate of Eligibility”. VA mails you a COE letter upon initial approval of VA benefits after you have applied for VA benefits on VONAPP or by mail. You can always get the same information from eBenefits. The VA sends out updated COEs to students. If you are not receiving them, please call the VA to ensure you have an updated address on file. Another way to obtain a copy of your COE is to go to www.gibill.va.gov Select SUBMIT A QUESTION, located under FAQS. Log in to your account. If you do not have one, register for one. Select the appropriate categories for the message. This way, you are able to formally request a copy of your COE from the VA. Please remember that this method of obtaining your COE is not instantaneous, and the VA has their own processing window in responding back to your request. How do I access information such as a COE on eBenefits? Log in to your eBenefits account. If you do not have one, register for one. At the top menu bar, select MANAGE, then EDUCATION. Select POST-9/11 GI BILL ENROLLMENT STATUS. This should pull up your COE. Note: it may not look like a traditional COE, but will have the same information as a COE. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 6, 2022 10:13 AM Military & Veterans Programs Events & Calendar Military & Veterans Programs Back Events Military & Veterans Programs Back Upcoming Events & Announcements Green Zone TechVet Boot Camp Camo to Corporate Tournament for Heroes Stole & Recognition Ceremony Coffee & Conversations: Afghanistan Programs & Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Getting Started Military & Veterans Programs Back Prior to Discharge Start Here Submit MVP Certification Forms FAQ Hazlewood Act Military & Veterans Programs Back Overview Veteran Legacy Children/Spouses-100% Veterans Previous Recipients Federal VA Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Federal Educational Benefits Resources Military & Veterans Programs Back Connections Military & Veterans Programs Back Campus Resources Community Resources State Resources Federal Resources Places of Interest in Lubbock and West Texas Useful Links Military & Veterans National Alumni Network (MVN) TTU Parents Association Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Academic Support Military & Veterans Programs Back Veteran Liaisons Tutoring Guide Mentoring Study Abroad for Students Using Veterans Benefits College Credit for Heroes Financial Information Military & Veterans Programs Back Financial Aid Student Business Services Veterans Benefit Estimator MVP Scholarships About MVP Military & Veterans Programs Back Department Info Military & Veterans Programs Back Welcome Message Professional Staff MVP Program Specialists Ratings, Rankings & Awards Stars & Stripes Study Lounge Gallery Press Releases Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index