Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News Campus Recreation introduces online fitness program April 7, 2020 Student parking permit fees transferred to student bill May 7, 2020 description UC community: Missing MainStreet and campus as much as we are? May 4, 2020 Download UC backgrounds for video calls, meetings and online summer classes Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove New parking rates, options for University of Cincinnati employees May 18, 2022 A new parking permit rate increase will go into effect Friday, July 1, 2022 for UC employees who purchase parking permits. The rate increase, which will help the university meet its capital needs and allow for new customer technology improvements, can be found on the UC Parking Services website. UC residence tower rises in high style May 9, 2022 Known as the southern gateway to campus, where almost 3,000 students pass through on their way to U-square every day, the more than $80 million facelift on the University of Cincinnati's Calhoun residence hall now shines a light on the positive, modern features adorning the 16-story tower overlooking UC’s Uptown campus and surrounding city. UC hosts Campus Services Showcase on May 5 April 19, 2022 Event: May 5, 2022 11:00 AM Campus Services Showcase May 5, 2022 Pay UC parking fines for a good cause March 29, 2022 Event: April 1, 2022 11:54 AM "Food for Fines” is going virtual April 1-29. To participate, UC parking citation holders should pay their violation fee(s) online by logging into their parking portal’s account, and choosing the “Food for Fines” option. In turn, Parking Services will make a St. George Interfaith Food Pantry donation that equals the citation’s total amount. Lifeguard training available at UC March 21, 2022 Campus Recreation offers two free lifeguard training sessions in spring 2022 Everything you need to know about UC housing January 27, 2022 UC Director of Housing Carl Dieso shares the housing process — apply, select your room and move in — and benefits of living on campus. Who is that behind the Bearcat? December 13, 2021 The term 'Bearcat' has been part of the University of Cincinnati tradition for more than a century. The Bearcat mascot has been the face of UC to students, community members, sports fans and others. The mascot's persona and antics entertain and inspire excellence at the university on and off of the sports field. New sites available now on Bearcats Landing December 1, 2021 New sites available now on Bearcats Landing as fall semester site builds are completed. MarketPointe makeover November 30, 2021 When fall semester ends, a year-long renovation will begin on the MarketPointe dining center. In order to supplement food service during construction, a new carryout location will open spring semester in Catskeller, located on the lower level of Tangeman University Center.  Join Campus Rec before the end of the year and save! November 30, 2021 New members can join Campus Recreation in November for as little as $4 per month. UC Bookstores Holiday Open House returns in-store for 2021 November 23, 2021 Event: December 1, 2021 8:00 AM Annual UC Bookstores event is returning in-store for 2021. Faculty and staff will receive a 25% discount this year on UC emblematic apparel and gifts. Those who bring donations for the Bearcats Pantry will receive a limited edition mug. A matching coaster will be a gift with a purchase over $50. Faculty, staff can dine on campus for $6.99 on select days November 22, 2021 Faculty and staff can enjoy reduced-priced meals in the dining centers Wednesday, Nov. 24, Thursday, Dec. 9, and Friday, Dec. 10. 'Unforgettable weekend': GameDay, Homecoming help Bearcats make... November 9, 2021 The University of Cincinnati was in the national spotlight with ESPN’s College GameDay and Good Morning America featuring the UC Bearcat football team's rise in football ranking. UC defeated the University of Tulsa on the football field during Homecoming. Become a Mental Health Champion November 9, 2021 Our university community is filled with empathetic and compassionate Bearcats who care about supporting each other. Many of these individuals are designated Mental Health Champions who have gone through training to learn more about supporting student, faculty, and staff mental health. There are two graduated cohorts of about 235 faculty and staff who have earned this designation. This initiative is coordinated by Healthy UC, UC's well-being collaborative. Up next in Switch'n Kitchen: Wings and Rings November 8, 2021 Wings and Rings is the next local restaurant to move into Tangeman University Center's Switch'n Kitchen. The popular wing restaurant opens Monday, Nov. 8. and will remain in TUC through the remainder of fall semester. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top