Skip to site alert. Skip to content Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center (HICCC) - New York Refer a Patient Giving Locations Contact Make an Appointment Search About Us About Us Message from the Director Mission, Vision, and Guiding Principles About the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center The Irving Family Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion (DEI) Leadership Our Members Giving News Our 50th Anniversary Upcoming Programs and Events Contact Us HICCC Annual Report Explore the past year of cancer research and care at the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. Read the Report For Patients For Patients Find a Doctor Make an Appointment Locations What to Expect Get a Second Opinion Patient Stories Refer a Patient Keeping You Safe Video Visits Make an Appointment Our dedicated access representatives can help you make an appointment today. Make an Appointment Cancer Types and Care Cancer Types and Care Cancer Types Cancer Care Clinical Trials Cancer Types Amyloidosis Anal Cancer Bladder Cancer Brain and Spinal Tumors Breast Cancer Cervical Cancer Childhood and Adolescent Cancers Colon and Rectal Cancer Esophageal Cancer Gestational Trophoblastic Disease Head and Neck/Oral Cancers Kidney Cancer/Adrenal Cancer Leukemia Liver Cancer Lung Cancer Lymphoma Melanoma Multiple Myeloma Myelodysplastic Syndrome Ovarian Cancer Pancreatic Cancer Prostate Cancer Rare Blood Disorders Sarcoma Stomach Cancer Testicular Cancer Thyroid Cancer Uterine Cancer Vaginal Cancer Vulvar Cancer Screening and Outreach Screening and Outreach Screening and Risk Reduction Community Outreach and Engagement Screening and Risk Reduction How to Reduce the Risk of Cancer Reducing Second Cancer Risk Screening for Cancer Genetic Testing and Cancer Educational Resources Community Outreach and Engagement We work with our communities and patients to remove access barriers to cancer prevention, screening, treatment and survivorship services. Learn About Our Efforts Research Research Programs Laboratories Membership Shared Resources For Researchers Programs Cancer Genomics and Epigenomics Cancer Population Science Precision Oncology and Systems Biology Tumor Biology and Microenvironment Research Laboratories Learn about the research being pursued by members of the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. Explore Our Research Education Education Continuing Medical Education (CME) Educational Seminar Series Trainee Associate Member Program Cancer Research Training and Education Coordination Core (CRTEC) Educational Opportunities Division of Hematology/Oncology Department of Radiation Oncology Training at HICCC We're dedicated to developing the next generation of researchers and physicians through cross-disciplinary training and fellowship programs You are here Home > For Patients > Make an Appointment Find a Doctor Make an Appointment Locations What to Expect Get a Second Opinion Patient Stories Refer a Patient Keeping You Safe Video Visits Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Our team of dedicated access representatives is here to help you make an appointment with the specialists that you need. 212-305-5098 Request an Appointment Online Telehealth Services New Patient Access Center Navigating cancer care can be overwhelming. Our team of dedicated access representatives are here to help you make an appointment with the specialists that you need. Call us at 212-305-5098 to make an appointment, or fill out this form and one of our representatives will call you back at a time that is convenient for you. Regular business hours: Monday-Friday from 8 a.m. - 6 p.m. You may also leave a voicemail message after regular business hours, and we will return your call. Find a Doctor by Specialty For referring providers Columbia Cancer's New Patient Access Center makes it easy for physicians to refer patients to a Columbia Cancer specialist. Our team of dedicated access representatives are here to provide you with: Information about appointments for your patients Information about our services and clinical trials Our locations across Manhattan and Westchester Information about insurance coverage Call us at 212-305-5098 to make an appointment, or fill out this form and one of our representatives will call you back at a time that is convenient for you. Our regular business hours are Monday-Friday from 8 a.m. - 6 p.m. You may also leave a voicemail message after regular business hours, and we will return your call as soon as possible. To refer a patient directly to a physician, you can find a doctor by specialty. Have a question about clinical trials? Call our dedicated clinical trials navigator line at 212-342-5162 or email us at cancerclinicaltrials@cumc.columbia.edu. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us For Patients Cancer Types and Care Screening and Outreach Research Education Contact Us Make an Appointment Columbia University Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center 1130 St. Nicholas Avenue 2nd Floor, Room 201 New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Back to top