Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Center for Innovative Teaching and Learning Advising Finish Line Experiential Learning Credit Distance Learning Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Cross the Finish Line Were you close to graduating but had to take a break? See how we can help you earn your degree! Earn Credit for Prior Knowledge and Experience Receive Experiential Learning Credit and reduce time and expenses to graduation Distance Learning Explore resources for teaching or learning outside a traditional classroom PreviousNext Take Action Apply Now myMemphis Make A Gift Contact Us! Home Center for Innovative Teaching and Learning The Center for Innovative Teaching and Learning The Center for Innovative Teaching and Learning (CITL) supports faculty and students with innovative methods of developing, delivering, and demonstrating learning experiences. Units and programs housed within the Center include Academic Advising and Degree Planning, Finish Line, Academic Internships, Experiential Learning, UM Online, Instructional Impact, Off-Campus Centers, Professional and Continuing Education, and Public Service. Academic Advising and Degree Planning Academic Advising helps students develop and achieve life, career, personal, and academic goals through a network of professional academic advisors, faculty advisors, and leaders in academic advising. Finish Line Program Finish Line assists students who previously attended the University of Memphis and have completed 90 or more credit hours, but have regrettably had to abandon their dreams of completing a college degree. Academic advisors work with students to evaluate previously earned credit, identify all possible routes to graduation, and explore low-cost course completion strategies. Experiential Learning Credit Program Rigorous professional and/or personal development occurs in settings outside the traditional classroom. This program grants Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) to both undergraduate and graduate students who demonstrate the academic merit of such experiences, including worksite training, professional organization certification, military training, community volunteerism, and unique life. Innovating with Technology Innovation requires new ways of thinking and doing our work. Explore how software solutions are making a college degree easier to deliver. Distance Learning Distance learning is how we use modern innovations to provide learning to students both here and abroad. It also allows us to cater to students of all skill levels and ages. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/18/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.