Skip to content Clemson home Clemson home Housing Dining Clemson home Questions Contact Us Questions Contact Us Pause Play Home Welcome Home! Clemson Home Portal Sign Up For Housing Incoming Students Select a student type to begin Customize Your Experience Let us know who you are… I am a…. -Select Option- Prospective or Accepted Students Current Resident Bridge Student Family Customize Information for Live Where Your Life Happens! When you live on campus at Clemson, you’re always home and you don’t have to go far to experience the best of this community. Your backyard is where the Tigers play. Whether it’s watching a sporting event in Death Valley, Littlejohn, or Doug Kingsmore, going to a concert, taking a walk through the SC Botanical Gardens, or just throwing a frisbee on Bowman Field, there’s always something to do at Clemson. When you live on campus at Clemson, you’re always home and you don’t have to go far to experience the best of this community. Your backyard is where the Tigers play. Whether it’s watching a sporting event in Death Valley, Littlejohn, or Doug Kingsmore, going to a concert, taking a walk through the SC Botanical Gardens, or just throwing a frisbee on Bowman Field, there’s always something to do at Clemson. Residential Communities Living-Learning Communities Support at Every Step Clemson Home is always here for you. From our RAs, to our Community Directors, Residential Living & Learning team and Housing Operations staff, you always have someone to turn to when you have a question or concern. You’re never alone when you live with Clemson Home. Just check our Team page to find more information. Clemson Home is always here for you. From our RAs, to our Community Directors, Residential Living & Learning team and Housing Operations staff, you always have someone to turn to when you have a question or concern. You’re never alone when you live with Clemson Home. Just check our Team page to find more information. Live Where You Learn Clemson has everything you need for academic success. When it’s time to study, your personal library awaits, and the Academic Success Center is there to meet all your academic needs. Want a casual study space? Our residence halls have great study areas, so you can stay home and still get your work done. Clemson has everything you need for academic success. When it’s time to study, your personal library awaits, and the Academic Success Center is there to meet all your academic needs. Want a casual study space? Our residence halls have great study areas, so you can stay home and still get your work done. Always Safe, Always Home Your safety is our #1 priority. All our multilevel buildings are equipped with sprinklers and life safety systems. The University has its own police force on duty 24 hours, seven days a week and its own fire department and EMS service. Student Patrol officers walk campus nightly to ensure resident safety and Clemson Home is partnered with CUPD to enhance security. Your safety is our #1 priority. All our multilevel buildings are equipped with sprinklers and life safety systems. The University has its own police force on duty 24 hours, seven days a week and its own fire department and EMS service. Student Patrol officers walk campus nightly to ensure resident safety and Clemson Home is partnered with CUPD to enhance security. The Clemson Family You’ll meet the people here who will become your Clemson Family. Living on campus gives you opportunities to meet new people and find your new best friends. You’ll be able to participate in social and learning events in your residence hall or just meet people as you head to the dining halls for dinner. When you live on campus, you’ll never be without friends. You’ll meet the people here who will become your Clemson Family. Living on campus gives you opportunities to meet new people and find your new best friends. You’ll be able to participate in social and learning events in your residence hall or just meet people as you head to the dining halls for dinner. When you live on campus, you’ll never be without friends. Learn Where You Live When you decide to join an LLC, you are picking a community instead of a building. You can select the LLC that houses the types of people that you want to live with and offers the activities and programs you want to enjoy. This allows you to decide what your living experience is going to look like from the beginning. When you decide to join an LLC, you are picking a community instead of a building. You can select the LLC that houses the types of people that you want to live with and offers the activities and programs you want to enjoy. This allows you to decide what your living experience is going to look like from the beginning. Sustainability Clemson Home is committed to sustainability efforts that will improve the lives of our students and their futures. We participate in several sustainability initiatives both to achieve more sustainable housing practices and to teach our residents how they can do more in their own lives. Clemson Home is committed to sustainability efforts that will improve the lives of our students and their futures. We participate in several sustainability initiatives both to achieve more sustainable housing practices and to teach our residents how they can do more in their own lives. Common Links Housing Arrow link Visit Housing Move-In Arrow link Visit Move-In Housing Sign-up Arrow link Visit Housing Sign-up Parking & Transit Arrow link Visit Parking & Transit Living-Learning Communities Arrow link Visit Living-Learning Communities Information for On-campus dining options Eating on campus is easy with one of our convenient, flexible meal plans. Your meal plan includes access to dining locations across Clemson’s campus with a wide range of types of foods. In addition, our location staff and registered dietitian are here to help ensure you have a great dining experience. Eating on campus is easy with one of our convenient, flexible meal plans. Your meal plan includes access to dining locations across Clemson’s campus with a wide range of types of foods. In addition, our location staff and registered dietitian are here to help ensure you have a great dining experience. Check out what we've got to eat Housing Sign-Up Are you Tiger Town Bound and ready to make Clemson your home? Make sure you have created your Clemson University username and password, then log in to the University Housing & Dining portal to start signing up for your Clemson home. CU soon! Are you Tiger Town Bound and ready to make Clemson your home? Make sure you have created your Clemson University username and password, then log in to the University Housing & Dining portal to start signing up for your Clemson home. CU soon! Sign-up link icon Deadlines link icon Housing Portal link icon Dining Hours Arrow link Visit Dining Hours Clothes Laundry Arrow link Visit Laundry On-Campus Technology Arrow link Visit On-Campus Technology Parking & Transit Arrow link Visit Parking & Transit Tools Maintenance Arrow link Visit Maintenance Sign Up For Housing Sign-up link icon Deadlines link icon Housing Portal link icon Information for Live Where Your Life Happens! When you live on campus with Bridge to Clemson, you don’t have to go far to experience the best of this community. Your backyard is where the Tigers play. Whether it’s watching a sporting event in Death Valley, Littlejohn, or Doug Kingsmore, going to a concert, taking a walk through the SC Botanical Gardens, or just throwing a frisbee on Bowman field, there’s always something to do at Clemson. When you live on campus with Bridge to Clemson, you don’t have to go far to experience the best of this community. Your backyard is where the Tigers play. Whether it’s watching a sporting event in Death Valley, Littlejohn, or Doug Kingsmore, going to a concert, taking a walk through the SC Botanical Gardens, or just throwing a frisbee on Bowman field, there’s always something to do at Clemson. Housing Options Support at Every Step Clemson Home is always here for you. From our RAs, to our Community Directors, Residential Living & Learning team and Housing Operations staff, you always have someone to turn to when you have a question or concern. You’re never alone when you live with Clemson Home. Just check our Team page to find more information. Clemson Home is always here for you. From our RAs, to our Community Directors, Residential Living & Learning team and Housing Operations staff, you always have someone to turn to when you have a question or concern. You’re never alone when you live with Clemson Home. Just check our Team page to find more information. Live in Community Being a Bridge Student at Clemson is a unique experience and getting to live on campus is a major part of it. You’ll be able to enjoy Clemson campus life and get transportation to Tri-County Tech for your classes. The Bridge Communities are wonderful places to live and there’s always something going on! Being a Bridge Student at Clemson is a unique experience and getting to live on campus is a major part of it. You’ll be able to enjoy Clemson campus life and get transportation to Tri-County Tech for your classes. The Bridge Communities are wonderful places to live and there’s always something going on! Always Safe, Always Home Your safety is our #1 priority. All our multilevel buildings are equipped with sprinklers and life safety systems. The University has its own police force on duty 24 hours, seven days a week and its own fire department and EMS service. Student Patrol officers walk campus nightly to ensure resident safety and Clemson Home is partnered with CUPD to enhance security. Your safety is our #1 priority. All our multilevel buildings are equipped with sprinklers and life safety systems. The University has its own police force on duty 24 hours, seven days a week and its own fire department and EMS service. Student Patrol officers walk campus nightly to ensure resident safety and Clemson Home is partnered with CUPD to enhance security. The Clemson Family You’ll meet the people here who will become your Clemson Family. Living on campus gives you opportunities to meet new people and find your new best friends. You’ll be able to participate in social and learning events in your Bridge Community or just meet people as you head to the dining halls for dinner. When you live on campus, you’ll never be without friends. You’ll meet the people here who will become your Clemson Family. Living on campus gives you opportunities to meet new people and find your new best friends. You’ll be able to participate in social and learning events in your Bridge Community or just meet people as you head to the dining halls for dinner. When you live on campus, you’ll never be without friends. Learn Where You Live While you may not be taking classes at Clemson, we do have everything you need for academic success. When it’s time to study, your personal library awaits, and you’ll be living with your Bridge classmates. Want a casual study space? The Bridge Communities have great study areas, so you can stay home and still get your work done. While you may not be taking classes at Clemson, we do have everything you need for academic success. When it’s time to study, your personal library awaits, and you’ll be living with your Bridge classmates. Want a casual study space? The Bridge Communities have great study areas, so you can stay home and still get your work done. Sustainability Clemson Home is committed to sustainability efforts that will improve the lives of our students and their futures. We participate in several sustainability initiatives both to achieve more sustainable housing practices and to teach our residents how they can do more in their own lives. Clemson Home is committed to sustainability efforts that will improve the lives of our students and their futures. We participate in several sustainability initiatives both to achieve more sustainable housing practices and to teach our residents how they can do more in their own lives. Common Links Communities Arrow link Visit Communities Move-In Arrow link Visit Move-In Housing Sign-up Arrow link Visit Housing Sign-up Parking & Transit Arrow link Visit Parking & Transit Bridge to Clemson Arrow link Visit Bridge to Clemson Information for We are so happy to welcome your student home! We know watching your child grow up can be tough, but we love welcoming our new students and their parents into the Clemson family. Our goal is to offer safe, supportive, and engaging environments in which students can learn and develop. That’s why it is so exciting to have students live and grow with us at Clemson Home! We know watching your child grow up can be tough, but we love welcoming our new students and their parents into the Clemson family. Our goal is to offer safe, supportive, and engaging environments in which students can learn and develop. That’s why it is so exciting to have students live and grow with us at Clemson Home! Safety is Our #1 Priority All our multilevel buildings are equipped with sprinklers and life safety systems. The University has its own police force on duty 24 hours, seven days a week and its own fire department and EMS service. Student Patrol officers walk campus nightly to ensure resident safety and Clemson Home is partnered with CUPD to enhance security. All our multilevel buildings are equipped with sprinklers and life safety systems. The University has its own police force on duty 24 hours, seven days a week and its own fire department and EMS service. Student Patrol officers walk campus nightly to ensure resident safety and Clemson Home is partnered with CUPD to enhance security. Education is Key Clemson has everything your student needs for academic success. When it’s time to study, their personal library awaits, and the Academic Success Center is there to meet all their academic needs. Do they prefer a casual study space? Our residence halls have great study areas, so they can stay home and still get their work done. Clemson has everything your student needs for academic success. When it’s time to study, their personal library awaits, and the Academic Success Center is there to meet all their academic needs. Do they prefer a casual study space? Our residence halls have great study areas, so they can stay home and still get their work done. Learn at Home When your student decides to join an LLC, they are picking a community instead of a building. They can select the LLC that houses people with similar majors and interests and offers the activities and programs they want to enjoy. This allows them to decide what their living experience is going to look like from the beginning. When your student decides to join an LLC, they are picking a community instead of a building. They can select the LLC that houses people with similar majors and interests and offers the activities and programs they want to enjoy. This allows them to decide what their living experience is going to look like from the beginning. How Does the Housing Process Work? Students will sign up through the housing portal during set times determined by the type of student (New, Bridge, Transfer, Continuing, Summer, Spring). Housing is only guaranteed for New and Bridge (first-year) students. Students will sign up through the housing portal during set times determined by the type of student (New, Bridge, Transfer, Continuing, Summer, Spring). Housing is only guaranteed for New and Bridge (first-year) students. More Sign-Up Info link icon Upcoming Deadlines link icon Move-In Info link icon If you experience any issues accessing online content, please let us know by contacting clemsonhome@clemson.edu or 864-656-2295. Clemson home 100 Mell Hall, Box 344075 Clemson, SC 29634-4075 Hours M-F, 8 am-4:30 pm Visit our Facebook Facebook Visit our Twitter Twitter Visit our Youtube channel Youtube Visit our Instagram Instagram Visit our Pinterest Pinterest Resources Expand or collapse Resources Laundry Parking Info Web Accessibility TigerOne Info Privacy Policy Sitemap Quick Links Expand or collapse quick links Quick Links Meet Our Staff Contact Us HSP Summer Camps & Conferences Housing & Dining Cancellations Phone 864-656-2295 Fax 864-656-7615 Email clemsonhome@clemson.edu Cookies & Privacy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Accept More information