Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Spanish PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Spanish PhD Apply Request More Info Spanish PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Spanish PhD Advance your research and specialize your students in Hispanic language and culture with the Doctor of Philosophy in Spanish in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. This interdisciplinary doctoral program's curriculum is a blend of literature and linguistics, with a strong focus on individual research. Students may specialize in one of the following three areas of study. Spanish Peninsular literature Spanish American literature Hispanic linguistics In these focused programs, students explore notable literary works from medieval through contemporary periods, and their impacts on society over time. You will investigate the intricate ties between language and history, culture and politics in Spanish-speaking nations around the world. Develop a deeper understanding of the importance of linguistics and cultural empathy in fields such as healthcare and government affairs. The Spanish PhD program’s advanced coursework and research opportunities, as well as support from College of Liberal Arts faculty, prepare you for a breadth of professional pursuits. Temple’s Spanish Department has an excellent record of placing graduates as full-time faculty in public and private universities, while other students go on to pursue local and federal government positions, as well as careers in social work, healthcare, tourism and hospitality, and more. Doctoral students also have the option to pursue funded teaching assistantships. Students with a particular interest in healthcare may also add the Spanish for Health Professions Graduate Certificate, an online program that prepares professionals in healthcare fields to engage in Spanish communication with Latinx and Spanish-speaking communities. Program Format & Curriculum The Spanish PhD program requirements can be completed with 24 credits beyond the master’s degree and 54 credits beyond a bachelor’s degree. The rigorous curriculum comprises required courses, electives, a Graduate Language Examination (GLE), a comprehensive examination and research that will culminate in a written dissertation and oral defense. The GLE is administered four times per year⁠⁠—twice during the fall semester and twice during the spring semester. Catalan exams are administered by the department upon request. Register for the GLE. Students have seven years to complete the program on a part- or full-time basis, and courses are offered at Temple’s Main Campus. In addition to electives, all Spanish PhD students are required to take one course from each of the following fields. Hispanic linguistics Latin American literature Spanish Peninsular literature Learn more about the Spanish PhD program requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Anthropology PhD English MA English PhD Liberal Arts MLA Secondary Education MEd (World-Foreign Languages Education)* Spanish MA Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages MSEd* Related Graduate Certificates English Language Teaching* English as a Second Language* *College of Education and Human Development Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contacts With questions regarding the Spanish PhD, contact the following staff member. Víctor Pueyo Zoco is the graduate chair. Phone: 215-204-5129 Email: vpueyozo@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Montserrat Piera is the chair. Phone: 215-204-8285 Email: mpiera01@temple.edu Michelle Xu is an administrator in the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: xu.michelle@temple.edu Annette Vega is the program coordinator. Phone: 215-204-2877 Email: avega1@temple.edu Graduate Student Resources Academic Support Services The Student Success Center provides support for Spanish language learners. Conversation Partners Meet one-on-one with a fluent speaker of Spanish to practice speaking and listening, build vocabulary, develop grammar skills, improve reading comprehension in Spanish texts, and prepare for examinations. Writing Tutoring The writing tutoring service provides one-on-one support for students who are working on papers for classes, as well as cover letters, creative writing, résumés, scholarship essays, and any other texts students are working on in Spanish. Contact For graduate support, contact Liz Ursell, director and vice provost in the Student Success Center. Email: eursell@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Spanish PhD coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The following clubs and organizations are available to Spanish PhD students. Club de Español is a student organization, and its principal goal is to promote the practice of speaking Spanish. This is achieved through weekly conversation tables, which allow students to practice their conversation skills in a relaxed environment. Hispanic culture is celebrated all year through different student activities. The Graduate Students of Language at Temple connects students who study or have an interest in language, and it helps them form interdisciplinary networks for discussion and research. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-SPAN-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Spanish PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info