Skip to content CUIMC Home Columbia University Departments Giving Maps People Registration and Student Financial Services About Us Registrar Services Student Financial Services Faculty & Administrative Resources Student Resources Academic Calendars Graduation and Diplomas Name Change Affidavit Federal Education Rights Privacy Act - FERPA Registration Cross Registration Courseworks Withdrawals Leave of Absence Grades and Exams Transcripts Academic Certification Name Change Affidavit Graduation and Diplomas In order to be considered for a degree or certificate, all students must file an Application for Degree or Certificate. Degrees are awarded in October, February and May and, for some Health Sciences programs, June. Every candidate, regardless of graduation date, is invited to participate in the May Commencement ceremony. You may check the status of your degree application in Student Services On-Line. Please note that during peak times, it may take a week for your status to be updated in SSOL after you submit your application. For complete commencement information, please visit the official Columbia University Commencement website. Graduation Requirements You should consult with your academic advisor within your school or department to be sure all of your graduation requirements have been met. Exceptions: Doctoral and M. Phil candidates should go to their department or follow instructions from the GSAS Dissertation Office instead. Submitting the Degree/Certificate Application: You should submit the Application for Degree or Certificate by the appropriate deadline. Note: The application deadline moves to the next business day, when one of the dates below falls on a weekend or holiday Note: Doctoral students must deposit their dissertation at least a week before the conferral date in order to graduate. General Submission Deadlines Medical Center Students Graduating In: Apply By: October August 1 February December 1 May/June February 1 Diplomas will be ordered and mailed after the conferral date. It will take a few weeks to complete the process so it’s important that we have an address on file for you which will be current for at least a couple of months after graduation. If you need to update your address, you may do so via Student Services Online (SSOL) anytime through 5PM on the Monday before graduation – please be sure to select the DP (Diploma) address option. Your diploma will be sent to the DP address which is on file for you that Monday. If you would like to pick up your diploma in person in 205 Kent Hall, you may enter 'HOLD FOR PICKUP' in line 1 of the DP address field. Your diploma should be available for pickup about three weeks after graduation and we will email you when it arrives. Related Links Student Services Online (SSOL) GSAS Dissertation Office Related News Forms for Students © 2020 Columbia University | Privacy Policy | Terms and Conditions | HIPAA | General Information: 212-305-2862