Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Hall of Distinction JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Climate & the Environment Energy Geosciences Marine Geosciences Planetary Sciences & Geobiology Solid Earth & Tectonic Processes Surface & Hydrologic Processes Research Disciplines Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Advising Admissions Internal Transfers Degrees Offered Jackson Scholars Program Honors Program Financial Support Courses & Catalogs Field Experiences Why Geosciences? TNT 2021 Graduate Advising Admissions Degrees Offered EER Graduate Program Find a Supervisor Financial Support Courses & Catalogs External Grants & Scholarships Graduate Studies Committee Advising & Program Coordination Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services Career Center Geology Library Holland Family Student Center People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Chemical or Physical Hydrogeology Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Structural Geology/Tectonics JSG Community Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Research Scientists Postdocs Staff Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Desk Blogs Texas Geosciences Science Y’all In the News Scientist Profiles Newsletter 2015 Newsletter 2014 Newsletter PDF Archive Media Contacts Events DeFord Lecture Series Master’s Saturday Heads/Chairs on the Future of Undergraduate Geoscience Education Workshop Summit Materials, PowerPoints and Webcast Archive Background Reading Agenda Graduation Distinguished Lectures Association Meetings GSA 2014 SEG 2012 GSA 2012 2011 Meetings DGS Vehicle Reservation Calendar Submit an Event Skip to main content Close Search Bar Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies SearchMake a Gift About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Units Offices Contacts Diversity and Inclusion JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Graduate Advising Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services People JSG Directory Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Employment Opportunities Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Office Blogs In the News Newsletter Media Contacts Events Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Association Meetings Summits JSG Graduation Menu Home News Newsletter 2014 Newsletter Select Year 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 PDF Archive Welcome to the Jackson School of Geosciences Newsletter. A tradition since 1950, the Newsletter highlights research, news and achievements by Jackson School faculty, students, scientists and alumni. Features Opening Up As Mexico deregulates its state-run oil industry, UT-Austin expertise could play a significant role By Tracy Idell Hamilton The Congreso Mexicano del Petróleo, or Mexican... Prepping for Space Jackson School geologist trains astronauts for a trip to the International Space Station and maybe, someday, beyond By John Williams In a training room this... Dissecting a Glacier A decade of research on Thwaites Glacier has greatly advanced knowledge of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet’s potential contribution to sea level rise By Tim Green... Striking It Big With Nanotech Jackson School researchers are unlocking the mighty impacts of tiny technology for energy development and recovery By Joshua Zaffos The difference between boom and bust... Lifeless Waters Analysis reveals how limited natural buffering of Mississippi River pollution is likely contributing to Gulf of Mexico “dead zone” By John Williams “For whatever we... Ride High and Seek Texas researchers have gained an eagle-eyed view of the world thanks to a premier digital mapping tool By Joshua Zaffos Halloween was particularly scary in... Back from Totten Unbreakable ice alters research plans for UTIG researchers By Terry Britt Even when uncontrollable circumstances keep an expedition from reaching its intended landmark, it does... GeoFORCE Turns 10 Building a diverse workforce and changing young lives By Angela Curtis At first glance, the two problems may seem unrelated: The geosciences are facing a... A Classroom at the Edge of the World A journey to the Arctic, where polar bears outnumber people, the sun never sets, and the frozen tundra is a geologist’s paradise By Rose Cahalan... Briefs Drilling Deep for Fire and Ice Life on Mars Bountiful Supply Shaping the Future of Geoscience Melting from Below Drying Out Responding to the Devastation Catch a Falling Sediment Looking for Life Bringing Science, Technology and Environmental Policy Together in Latin America Student-led JSG Research Symposium Going Paleo Remote-control Submarines Redefining Relationships Battered But Not Broken Follow the Carbon Flying Colors Olympic-style Science Talking Water and Drought Jackson School Big Presence at 125th Annual GSA Dirty Water Surveying the Gulf Water-wise Power Shaking the Ground Climate Connections Profiles The World in a Grain of Sand Setting Limits on the Unknown Field Experiences South American Adventure Collision Course Field Studies in Fennoscandia Summer Field Camps Scenes From the Field In the News In the News 2013-2014 Awards & Honors Hall of Distinction Gets Two New Members Awards & Honors 2013-2014 Alumni Notes Exploration Geophysicist Robert Tatham Retires from Jackson School Undergraduate Research Fund Honors Retiring Professor Bill Carlson Scenes from the JSG and Texas Exes Alumni Scotland Trip Alumni Notes 2013-14 Alumni Events Library Report What’s New at the Walter Geology Library Donors Geology Foundation Advisory Council Memorials Dean's Welcome Dear Alumni and Friends, As you browse this year’s alumni Newsletter, I think you will agree that it has been another tremendous year of scientific discovery at the Jackson School of Geosciences. Our mission at the Jackson School is to advance understanding of the earth and its resources, systems and environment, for the lasting benefit of humankind. The work featured in this magazine is doing just that. The research you will read about shows a tremendous range of science, plus the integration of research and education. Among the highlights are the ongoing work that Don Blankenship and colleagues are doing on the West Antarctic Ice Sheet, and closer to home, Bayani Cardenas’s research on the Mississippi River’s limitations to filter out nitrates flowing to the Gulf of Mexico. Also highlighted is Mark Helper’s preparation of the next generation of astronauts to conduct field geology in space, continuing Bill Muehlberger’s legacy. And proving that big ideas can come in deceivingly small packages is the cutting-edge research on nanoparticles being conducted by BEG’s Advanced Energy Consortium, and Danny Stockli’s research teasing out a wealth of geological knowledge from a single zircon. As exciting as these projects are, they represent only a small fraction of the science being pursued at the Jackson School. To really get a feel for the breadth and depth of JSG research and student involvement, I invite you to attend one of my favorite events of the year, the student-led research symposium. I encourage you to look at the photos of the 2014 symposium at which graduate and undergraduate students displayed their research. This academic year’s symposium is Feb. 7, 2015, in the Texas Union Ballroom. Please attend. You won’t regret it. As many of you are well aware, the field of geosciences is expanding and changing rapidly. The evolving landscape offers exciting opportunities and challenges. Among the most important issues we face is how to arm young geoscientists with the skills needed to thrive in the new environment and economy. In January 2014, we hosted a National Science Foundation sponsored Summit on the Future of Undergraduate Geoscience Education to foster a dialogue on this crucial issue. The three-day summit brought together about 200 educators from R1 research universities with undergraduate programs, four-year private and state colleges and two-year community colleges. This vital work will be ongoing, but the summit was a great start. I hope you take pride in the Jackson School as you read this year’s Newsletter. You should, because none of this would be possible without the support of an active and caring network of alumni and friends. Thank you so much for helping make the Jackson School the great place it is. Sharon Mosher, Dean Mailing Address Jackson School of Geosciences 2305 Speedway Stop C1160 Austin, TX 78712-1692 Phone (512) 471-6048 Support JSG Departments & Units Department of Geological Sciences Bureau of Economic Geology Institute for Geophysics Administration & Offices College Leadership Career Services Business Services Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Office Helpful Links UT Austin UT Direct Emergency Information IT Help JSG Directory JSG Profiles Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed © 2022 Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader