Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Church 21 Menu Main Nav C21 Engage Back Back Close About Overview Focal Issues Meet the Team Committees Contact Publications Overview C21 Resources Issues C21 Book Series Programs Overview C21 Student Voices Project Agape Latte Agape Latte Valentines Breakfast with God Episcopal Visitor Program Espresso Your Faith Week C21 Speaker Series Women Religious The Catholic Intellectual Tradition GodPods A Conversation with Bishop William D. Byrne Faith Feeds Attend a Faith Feeds Event Host your own Faith Feeds Event Faith Feeds for Catholic Educators Advent Faith Feeds Breakfast with God Attend a Breakfast with God Event Host Your Own Breakfast with God Event Learn More About Breakfast with God C21 Advent Resources Along the Way: An Online Lenten Retreat A Conversation with Dan Cellucci Student Voices Project: For a Synodal Church Pray It Forward Videos & Podcasts Events Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close We Are One Body: Race and Catholicism Read the latest issue of C21 Resources Agape Latte Agape Latte is a national faith storytelling series Faith Feeds A new program for Catholics interested in connecting with one another Previous Play Pause Next The Church in the 21st Century (C21) Center at Boston College is a catalyst and resource for the renewal of the Catholic Church in the United States. Learn more about the C21 Center Stories & Updates Featured Videos Play Hosffman Ospino, Ph.D Revitalizing Our Church: Professors in the Pews The third panel in the Easter series focused on encountering ideas from lay Catholics, who are also Professors here at Boston College, on the revitalization of the Church. Play Molly Burhans Young Innovators: Revitalizing Our Church Catholic entrepreneurs, using their ideas and innovations, to revitalize the Church. Featuring guest speakers, Nell O'Leary, Marcellino D'Ambrosio, and Molly Burhans. Play Fr. Pat Nolan, S.J. Pay Attention to the Possibilities Fr. Pat Nolan, S.J. shares his story about leaving a career in the sports marketing industry in New York to enter the Society of Jesus. Events Agape Latte Faith Feeds Episcopal Visitors Breakfast with God Impact 33 C21 Resources Magazine Issues published 60 Agape Latte College and High School Partners 700 Ever to Excel students participation over the last 4 years 5K Faith Feeds Guide Downloads C21 Social Media Back To Top Back To Top C21 Center Heffernan House 110 College Road Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-0470 church21@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube The Church in the 21st Century (C21) Center at Boston College is a catalyst and resource for the renewal of the Catholic Church in the United States. Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College