Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Academics : Academic Experience Academic Experience Quick Links Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost Areas of Study Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Plan II Honors University of Texas Libraries Student Success Initiatives Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Teaching and learning are integral to our mission — and our charge to change the world. Both in and out of the classroom, we aim to encourage discussion and debate, provide opportunities for intellectual partnerships, and offer an enriching and mind-expanding experience. With more than 3,000 esteemed faculty members, dozens of highly ranked degrees and programs, incomparable campus resources, state-of-the-art facilities, an emphasis on diverse perspectives, and several special initiatives designed to boost academic success — not to mention academic and career support that extends well past commencement — UT Austin remains a leader among universities around the globe. Student Success Making sure our undergraduate students graduate in four years helps ensure they take on less debt and realize their dreams sooner. Learn more about student success Undergraduate Experience Learn to become tomorrow's innovators and problem solvers by taking advantage of our unique and diverse resources. Learn more about the undergraduate experience Graduate Education With 78 doctoral and 116 master's degree programs from engineering and business to arts, sciences and humanities, the Graduate School transforms lives. Learn more about graduate education Career Engagement Complement your academic learning with career education and experiences that support your goals for the future. Connect with employers, opportunities and resources on the Forty Acres for undergraduate and advanced degree students. Learn more about career engagement Experiential Learning Getting an education at UT Austin extends beyond the classroom. See how our newest Longhorns are learning at the Freshman Research Initiative. Learn more about experiential learning Global Experience To change the world, you have to experience it. Texas Global offers a vast array of options for students wishing to expand their horizons. Learn more Academic Support The Sanger Learning Center helps more than 20,000 students meet their goals every year through tutoring, coaching and free workshops. Learn more Upcoming Events Tuesday May 31 | 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Present/Past: The Robert Polidori Photographic Archive Briscoe Center for American History Tuesday May 31 | Noon to 5 p.m. Never Alone Gordon White Building (GWB) Wednesday June 1 | 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. Project Management Certificate Program Info Session Wednesday June 8 | 6 to 7 p.m. CELTA Information Session View all events Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022