Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Undergraduate Concentrations Focal Point Brown offers more than 80 concentrations, what some colleges call majors. You'll sample courses in a wide range of subjects before immersing yourself in one of these focused areas. Filter By Clear Program Type Program Type Concentration Certificate Academic Divisions Academic Divisions Arts and Humanities Life Sciences Physical Sciences Social Sciences Your Interests Your Interests Art, Media and Performance Community Engagement Entrepreneurship and Leadership Evaluating Human Behavior International Perspectives Learning Languages Literature and Interpretation Problem Solving Studying the Past The Natural World Life After Brown Life After Brown Arts Biological and Physical Sciences Business/Consulting Communications/Media Computer Science and Technology Elementary/Secondary-Education Engineering Finance/Banking Government Health/Medicine Higher Education Law Management Ministry Non-profit or NGO Search 85 Results based on your selections. Africana Studies A.B. The concentration in Africana Studies critically examines the artistic, historical, literary and theoretical expressions of the peoples and cultures of Africa and the African Diaspora. Department of Africana Studies Visit Program Page Open details for Africana Studies American Studies A.B. The concentration in American Studies seeks to understand American society and cultures as emerging from historical and contemporary processes at work in local, national, and global contexts. Department of American Studies Visit Program Page Open details for American Studies Anthropology A.B. Anthropology is the study of human beings from all times and all places, offering a holistic, comparative, international, and humanistic perspective. In studying and interpreting the vast range of similarities and differences in human societies and cultures, anthropologists also seek to understand how people themselves make sense of the world in which they live. Department of Anthropology Visit Program Page Open details for Anthropology Applied Mathematics A.B. Sc.B. The concentration in Applied Mathematics allows students to investigate the mathematics of problems arising in the physical, life and social sciences as well as in engineering. Division of Applied Mathematics Visit Program Page Open details for Applied Mathematics Applied Mathematics - Biology Sc.B. The Applied Math - Biology concentration recognizes that mathematics is essential to address many modern biological problems in the post genomic era. Biology Undergraduate Education Visit Program Page Open details for Applied Mathematics - Biology Applied Mathematics - Computer Science Sc.B. The Sc.B. concentration in Applied Math-Computer Science provides a foundation of basic concepts and methodology of mathematical analysis and computation and prepares students for advanced work in computer science, applied mathematics, and scientific computation. Department of Computer Science Visit Program Page Open details for Applied Mathematics - Computer Science Applied Mathematics - Economics A.B. Sc.B. The Applied Mathematics-Economics concentration is designed to reflect the mathematical and statistical nature of modern economic theory and empirical research. Department of Economics Visit Program Page Open details for Applied Mathematics - Economics Archaeology and the Ancient World A.B. The concentration in Archaeology and the Ancient World provides an opportunity to explore the multi-faceted discipline of archaeology while examining the critical early civilizations of the so-called "Old World" that is, the complex societies of the Mediterranean, Egypt, and Ancient Western Asia. Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology & the Ancient World Visit Program Page Open details for Archaeology and the Ancient World Architecture A.B. The Architecture concentration allows students to develop a broad understanding of the concepts and methods for the planning and design of buildings, landscapes, and cities. Department of History of Art and Architecture Visit Program Page Open details for Architecture Astronomy A.B. Along with Greek, Latin, and Mathematics, Astronomy counts as one of the oldest continuously taught subjects in the Brown curriculum. Department of Physics Visit Program Page Open details for Astronomy Behavioral Decision Sciences A.B. Leading to a Bachelor of Arts, the study of decision making covers descriptive questions like how people, institutions, and nations make judgments and decisions; normative questions about rationality, such as what constitutes the best judgments and decisions; and prescriptive questions, such as how the process of decision making can be improved to make actual decisions closer to optimal ones. Department of Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Visit Program Page Open details for Behavioral Decision Sciences Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Sc.B. How does life work at the molecular level? This question is at the core of the concentration program Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. Biology Undergraduate Education Visit Program Page Open details for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Biology A.B. Sc.B. The Biology concentration invites students to study, in depth and in breadth, the science of life and living matter. Biology Undergraduate Education Visit Program Page Open details for Biology Biomedical Engineering Sc.B. The Sc.B. program in Biomedical Engineering is jointly offered by the School of Engineering and the Division of Biology and Medicine as an interdisciplinary concentration designed for students interested in applying the methods and tools of engineering to the subject matter of biology and the life sciences. School of Engineering Visit Program Page Open details for Biomedical Engineering Biophysics Sc.B. Biophysics is a quantitative science that requires a significant level of competence in physics, chemistry, mathematics, and biology. Biology Undergraduate Education Visit Program Page Open details for Biophysics Business, Entrepreneurship, and Organizations A.B. Business, Entrepreneurship and Organizations (BEO) is a multidisciplinary concentration that provides a rigorous and synergistic program in the study of commercial activity grounded in economics, sociology and engineering. Visit Program Page Open details for Business, Entrepreneurship, and Organizations Chemical Physics Sc.B. Chemical Physics is an interdisciplinary field at the crossroads of chemistry and physics and is administered jointly by the two departments. Department of Chemistry Visit Program Page Open details for Chemical Physics Chemistry A.B. Sc.B. The Chemistry concentration offers courses and research opportunities that range from fundamental studies involving the characterization and preparation of synthetic and naturally occurring molecules, to interdisciplinary studies at the interfaces of chemistry with biology, medicine, physics, engineering, and nanoscience. Department of Chemistry Visit Program Page Open details for Chemistry Classics A.B. The study of Classics focuses on the languages, literature, history, culture, and legacy of Greco-Roman antiquity. Department of Classics Visit Program Page Open details for Classics Cognitive Neuroscience A.B. Sc.B. Cognitive neuroscience is the study of higher cognitive functions in humans and their underlying neural bases. Department of Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Visit Program Page Open details for Cognitive Neuroscience Cognitive Science A.B. Sc.B. The field of Cognitive Science uses scientific methods of experimentation, computational modeling, and brain imaging to study mental abilities such as perception, action, memory, cognition, speech, and language, as well as the development and evolution of those processes. Department of Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Visit Program Page Open details for Cognitive Science Comparative Literature A.B. The concentration in Comparative Literature enables students to study an illustrative range of literary topics and to develop a focused critical understanding of how cultures differ from one another and what those differences mean. Department of Comparative Literature Visit Program Page Open details for Comparative Literature Computational Biology A.B. Sc.B. Computational biology involves the analysis and discovery of biological phenomena using computational tools, and the algorithmic design and analysis of such tools. Center for Computational Molecular Biology Visit Program Page Open details for Computational Biology Computer Science A.B. Sc.B. Computer science is now a critical tool for pursuing an ever-broadening range of topics, from outer space to the workings of the human mind. Department of Computer Science Visit Program Page Open details for Computer Science Computer Science - Economics A.B. Sc.B. The joint Computer Science-Economics concentration exposes students to the theoretical and practical connections between computer science and economics. Department of Economics Visit Program Page Open details for Computer Science - Economics Contemplative Studies A.B. The concentration in Contemplative Studies investigates the underlying philosophical, psychological, and scientific bases of human contemplative experience. Contemplative Studies Initiative Visit Program Page Open details for Contemplative Studies Data Fluency Certificate The undergraduate Certificate in Data Fluency is for undergraduates who wish to gain fluency and facility with the tools of data analysis and its conceptual framework. Visit Program Page Open details for Data Fluency Development Studies A.B. Development Studies is an interdisciplinary concentration whose mission is to provide students with the knowledge, critical perspectives and skills they need to engage with the issues of economic and social development, especially as they relate to the Global South. Program in Development Studies Visit Program Page Open details for Development Studies Early Modern World A.B. The Concentration in Early Modern World promotes interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary approaches to historical cultures around the world between the waning of feudalism and the arrival of global industrial capitalism, from the 1300s to the end of the 1800s. Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Visit Program Page Open details for Early Modern World East Asian Studies A.B. East Asian Studies is a multidisciplinary concentration designed for students wishing to attain reasonable fluency in Chinese, Japanese, or Korean with specialized exposure to selected East Asian subjects. Department of East Asian Studies Visit Program Page Open details for East Asian Studies Economics A.B. The study of economics helps students understand markets, firms, financial organizations and public debate about economic policy, including taxation, government expenditure, trade, globalization, health and welfare. Department of Economics Visit Program Page Open details for Economics Education Studies A.B. Undergraduate concentrators study education in a rigorous, multi-dimensional way that allows them to investigate thorny questions of opportunity and equity in real-world settings. Department of Education Visit Program Page Open details for Education Studies Egyptology and Assyriology A.B. The concentration in Egyptology and Assyriology offers students a choice of two tracks: Assyriology or Egyptology. Department of Egyptology and Assyriology Visit Program Page Open details for Egyptology and Assyriology Engaged Scholarship Certificate The Engaged Scholarship Certificate allows students to investigate public, civic, and/or social justice issues that they are passionate about through the integration of academic study with community-based learning, research, and action. Swearer Center for Public Service Visit Program Page Open details for Engaged Scholarship Engineering A.B. Sc.B. The concentration in Engineering equips students with a solid foundation for careers in engineering, to advance the knowledge base for future technologies, and to merge teaching, scholarship, and practice in the pursuit of solutions to human needs. School of Engineering Visit Program Page Open details for Engineering Engineering and Physics Sc.B. The Sc.B. program in Engineering and Physics is sponsored jointly by the School of Engineering and the Department of Physics. School of Engineering Visit Program Page Open details for Engineering and Physics English A.B. The English Department fosters the study of British, American, and Anglophone literature—old and new—in ways that are both intensive and open. Department of English Visit Program Page Open details for English Entrepreneurship Certificate The certificate program in entrepreneurship provides curricular structure for undergraduates who wish to make entrepreneurship an important part of their intellectual journey at Brown. School of Engineering Visit Program Page Open details for Entrepreneurship Environmental Studies A.B. Sc.B. Many of the most pressing challenges of the 21st Century are environmental ones. Institute for Environment & Society Visit Program Page Open details for Environmental Studies Ethnic Studies A.B. Ethnic Studies is an interdisciplinary, comparative concentration that examines the construction of race and ethnicity in social, cultural, historical, political, and economic contexts. Department of American Studies Visit Program Page Open details for Ethnic Studies French and Francophone Studies A.B. The concentration in French and Francophone Studies is committed to the pursuit of an interdisciplinary, linguistically rigorous, and textually informed understanding of French and Francophone literatures and cultures. Department of French Studies Visit Program Page Open details for French and Francophone Studies Gender and Sexuality Studies A.B. Gender and Sexuality Studies is an interdisciplinary concentration that examines the construction of gender and sexuality in social, cultural, political, economic, or scientific contexts. Pembroke Center Visit Program Page Open details for Gender and Sexuality Studies Geological Sciences A.B. Sc.B. Geological science involves study of the composition, histories, and processes shaping the Earth and other planets. Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Visit Program Page Open details for Geological Sciences Geology - Biology A.B. Sc.B. Geology-Biology investigates the Earth’s climate, surface environments, and life, and how they interact and influence one another through time. Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Visit Program Page Open details for Geology - Biology Geology - Chemistry A.B. Sc.B. Geochemistry concentrators apply chemical principles and approaches to investigate processes that operate on and within the Earth and other planets. Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Visit Program Page Open details for Geology - Chemistry Geology - Physics/Mathematics A.B. Sc.B. Geophysics concentrators apply physical and mathematical principles and approaches to investigate processes that operate on and within the Earth and other planets. Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Visit Program Page Open details for Geology - Physics/Mathematics German Studies A.B. German Studies exposes students to the language, literature, and culture of the German speaking areas of Central Europe. Department of German Studies Visit Program Page Open details for German Studies Health and Human Biology A.B. Health and Human Biology is an interdisciplinary concentration that provides a rigorous foundation in the biological sciences with substantive course work in humanities and social sciences within a subfield of Human Health and Disease. Biology Undergraduate Education Visit Program Page Open details for Health and Human Biology Hispanic Literatures and Cultures A.B. Spanish is the second most widely spoken language in the world and the second language of the United States. In our society, knowing Spanish is not just an asset; it is increasingly a necessity. Department of Hispanic Studies Visit Program Page Open details for Hispanic Literatures and Cultures History A.B. History is the study of how societies and cultures across the world change over time. History concentrators learn to write and think critically, and to understand issues from a variety of perspectives. Department of History Visit Program Page Open details for History History of Art and Architecture A.B. The concentration in History of Art and Architecture introduces students to the history of art, architecture, and visual culture. Department of the History of Art and Architecture Visit Program Page Open details for History of Art and Architecture Independent Concentration A.B. Sc.B. The Independent Concentration program is for exceptionally dedicated students who are willing to spend extra time and effort creating a “new” concentration, representing a coherent field of study that Brown does not offer. Independent Concentrations Visit Program Page Open details for Independent Concentration International and Public Affairs A.B. The concentration in International and Public Affairs equips students with the knowledge and skills necessary to be engaged global citizens. Program in International and Public Affairs Visit Program Page Open details for International and Public Affairs International Relations A.B. The objective of the International Relations concentration is to foster creative thinking about pressing global problems and to equip students with the analytic tools, language expertise, and cross-cultural understanding to guide them in that process. International Relations Program Visit Program Page Open details for International Relations Italian Studies A.B. Inherently interdisciplinary, the Italian Studies concentration allows students to strengthen their language skills in Italian and deepen their knowledge of Italian literature, history, art, and culture. Department of Italian Studies Visit Program Page Open details for Italian Studies Judaic Studies A.B. Jews have lived and flourished over thousands of years in a variety of social contexts, stretching from the Land of Israel and the eastern Mediterranean to Asia, Africa, Europe, and the Americas. Concentrators will have the opportunity to study Jews in these contexts, getting to know their social structures, and what they have created. Program in Judaic Studies Visit Program Page Open details for Judaic Studies Latin American and Caribbean Studies A.B. The concentration in Latin American and Caribbean Studies (LACA) leads to a strong, interdisciplinary understanding of culture, history, and contemporary issues in Latin America, the Caribbean, and the Latino/a diaspora. Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies Visit Program Page Open details for Latin American and Caribbean Studies Linguistics A.B. Sc.B. Language is a uniquely human capacity that enables us to communicate a limitless set of messages on any topic. While human languages can differ greatly in certain respects, all are intricate, complex, rule-governed systems. Department of Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Visit Program Page Open details for Linguistics Literary Arts A.B. Brown's Program in Literary Arts provides a home for innovative writers of fiction, poetry, playwriting, screenwriting, literary translation, electronic writing and mixed media. Program in Literary Arts Visit Program Page Open details for Literary Arts Mathematics A.B. Sc.B. Mathematics is a grouping of sciences, including geometry, algebra, and calculus, that study quantity, structure, space, and change. Department of Mathematics Visit Program Page Open details for Mathematics Mathematics - Computer Science Sc.B. Students may opt to pursue an interdisciplinary Bachelor of Science degree in Math-Computer Science, a concentration administered cooperatively between the mathematics and computer science departments. Department of Computer Science Visit Program Page Open details for Mathematics - Computer Science Mathematics - Economics A.B. The Mathematics Economics concentration is designed to give a background in economic theory plus the mathematical tools needed to analyze and develop additional theoretical constructions. Department of Economics Visit Program Page Open details for Mathematics - Economics Medieval Cultures A.B. The program in Medieval Studies offers a concentration in Medieval Cultures with two tracks with distinct foci: one in Medieval Cultures and the other in Late Antique Cultures. Program in Medieval Studies Visit Program Page Open details for Medieval Cultures Middle East Studies A.B. The concentration in Middle East Studies (MES) seeks to build a strong, interdisciplinary understanding of historical and contemporary issues within the Middle East, broadly defined. Middle East Studies Visit Program Page Open details for Middle East Studies Modern Culture and Media A.B. Modern Culture and Media (MCM) is an interdisciplinary concentration that explores the ties between media and broader cultural and social formations. Department of Modern Culture and Media Visit Program Page Open details for Modern Culture and Media Music A.B. The concentration in Music integrates theory, history, ethnomusicology, technology, composition, and performance. Department of Music Visit Program Page Open details for Music Neuroscience Sc.B. Neuroscience is an interdisciplinary field that seeks to understand the functions and diseases of the nervous system. Department of Neuroscience Visit Program Page Open details for Neuroscience Philosophy A.B. The Philosophy concentration offers courses covering subjects from the philosophy of religion to the philosophies of science and literature. Department of Philosophy Visit Program Page Open details for Philosophy Physics A.B. Sc.B. Physics is the scientific study of the fundamental principles governing the behavior of matter and the interaction of matter and energy. Department of Physics Visit Program Page Open details for Physics Physics and Philosophy A.B. The Physics and Philosophy concentration is for students with a deep interest in physics who do not need to acquire the laboratory and computational skills of a professional physicist. Department of Physics Visit Program Page Open details for Physics and Philosophy Political Science A.B. Why do Hindus and Muslims live in harmony in one city and fight bitterly in another just a few miles away? Why is the U.S. the only industrialized nation without a complete national health insurance? Department of Political Science Visit Program Page Open details for Political Science Portuguese and Brazilian Studies A.B. Portuguese and Brazilian Studies examines the Portuguese-speaking world, a large and diverse geographical and cultural area spread over five continents. Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Visit Program Page Open details for Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Psychology A.B. Sc.B. Psychology encompasses a range of phenomena and levels of analysis in pursuit of three goals: to deepen our understanding of cognitive and neural mechanisms of sensation, perception, learning, and emotion; to probe the biological and evolutionary foundations of behavior; and to clarify the social perception and assessment of individuals and groups. Department of Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Visit Program Page Open details for Psychology Public Health A.B. Public Health is an interdisciplinary concentration through which students examine a variety of health issues, including population health and disease, health policy, cross-cultural and international aspects of health, the organizational and social structures through which health services are delivered and received, and the public health system. School of Public Health Visit Program Page Open details for Public Health Public Policy A.B. Housed in the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs, the concentration in public policy is organized around the interdisciplinary and comparative study of human societies, but with a particular focus on the rules and norms by which we govern ourselves. Public Policy Visit Program Page Open details for Public Policy Religious Studies A.B. Religious Studies explores religious thought and practice in various historical, political, cultural, and social contexts in order to understand and interpret societies and cultures throughout the world. Department of Religious Studies Visit Program Page Open details for Religious Studies Science, Technology, and Society A.B. Science, Technology, and Society (STS, formerly Science and Society) is an interdisciplinary concentration that examines the processes of scientific discovery and the establishment of scientific policies and systems of belief from historical, philosophical, anthropological, and sociological perspectives. Program in Science, Technology, and Society Visit Program Page Open details for Science, Technology, and Society Slavic Studies A.B. Slavic Studies is concerned with the languages, literatures, and civilizations of the Slavic world. Department of Slavic Studies Visit Program Page Open details for Slavic Studies Social Analysis and Research Sc.B. The Sc.B. concentration in Social Analysis and Research provides both a conceptual and a working knowledge of the techniques for data collection and analysis used for social research in academic and non-academic environments. Department of Sociology Visit Program Page Open details for Social Analysis and Research Sociology A.B. The concentration in Sociology (leading to a Bachelor of Arts) provides a foundation in sociological theory and methods and the opportunity to cultivate more specialized knowledge in the discipline's substantive interests. Department of Sociology Visit Program Page Open details for Sociology South Asian Studies A.B. The diversity and shared histories of South Asia's cultures, religions, languages, and nations are an important area of engagement in the world today. Center for Contemporary South Asia Visit Program Page Open details for South Asian Studies Statistics Sc.B. The Bachelor of Science degree in Statistics is designed to provide foundations that include basic statistical concepts and methodologies, and to expose students to the role of statistical thinking and analysis in interdisciplinary research and in the public sphere. Department of Biostatistics Visit Program Page Open details for Statistics Theatre Arts and Performance Studies A.B. The Department of Theatre Arts and Performance Studies (TAPS) is the intellectual and artistic center for the aesthetic, historical, literary, practical, and theoretical explorations of performance in global perspective — theatre, dance, speech, time-based art, and even performative "roles" in everyday life. Department of Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Visit Program Page Open details for Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Urban Studies A.B. The Urban Studies program teaches students to analyze the city, urban life, and urbanization through a variety of disciplinary lenses. Department of Urban Studies Visit Program Page Open details for Urban Studies Visual Art A.B. The Visual Art concentration engages in artistic practice across a wide range of media: painting, sculpture, printmaking, drawing, photography, and digital imaging. Department of Visual Art Visit Program Page Open details for Visual Art Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search