Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Honors College Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Menu About Us Message from the Director BIC Statement on Racism BIC on Social Media BIC Blog Contact Us Prospective Students Why BIC? What is the BIC? BIC Courses Course Structure Would BIC work with my major? BIC & Other Programs BIC & Honors Programs BIC and Business BIC & Pre-Law BIC & Pre-Med Opportunities in BIC Leadership Connect with Alumni Excursions FAQs Meet the BIC Scholarships Chances to Visit Apply Current Students BIC Advising Major Academic Planners(MAPs) 2017-2018 MAPs By Degree Plan 2017-2018 MAPs By Department 2018-2019 MAPs by Degree Plan 2018-2019 MAPs by Department 2019-2020 MAPs by Degree Plan 2019-2020 MAPs by Department 2020-2021 MAPs by Degree Plan 2020-2021 MAPs by Department 2021-2022 MAPs by Degree Plan 2021-2022 MAPs by Department Peer Instructors and Examined Life Mentors Peer Instructors - World Cultures Peer Instructors- Rhetoric Examined Life Mentors BIC Leadership Council Study Abroad Archaeology Research in Italy Baylor in Greece and Turkey Research and Graduate School Opportunities Connect with Alumni Frame/s Student Publication BIC Student News Faculty & Staff Faculty Profiles Affiliated BIC Faculty Administration Profiles Alumni You are Invited Stay Connected Get Involved BIC Alumni Advisory Board Apply Now 25 Years of BIC History of the BIC People Oral History Interviews Historical Timeline Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Interdisciplinary Curriculum - Global Perspective - Academic Community The Baylor Interdisciplinary Core explores the interrelation of humanities and social sciences, providing students with a broad context to understand the contemporary world. Exploring literature and thought from around the world, BIC students receive a global education that prepares them to thrive in any field. Explore Prospective Students Check out the BIC! Our students praise the close-knit community, the amazing BIC professors, and the stimulating classes. Find out if BIC would be a good fit for you! Prospective Students Current Students Your BIC resources are here. Find information about Advising, MAPs, Study Abroad, Leadership Council, Peer Instructors, Mentors and more! Current Students Alumni BIC has multiple opportunities for alumni to reconnect with BIC students, faculty/staff, and other alumni. We would love to get you involved! Alumni Celebrating 25 Years of BIC In the early 1990s, administrators and professors of Baylor University formed a committee to develop an interdisciplinary core curriculum. The committee developed specific strategies to accomplish this goal and in 1995, the BIC accepted its first cohort where 200 students began their journey through the new program. Since then, with some adjustments, BIC has experienced 25 years of successfully welcoming new students and sending out world leaders. It is exciting to see the myriad of accomplishments associated with the BIC education and to look forward to those that lie ahead. Thank you for becoming part of the unfolding history of the BIC. Learn More About Our Celebration Profiles Read More Profiles Hannah Rose Hunt Student "In my experience, I have found that BIC has the best professors, hardest working and most critical thinking students at Baylor." Dr. Davide Zori Faculty "I find the interaction with BIC students to be the most rewarding part of teaching. I most enjoy the classes where I can feel the enthusiasm for a primary text building as we peel back the layers of a text. " Courtney Davis Alumni "As a BIC student, I developed a love for interdisciplinary learning and realized that I did not have to limit my interest to one academic discipline or subject." News Read More News Apr. 28, 2022 Alumni Interviews — Shanna Van Wagner (’07) With each year that passes there are more and more BIC graduates doing great work all over the world. Today we are excited to post an interview with Shanna Van Wagner (’07). We hope you enjoy, and if you are interested in being interviewed for a future blog post, email us at BIC@baylor.edu. Read More Mar. 15, 2022 Alumni Interviews — Matthew Pierce (’09) With each year that passes there are more and more BIC graduates doing great work all over the world. Today we are excited to post an interview with Matthew Pierce (’09), who is also a member of our inaugural BIC Alumni Advisory Board. Read More Mar. 15, 2022 Three Baylor Students Named Truman Finalists Three Honors College juniors, including BIC student Veronica Penales, were named finalists for the Truman Scholarship, announced this month by the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation. Awarded each year to recognize college juniors who demonstrate leadership, academic excellence, and a commitment to public service, the Truman Scholarship honors the legacy of President Harry S. Truman and offers $30,000 for graduate study to one student from each state. Read More Feb. 8, 2022 Alumni Interviews — Arianna Gomez Lopez (’18) With each year that passes there are more and more BIC graduates doing great work all over the world. Each year we publish brief Alumni Updates where our alumni can tell us some about their post-BIC lives. In addition to these annual updates, we post interviews with our alumni. Today we are excited to post an interview with Arianna Gomez Lopez (’18). We hope you enjoy, and if you are interested in being interviewed for a future blog post, email us at BIC@baylor.edu. Read More Follow Us on Social Media Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Morrison Hall 231 One Bear Place #97350 Waco, TX 76798-7350 (254) 710-3981 bic@baylor.edu ApplyVisitMake a GiftBIC BlogHonors CollegeHonors Residential College General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Message from the Director BIC Statement on Racism BIC on Social Media BIC Blog Contact Us Prospective Students Why BIC? What is the BIC? BIC Courses Course Structure Would BIC work with my major? BIC & Other Programs BIC & Honors Programs BIC and Business BIC & Pre-Law BIC & Pre-Med Opportunities in BIC Leadership Connect with Alumni Excursions FAQs Meet the BIC Scholarships Chances to Visit Apply Current Students BIC Advising Major Academic Planners(MAPs) 2017-2018 MAPs By Degree Plan 2017-2018 MAPs By Department 2018-2019 MAPs by Degree Plan 2018-2019 MAPs by Department 2019-2020 MAPs by Degree Plan 2019-2020 MAPs by Department 2020-2021 MAPs by Degree Plan 2020-2021 MAPs by Department 2021-2022 MAPs by Degree Plan 2021-2022 MAPs by Department Peer Instructors and Examined Life Mentors Peer Instructors - World Cultures Peer Instructors- Rhetoric Examined Life Mentors BIC Leadership Council Study Abroad Archaeology Research in Italy Baylor in Greece and Turkey Research and Graduate School Opportunities Connect with Alumni Frame/s Student Publication BIC Student News Faculty & Staff Faculty Profiles Affiliated BIC Faculty Administration Profiles Alumni You are Invited Stay Connected Get Involved BIC Alumni Advisory Board Apply Now 25 Years of BIC History of the BIC People Oral History Interviews Historical Timeline