Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Overview University Facts Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Maps & Directions University Facts Cornell by the numbers. 50 Nobel laureates affiliated with Cornell as faculty members or alumni 20% of Ithaca campus’s net annual electricity from renewables Since 2008, Cornell has certified 26 green buildings on campus, including 5 LEED Platinum Buildings Cornell Firsts The solution to the Poincaré Conjecture, one of the most famous problems in mathematics, was first posted on Cornell's arXiv.org. Cornell endowed the nation's first professorships in American history, musicology, and American literature. Cornell established the first four-year schools of hotel administration and industrial and labor relations. Cornell awarded the world's first degree in journalism, the nation's first degree in veterinary medicine, and the first doctorates in electrical and industrial engineering. Cornell was the first U.S. university to offer a major in American studies. The first university to teach modern Far Eastern languages, Cornell’s Department of Asian Studies today teaches 19 classical and modern Asian languages. Statistics Overview Founded 1865 By Ezra Cornell and Andrew Dickson White. Opened 1868 Morrill Hall was the first building constructed on the main Ithaca campus, which today includes 608 buildings on more than 2000 acres. Identity Private university, public mission Cornell is the federal land-grant institution of New York State, a private endowed university, a member of the Ivy League/Ancient Eight, and a partner of the State University of New York. It has been described as the first truly American university because of its founders' revolutionarily egalitarian and practical vision of higher education, and is dedicated to its land-grant mission of outreach and public service. Colleges and schools 16 Nine undergraduate units and four graduate and professional units in Ithaca, two medical graduate and professional units in New York City, and one in Doha, Qatar. Faculty and Staff, Fall 2020 Faculty 1,695 Academic Professionals 1,129 Staff 7,420 Regular and part-time faculty and employees. Staff include non-professorial academic employees (instruction, research, extension, and library) and non academic employees. Ithaca campus only (includes Cornell Tech). Student Enrollment, Fall 2021 Undergraduate 15,503 Graduate 7,101 Professional 2,978 Total university 25,582 Student enrollment include all on-campus and off campus registrants and participants in employee degree programs. Students registered as in absentia are not included. Ithaca campus only (includes Cornell Tech). "Professional" schools are Law, Johnson School of Management and the Veterinary School. Student Gender, Ethnicity and Citizenship, Fall 2021 Female Male Minority International Undergraduates 54% 46% 49% 10% Graduate 49% 51% 21% 50% Professional 49% 51% 25% 37% "Minority" includes Asian, Black, Hispanic, American Indian and multi-racial students who are U.S. citizens or legal residents. Ithaca campus only (includes Cornell Tech). Student Region of Origin, Fall 2021 New York State 30% Middle States 11% New England 6% Midwest 5% South 7% Southwest 3% West 10% Territories <1% USA, unknown 2% International 24% Includes undergraduate, graduate, and professional students. Ithaca campus only (includes Cornell Tech). Student home region at time of matriculation. "Middle States" region includes Maryland, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware and Washington D.C. Degrees Conferred, 2020–2021 Bachelor's degrees 3,849 Master's degrees 2,888 PhD, JSD and DMA 476 D.V.M. 107 J.D. 194 Total university 7,514 Degrees granted from July 1 - to June 30th. Ithaca and Roosevelt Island (Cornell Tech) campuses only. Data as of 6/30/2021 Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube