Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Depression Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Columbia Psychiatry Launches Mobile Depression App A new digital support tool, Columbia Psychiatry Pathways, strengthens the ability of clinicians to provide critical mental health services for individuals with major depression. Topic Mental Health Bullying and Children: What Parents Need to Know October is National Bullying Prevention Month and Anne Marie Albano, PhD, an expert in child and adolescent psychology, explains how parents can recognize bullying and help their children. Topic Mental Health Mother’s Day Advice about Mental Health from Doctor Mom Primary care physicians can help women deal with anxiety and depression, which are on the rise even as COVID cases decline, says Columbia physician Dr. Arthi Reddy. Topic Campus News What to Do About Self-Care Fatigue Columbia psychiatrist Lourival Baptista-Neto, MD, has tips for overcoming self-care fatigue and what to do when you're feeling overwhelmed. Topic Campus News Latest News “One of Us” Offers Solutions on Physician Suicide September 21, 2020 A panel discussion held in observance of National Physician Suicide Awareness Day on Sept. 17 highlighted the legacy of Dr. Lorna Breen and the ongoing fight to curb physician suicide. Topic Campus News At Height of COVID, Nurses and Doctors Reported High Levels of Distress June 23, 2020 During the height of the COVID-19 pandemic in New York City, health care workers on the front lines had high levels of acute stress, anxiety, and depression. Topic Infectious Diseases Though Few in Number, Young Neurons Have Big Impact May 13, 2019 Though few in number, neurons that are created in the brain during adulthood have an outsized impact on mood and memory because of their unparalleled networking and communication abilities. Topic Mental Health A Moody Gut Often Accompanies Depression—New Study Helps Explain Why May 7, 2019 A new study suggests that depression and GI trouble sometimes spring from the same source—low serotonin—and identifies a potential treatment that could ease both conditions. Topic Gastroenterology To Head Off Late-Life Depression, Check Your Hearing January 2, 2019 A new study of elderly Hispanics found that hearing loss increased the risk of depression symptoms. Topic Aging Popular Alzheimer’s Drug Not Effective for Patients with Depression August 2, 2018 A new clinical trial suggests that donepezil does not improve cognitive performance in people with mild cognitive impairment who also have clinical depression. Topic Alzheimer's One-Third of Adults Use Medications That May Raise Risk of Depression June 13, 2018 Adults taking medications with depression as a side effect were more likely to have depression, and the risk increased with the number of medications taken, a new study has found. Topic Psychiatry Teen Depression: New Guidelines Promote Universal Screening April 27, 2018 Columbia psychiatrist Rachel Zuckerbrot, MD, talks about new screening guidelines she co-authored to help pediatricians detect and treat depression in adolescents. Topic Psychiatry Suicidal Thoughts in Depressed Patients Rapidly Reduced with Ketamine December 15, 2017 Ketamine can reduce suicidal thoughts in depressed patients within hours of administration, a new study from Columbia Psychiatry has found. Topic Psychiatry Depression Is on the Rise in the U.S., Especially Among Young Teens October 31, 2017 From 2005 to 2015, depression rose significantly among Americans age 12 and older, according to researchers at the Mailman School of Public Health and CUNY. Topic Mental Health Pages 1 2 3 4 next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top