Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News You are here Home > Education > Academic Sections/Divisions > Section of Cariology and Restorative Sciences > Division of Endodontics Division of Endodontics Unit Head Sahng Gyoon Kim, DDS Director, Postdoctoral Program, Division of Endodontics Established in 1965, the Division of Endodontics is an integral part of Columbia University’s College of Dental Medicine. The Division is responsible for education, research, and patient care within the field of Endodontics. Learn more about the establishment of the division in the video on the page below. Education The Division is involved in predoctoral education through a planned sequence of advanced courses and supervised clinical training. Students learn: The principles of diagnosis and treatment planning The principles of cleaning, shaping and obturating canals The biologic basis behind the steps in endodontic therapy The issues involved in treating resorption and trauma The pharmacology, histology, and biology of the pulp The use of rotary files The goal is to make each student a qualified dentist with sound biomedical knowledge combined with competent clinical skills in endodontics. The Postdoctoral Endodontics Program educates students through a planned sequence of advanced courses and supervised clinical training to make the student a qualified endodontist with sound biomedical knowledge combined with proficient clinical skills. The postdoctoral endodontic students provide advanced endodontic procedures for patients throughout the College of Dental Medicine. Postdoctoral students take core courses with postdoctoral students of other specialties. Interdisciplinary seminars in treatment planning and sequencing allow for much cross fertilization and collaboration that carries over to the clinical setting. Students are all involved in endodontic research. The Division offers one-week externships for third and fourth year dental students, as well as a postdoctoral externship for foreign trained dentists. Patient Care Several of the faculty endodontists practice with ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry, the faculty practice of the College of Dental Medicine. The Division of Endodontics also provides treatment for children and adults at the College of Dental Medicine's Teaching Clinics. Graduate dentists in specialty training provide care with the assistance and supervision of faculty specialists. Research Our faculty is involved in scientific research within the field of endodontics. This involves supervision of student research, collaboration with other dental modalities and promotion of ideas that can lead to meaningful projects. Current research projects include a retrospective study of the outcome of endodontic surgery, an epidemiological study of endodontic surgery, evaluation of pulp vitality testing, prospective and retrospective assessment of clinical pulp regeneration, apical transportation of different rotary file systems, analysis of anatomical structures using CBCT, and dental pulp regeneration by “cell homing”. Regeneration techniques for the pulp space as well as the attachment apparatus are constantly being explored and tested. Associated Postdoctoral Programs Postdoctoral Endodontics Program Postdoctoral Externship for Foreign Trained Dentists History of the Division of Endodontics Fifty years ago, Joseph Leavitt, DDS '40, and Irving Naidorf, DDS '41 were driven to establish the Endodontics Division by a desire to save teeth. Marc Leavitt, CDM board member and son of Dr. Leavitt, produced this video to honor their seminal work as well as the memory of his father. Faculty Mona Boside, DDS B. Gunnar Hasselgren, DDS, PhD Priscilla Konecky, DDS Jocelyn Magahis, DDS Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top