Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Information Technology Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Resources For I Want To Services Security and Privacy About Students Alumni Faculty Retirees Researchers Visitors Staff Access My Email Log in to LionMail Log in to ADCU Outlook Web App Log in to CUIMC Email Check CUIT Service Alerts Connect to Columbia WiFi Contact the CUIT Service Desk Download Software Log in to CourseWorks Manage My University ID (UNI) Activate My UNI or Email Change My Password Manage My Duo MFA Account Print on Campus Use Zoom View Computer and System Recommendations Visit the ServiceNow Customer Portal Academic Systems Accounts and Access Administrative Systems Cloud Services Computer Lab and Classroom Technologies Email and Calendar Endpoint Device Technologies IT Professional Services Network and Wireless Research Services Security and Risk Management Servers, Backup and Storage Service Desk Software and Apps Telephony and Communications Services Web Services Anti-malware CUIT Security Downloads Data Security Guidelines for International Travel Get Started with Computer Security at Columbia General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Handling Personally Identifying Information Keep Your Operating System Up To Date Phishing: Recognize and Report Secure Resources for Systems Administrators Using Strong Passwords Staff Directory and Org. Chart Senior Leadership Departments Locations IT Policies and Strategies IT Partners at the University Careers Columbia University Information Technology You are here: Home I Want To Download Software Download Software Software available to the Columbia University community, for free or at Columbia's negotiated rate. Computer Security Software CUSpider Windows application for scanning for Personally Identifiable Information (PII) such as Social Security numbers. PC PhoneHome Software that can help recover a lost or stolen laptop. Malwarebytes Virus and spyware scanning program. Secure Shell and File Transfer Software PuTTY PuTTY is an easy-to-use telnet and SSH program for Windows computers. MacOS X Terminal The MacOS X terminal includes SSH, which allows Macs to make secure connections to Unix computers. QWS3270 Secure v4.85 Click to download application for Mainframe access with SSH. WinSCP Secure FTP program, recommended by CUIT for file transfers to the cunix.cc.columbia.edu server. Cyberduck Secure FTP software that can be used on a Mac. Mathematical/Statistical Software Access these programs remotely by connecting to a CUIT computer lab Altair For engineering, design and analytical work. Mathematica For scientific, engineering, mathematical, and technical computing fields. Matlab For algorithm development, data visualization and analysis. SAS For data entry, management and warehousing, statistical and quality improvement analysis, and forecasting. SPSS For statistical analysis, also known as IBM SPSS Statistics. Stata For data management, statistical analysis, simulations, regression, and custom programming. Research Services Software LabArchives Paperless research notebook and lab manual solution for Columbia's researchers. SnapGene Molecular biology software for planning, visualizing, and documenting procedures. Columbia University maintains a license agreement with Microsoft to distribute several Microsoft products and product upgrades to specific campus groups and organizations. There are two download options: laptop icon Personal Desktop/Laptop Downloads Eligible groups*: CU undergraduate students CU graduate students (including CUIMC, SIPA, and Law School) CBS students should visit the Business School student page instead Full-time employees (including Officers of Instruction, Officers of Research, and Staff) ...can download Microsoft Office (includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and more) and install it on up to 5 computers or devices for free. Navigate to www.office.com. Select Sign in. Enter your [email protected] account address (e.g. [email protected]), and select Next. Enter your same [email protected] account address and your standard UNI password, and select Sign in. Authenticate with the Duo MFA action of your choice. If you have not yet set up Duo, you can create a Duo account and learn more about Duo. If a "First Run Experience" window opens up, you can close it by clicking the X in the corner. Select Install Office in the upper-right corner. Choose Office 365 Apps from the drop-down menu. After the software download is complete, install it as you normally would. When prompted by the software to sign in to your Office 365 account, use your [email protected] account that you used in Steps 3 and 4. Note: The license assigned to your account allows you the ability to download Microsoft Office, install it on your machine and activate it using your [email protected] account. It does not give access to Office.com online or cloud services like One Note and One Drive. university icon Columbia-owned Desktop/Laptop Downloads Eligible groups*: Employees of CU, Barnard College, Teachers College, and Union Theological Seminary CUIMC and Columbia Business School students with CU devices for research/academic purposes ...can download the following products for free by clicking the links below: Office 2016, 2013 for Windows and Office 2019, 2021 for Macs Project and Visio — See information below for eligible groups Windows 7 Enterprise Windows 8.1 Enterprise Windows 10 and 11 Enterprise Windows 2019 Windows Server 2019 All Microsoft licenses for the software downloaded from the CUIT site are authorized every 90 days by the CUIT KMS server. For authorization, the devices must either be physically on campus or you must be logged in to the CUIT VPN. *Given the complexity of the University population, ineligible groups are specified below. Expand all Collapse all Important notes for MS downloads to personal devices *Ineligible University students The following student groups are not eligible for the Microsoft Campus Agreement software: Barnard College students Teachers College students Union Theological Seminary (UTS) students All High School Programs (Including all non-degree program students) All Alumni (Not currently enrolled in an eligible program) All Columbia Business School (CBS) students should not use Columbia's Microsoft Software Portal, and should instead visit the Business School student page. Before installing new software CUIT recommends that you back up all of your important work prior to any new software downloads. Although unlikely, there is always the possibility of data loss while performing a new installation. Note that CUIT does not provide installation or tech support for your personal computers. If you need further assistance, visit Microsoft's Office installation page. Troubleshooting Problem: I am getting an error message that says, "Your account [email protected] doesn't allow editing on a Mac. To learn more, contact your administrator about your Office plan." Solution: We are sorry for the inconvenience caused by this. This is a known issue, but a fix has been issued by Microsoft. Step 1: Ensure you have been assigned the correct Office license. Log in to the Office 365 portal. Select View Subscriptions. Under the Licenses section, make sure you have been assigned the latest desktop version of Office. Step 2: Ascertain you are connected to the internet. Step 3: Clear Office credential caches. Quit all Office applications and open Finder > Applications > Utilities > Keychain Access. Remove Microsoft Office Identities Cache 2 and Microsoft Office Identities Settings 2. Step 4: Sign in to Office and reactivate it with your account. Select the Library folder and open Group Containers. Select the folders (if present): UBF8T346G9.ms, UBF8T346G9.Office, and BF8T346G9.OfficeOsfWebHost, and move them to Trash. Restart your Mac, open Microsoft Word for Mac, and sign in using your account. If the problem persists, please provide us with the detailed steps (including screenshots) on how you encountered the issue and the message on your Mac, so we can better understand your situation and help you. Reference: I suddenly can't edit my documents (Mac) Expand all Collapse all Eligibility for MS downloads to CU-owned devices Ineligible University affiliates The following CU affiliates are not covered under the Microsoft Campus License Agreement: Alumni (including recent graduates) Retirees (either Faculty or Staff retirees) Visiting Scholars Some types of employees, including consultants, contractors, temporary staff, and casual employees, are also not covered Employees eligible for Microsoft Project and Visio Employees of the following school and departments can download Project and Visio on their Columbia-owned devices: Columbia Business School Columbia Law School Earth Institute Facilities Arden House Campus Operations - Custodial Services Campus Operations - Nevis Campus Operations - Trade Services Capital Project Management CUIMC Res Properties Executive VP Facilities & Operations Finance & Administration Maintenance & Oper Ldg Manhattanville Morningside Utilities Plant Engineering & Utilities Powerhouse Public Safety - Morningside Real Estate Residential Operations Space Planning & Management Finance CUIT Executive VP for Finance and IT Office of the Controller Office of Internal Audit Office of the Treasurer Office of University Budget Office of University Investments Procurement Services Office of Alumni and Development Office of Public Affairs EVP Government Community Affairs Office of Public Affairs Publications and Marketing Office of the Senior Executive VP Client Services Environmental Stewardship Senior Executive VP President's Office Ombuds Office Office of the Secretary Office of the President University Senate School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA) Science and Technology Ventures Columbia Innovation Enterprise Science and Technology Ventures Student and Administrative Services CU Faculty House Dining Services Health Services - Morningside Human Resources Printing Services Student Services University Residence Halls Teachers College (eligible for Project only) CUIT Applications home icon VPN and Citrix for Faculty, Researchers, and Staff listl icon Administrative Applications (e.g. ARC, InfoEd, ECRT) google icon Google Apps for LionMail terminal icon UNIX Applications on CUNIX CU Libraries' Applications codepen icon Scientific Software from CU Libraries ChemDraw Crystalmaker NVivo Schrodinger Pymol book icon Citation Management Software from CU Libraries Zotero Mendeley EndNote Site License Distribution Policies There are certain policies in place for all licenses procured through CUIT and others that are specific to particular products. The general policies are categorized as follows: Expand all Collapse all 1 Licensee Responsibilities The licensee is responsible for his or her own installation and setup. You must not install more copies of the software than you pay for. Any infringement of the license policies becomes the responsibility of the licensee and not Columbia University. 2 Proration Policy Software will not be prorated, either by price or by duration. 3 Support Issues CUIT provides these licenses as a service to the Columbia community. The licensees are responsible for installation, maintaining hardware and making sure the appropriate operating system is installed. 4 Software Supported Versions/Releases Only the most current versions will be distributed. CUIT does not maintain older, archived versions of software. Software in CUIT Computer Labs and Clusters Software in CUIT-supported Electronic Classrooms Computer Lab Locations and Hours Public Computer Kiosk Locations Submit a ticket to the CUIT Service Desk Call the CUIT Service Desk at 212-854-1919 Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Administrative OfficesStudebaker Building, 5th & 6th Floors, 615 West 131st Street · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Walk-in Center202 Philosophy Hall, 1150 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-1919 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close