Skip to main content ISU Index Menu ISU News Store Contact Us Offices Extension Finance Search form Search Main menu Main Menu Home Budget Contracts & Grants Staff About Contracts and Grants About Us - Contracts and Grants Extension Meet the Contracts and Grants staff at ISU Extension and Outreach County Ag Extension Districts Indirect Cost Rate I'm in a County Extension Office. What is the correct Facilities and Administrative Costs (F&A), or indirect cost rate that should be used when applying for grants? Extension Program Fee Agreement This template should be used for Fee-for-Service or Revenue generation with customers when necessary. It is customized for educational programs and presentations. Service Agreement Template This template should be used when providing a fee-for-service with a University approved fee rate. This Agreement is provided by the University Legal Counsel and provides legal language for materials transfer and confidentiality. Note that a speaking and educational Program Agreement is also available on the Extension and Finance Contracts and Grants website. Strong Iowa Statements for Grant Writers Many sponsors will want strong evidence of a need for funding. This document might help get you started. Pages 1 2 next › last » About Us ISU Extension Finance is responsible for the following: Manage ISU Extension's Federal & State allocation of funds, including: budgeting, analysis and financial reporting. Advise ISU Extension staff on Federal and State compliance issues. Provide fiscal assistance to the Program Directors and Regional Directors. Manage and approve personnel actions for all ISU paid Extension employees. Manage the ISU Extension Federal Employee Programs: CSRS, FERS, TSP & FEGLI. Manage ISU Extension grants and contracts including budgeting and post award financial reporting, managed through campus, and provide training and guidance to counties for grants administered through Extension Districts. Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. 2150 Beardshear Hall, Ames, IA 50011-2031 (800) 262-3804 Iowa State University | Policies State & National Extension Partners Site Index | Site Map Extension Finance 2280 Beardshear Hall Ames, IA 50011-2026 Phone: (515) 294-2940 extfinance@iastate.edu Office Hours: Monday - Friday: 8am to 5pm Map to Beardshear Hall Located on the 2nd Floor Parking at Memorial Union Parking Ramp