Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery About the Institute Toggle information Close detail panel Decorative ironwork on kiosk outside Fay House in Radcliffe Yard bears a pattern of Radcliffe Rs. Fay House has been at the heart of Radcliffe College, and now the Institute, since its very earliest days. The historic Fay Mansion was purchased in 1885 to provide the first permanent quarters for the growing college. It now houses the offices of the dean, the executive dean, communications, development, and finance. Photo by Kevin Grady The Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study at Harvard University—known as Harvard Radcliffe Institute— is one of the world’s leading centers for interdisciplinary research and exploration. The Institute’s work is shaped by its history as the former Radcliffe College—a school founded to ensure that the standard of education embodied in Harvard was accessible to women, who were then excluded from the University. Radcliffe’s defining commitment to women and the study of gender endures in the Institute’s programs and the world-class collections of its Schlesinger Library. But the legacy of Radcliffe College is not simply coeducation at Harvard; it is the recognition that universities will always be greater when they draw wisdom and talent from the widest possible pool. This principle has guided Radcliffe’s work for nearly a century and a half. Among the many distinguished schools of Harvard, the Institute is unique: interdisciplinary by design and animated by a legacy of promoting inclusion. Quick Links Our Work History, Mission, and Values Who We Are Alumnae Dean Brown-Nagin's Welcome Play video Learn more about Dean Tomiko Brown-Nagin As president, I have come to appreciate even more the role Radcliffe plays in attracting great scholars to Harvard. A disproportionate number of the most talented faculty we have recruited have begun their careers right here—and for good reason. This community is bold, imaginative, and nimble. Lawrence S. Bacow President, Harvard University History, Mission, and Values In the late 19th century, an era in which women were barred from attending Harvard, a group of educators came together to help qualified women scholars to access instruction by Harvard faculty. This effort eventually led to the founding of Radcliffe College. It was not until 1999 that Radcliffe would officially merge with Harvard University, and today's Harvard Radcliffe Institute would be established. Although Radcliffe ceased to be a women’s college in 1999, its history and values are alive and well. Indeed, Radcliffe College’s legacy is at the heart of the Institute’s work today. The Harvard Radcliffe Institute is unique among the many distinguished schools of Harvard: interdisciplinary by design and animated by an institutional legacy of promoting inclusion. Read the Institute's Founding Mission Explore Radcliffe’s History: From College to Institute Our Work: Featured Areas of Inquiry 01 / 06 Slide left Slide right Equity and Opportunity Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery Women, Gender, and Society Youth Leadership Law, Education, and Justice Long 19th Amendment Explore the full range of our work Who We Are Harvard Radcliffe Institute is an interdisciplinary community of students, scholars, researchers, practitioners, artists, and others committed to pursuing curiosity-driven research, expanding human understanding, and grappling with questions that demand insight from across disciplines. Our Dean Our Fellows Our Faculty Our Staff Our Student Advisory Board Our Dean's Advisory and Schlesinger Library Councils Subscribe Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox. Sign up for Radcliffe newsletters Events 01 / 02 Slide left Slide right 04 Apr 2022 01 Oct 2022 exhibition Out for Blood: Feminine Hygiene to Menstrual Equity 14 Feb 2022 02 Jul 2022 exhibition Gala Porras-Kim: Precipitation for an Arid Landscape See All Events News & Ideas Harvard Radcliffe Institute Awards 2022 Fay Prize for Outstanding Theses Harvard Radcliffe Institute Announces 2022–2023 Fellows Harvard’s Walking Tour App Highlights Overlooked History Some of Boston’s Legacy of Slavery is Hidden in Plain Sight The Prison as Petri Dish Zooming the Archives Constance Baker Motley, Then and Now In Process: Adrienne Kennedy Papers and Dorothy I. Height Papers Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College