Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Conference & Event Services Conference & Event right arrow down arrow Services right arrow down arrow Conference Planning Event Registration Event Equipment Rental Specialty Lighting Promotional Tabling Weddings Summer Intern Housing Summer Conferences & Camps Catering On-Demand Meeting Rooms Venues right arrow down arrow Tangeman University Center right arrow down arrow Great Hall Rates Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Nippert Stadium West Pavilion right arrow down arrow West Pavilion Event Policies West Pavilion Catering right arrow down arrow Corry Street Catering Menu West Pavilion Rates Campus Recreation Center Outdoor Classrooms Athletic Facilities Other Stratford Heights Resources right arrow down arrow COVID-19 For Students For Faculty & Staff For Non-University Clients Event Policies Use of Facilities Catering Guide West Pavilion Event & Catering Guide FAQ Contact Us Request A Space right arrow down arrow 25 Live Instructions Home » About UC » Conference & Event Services » Services Set Navigation title in component Conference Planning Event Registration Event Equipment Rental Specialty Lighting Promotional Tabling Weddings Summer Intern Housing Summer Conferences & Camps Catering On-Demand Meeting Rooms Services Conference & Event Services provides the university community and non–university individuals with a variety of meeting planning services. CES has dedicated and professional certified event planners to help make your event a success. Conference Planning CES offers meeting planning services to ensure that your program runs smoothly and efficiently. Our team will help organize your program from beginning to end, providing complete support every step of the way. A conference of this magnitude could not have been done without CES...period. Innocence Network Conference Event Registration Services CES offers comprehensive event registration services for events of all sizes. We handle the time-consuming tasks related to registration so you can focus on the larger aspects of the event. Event Equipment Rental CES offers an event equipment rental program available to events on Main West Campus. Promotional Tabling Introduce your organization to the university community by setting up a promotional table inside the Tangeman University Center or outside on MainStreet! Weddings Your dream wedding awaits you at the University of Cincinnati! Come back to UC for your special day, a place you know well and have fond memories! Summer Intern Housing The University of Cincinnati offers interns convenient and affordable summer housing, all in a vibrant urban setting. Summer Conferencing CES provides a one stop shop for scheduling your summer camp, conference or workshop at the University of Cincinnati. Catering One of the most important and memorable parts of any event is the food. Let our catering staff take care of the details so you can focus on your event and guests. On-Demand Need a space to study or work on a small group project? Look no further. Lighting Create a stunning impression the moment your guests step into your event with our specialty lighting package. Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 event.services@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top