Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Medical Laboratory Sciences (BS) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Medicine Department(s) Biomedical Sciences In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students in this major are subject to the Progress Policy set by the College of Medicine for its undergraduate students. For more information, visit https://med.ucf.edu/biomed/undergraduate-programs/undergraduate-advising/. Students should complete the General Education Program, Foreign Language Admissions and the Common Program Prerequisite Requirements before transferring within the Florida College System or State University System. Students should consult with a departmental advisor. The courses designated in sections 1 and 2 below may be taken at a Florida College System institution, and should usually be completed in the first 60 hours. A minimum overall GPA of 2.5 and a minimum grade of "C" (2.0) in prerequisite and major courses is required for admission to, continuation in, and graduation from the Medical Laboratory Sciences Program. UCF Residency Requirement: 32 hours. The courses designated in General Education and Common Program Prerequisites should usually be completed in the first 60 hours. An FDLE background check, negative drug screen, and Board of Clinical Lab Personnel trainee license are required. While many students discover that they have interests in varied disciplines at the University of Central Florida, they are not permitted to pursue two majors within the College of Medicine. College of Medicine students may declare a major and a minor within the college, or pursue a second major or minor in another academic college at UCF. Students are encouraged to meet with an academic advisor to discuss these opportunities. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Clinical Laboratory Science Professor Clinical Sciences Professor Dentistry Professor Gastroenterology Professor Neurology Professor Nutrition Professor Occupational Therapy Professor Optometry Professor Pharmacology Professor Physical Therapy Professor Podiatric Medicine Professor Podiatry Professor Public Health Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Medicine programs Bachelors Medical Laboratory Sciences (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students in this major are subject to the Progress Policy set by the College of Medicine for its undergraduate students. For more information, visit https://med.ucf.edu/biomed/undergraduate-programs/undergraduate-advising/. Students should complete the General Education Program, Foreign Language Admissions and the Common Program Prerequisite Requirements before transferring within the Florida College System or State University System. Students should consult with a departmental advisor. The courses designated in sections 1 and 2 below may be taken at a Florida College System institution, and should usually be completed in the first 60 hours. A minimum overall GPA of 2.5 and a minimum grade of "C" (2.0) in prerequisite and major courses is required for admission to, continuation in, and graduation from the Medical Laboratory Sciences Program. UCF Residency Requirement: 32 hours. The courses designated in General Education and Common Program Prerequisites should usually be completed in the first 60 hours. An FDLE background check, negative drug screen, and Board of Clinical Lab Personnel trainee license are required. While many students discover that they have interests in varied disciplines at the University of Central Florida, they are not permitted to pursue two majors within the College of Medicine. College of Medicine students may declare a major and a minor within the college, or pursue a second major or minor in another academic college at UCF. Students are encouraged to meet with an academic advisor to discuss these opportunities. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 64 Total Credits Complete the following: MLS3220C - Techniques in Clinical Microscopy (3) MLS4625 - Advanced Clinical Chemistry I (3) MLS4625L - Advanced Clinical Chem I Lab (1) MLS4630 - Clinical Chemistry II (3) PCB3233 - Immunology (3) MLS4430C - Clinical Microbiology I (4) MLS3305 - Hematology (3) MLS4505 - Immunodiagnostics (3) MLS4910 - Introduction to Clinical Research (2) MLS4550C - Clinical Immunohematology (5) MLS4460C - Clinical Microbiology II (5) MLS4334 - Hemostasis (3) MLS4625 - Advanced Clinical Chemistry I (3) PCB3233L - Immunology Laboratory (1) MLS4933 - MLS Senior Seminar (1) MLS3705 - Concepts in Education/Management (3) MLS4830L - Clinical Chemistry Laboratory Practicum (3) MLS4831L - Immunohematology Laboratory Practicum (3) MLS4832L - Interpretive & Practical Hematology (4) MLS4833L - Microbiology Laboratory Practicum (3) MLS4075L - Clinical Applications of Laboratory Automation (1) BSC3403C - Quantitative Biological Methods (4) Grand Total Credits: 64 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida