Skip Navigation menu search Sign-ons CyMail Outlook Canvas AccessPlus Workday More Directory Maps Contact Us Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Parking Division menu Home Services Visitors Meters & Pay by Stall Maps / Times Ames Intermodal Facility ISU Police Department About Us FAQ Visitor Parking Information Welcome to the ISU Parking Division News and Updates 2022-2023 Parking Permit Prices Student Summer Parking permits on sale beginning April 26 at 9:00 am Students may login to AccessPlus to purchase their summer permits for residence halls, campus commuter lots (Lots 29, 68, 119) and Lot 93 at Veterinary Medicine. All campus lots require a parking pass during the summer. Students can pick up their summer permits at the front counter until Tuesday May 17 at noon. Any remaining permits will be mailed to the address on file. Permits are also available to purchase over the counter. Faculty & Staff Permit Renewal begins May 25 at 9:00 am Eligible Faculty and Staff will be able to renew their parking permits through AccessPlus beginning May 25 at 9:00 am. Click on the "Employee" tab and the "Parking Division" link will be on the left side of the screen. Please update your vehicle and license plate information when you are prompted. This ensures that your permit is attached to the correct plate. Student Parking Permits for Fall 2022-2023 Returning students with a signed campus housing contract may renew their parking passes beginning in July on these selected dates, depending on location. New students and transfer students will have the opportunity to purchase permits later in July. New Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Electric vehicle charging stations have been installed on ISU campus and in the City of Ames, for EV driver's convenience. There will be two charging stations located on ISU campus. One is currently located at ISU Transportation Services and the other is in the lower level of the Ames Intermodal Facility. There is a fee and vehicles are only allowed to be parked while actively charging. Time limits and fees may vary by location. Create an account or login with ChargePoint to start charging today. Online Forms Bicycle Registration Form Citation Appeal Failure To Display Forgot Permit ISU Departmental Permits Update Vehicle/License Plate Special Events Request Vendor Permit Request Visitor Permit Request Visitor Void Report a Broken Meter Student Jobs Department of Public Safety - Parking Division, 27 Armory Building, Ames, IA 50011, (515) 294-3388, parking@iastate.edu. Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved.