Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content News Contact Us Experts Latest News Latest News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Broadcast Studio Research ☰ Featured News SMU News Featured News Ten Dallas County Students Awarded Full-Tuition Scholarships to SMU Ten Dallas County Students Awarded Full-Tuition Scholarships to SMU “These scholarships can be life-changing for the recipients, and bring such amazing students to our campus.” March 31, 2022 Pony Up to SMU Mustang Scholarships! Pictured are SMU Dean of Admission Elena Hicks, Mustang Scholarship recipients Ephraim Sun, Jorge Vazquez and SMU Senior Associate Director of Admission Rod Jackson. DALLAS (SMU) – With balloons and plenty of red and blue swag in hand, members of the SMU admission team waited on a recent morning in March in the teacher’s lounge at Dallas ISD’s Townview Science and Engineering School for a surprise presentation. When seniors Ephraim Sun and Jorge Vazquez opened the door, Rod Jackson and Dean of Admission Elena Hicks delivered the news that the high school seniors have been awarded Dallas County Mustang Scholarships, which cover full SMU tuition and fees for four years. Sun and Vazquez are among ten students from across Dallas County who have received Mustang Scholarship offers from SMU. Other scholarship winners include Carah Ke'Shona Allen, Cedar Hill High School; Stella Barrera, Nimitz High School; Christopher Leonard Degrate, Jr., Kimball High School; Elizabeth Larez, Lancaster High School; Jessica Long, Grand Prairie High School; Maria Murad, Bryan Adams High School; Diya Patel, North Mesquite High School and Paul Rowe, MacArthur High School. “This is one of the moments we look forward to all year long,” said Jackson, SMU senior associate director of admission. “These scholarships can be life-changing for the recipients, and bring such amazing students to our campus.” SMU’s Dallas County Mustang Scholarship is awarded each year to 10 students who attend Dallas County high schools and meet these criteria. Graduation from a public, private or charter high school located in Dallas County (Texas) Admission into SMU for the fall semester following high school graduation Texas residency Verified Pell Grant eligibility as defined by a FAFSA or the equivalent demonstrated need as defined by the TASFA Priority given to students with a cumulative “A” average (3.500 GPA) in grades 9-12 ### SMU News Broadcast Studio Contact Us SMU Research Blog Experts News Archives Featured News Research Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share