Cornell University LEPP SEARCH: LEPP Cornell more options LEPP Home Research Education Publications User Resources People Faculty Director LEPP Directory Events Journal Club CLASSE Seminars Accelerator Seminars Particle Theory Conferences Contact/Tour LEPP Jobs News Safety Announcements CHESS Users' Meeting 2014 LEPP » News News CESR-TA measures Fast Ion Instability A slice of the data taken during the April CesrTA run. Read more... Cornell Receives $100 Million Grant for Synchrotron U.S. Senator Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) announced Monday that CHESS will receive $100 million in funding from the NSF over the next five years. Read more... | More on the renewal grant... Past News Items U.S. Rep. Tom Reed visits Cornell Synchrotron All 7-cell cavities for the ERL Main-Linac Cryomodule pass vertical tests Robotics for girls: A grad student's perspective Prof. Donald Hartill Elected as an American Association for the Advancement of Science Fellow Autodesk donates 3-D software to Cornell A History of Science: Cornell High Energy Synchrotron Source Symposium to celebrate the science of Ken Wilson World’s Brightest Beams Measured at Cornell's Photoinjector Revamp Camp connects kids, software engineering CLASSE releases the design and science of an Energy Recovery Linac (ERL) x-ray light source Cornell Nb3Sn Program Produces Cavity that Exceeds Previous Limitation Linear collider gains key insights from Cornell physicists Toward photocathode engineering World-record Q0 for a multi-cell cavity of the Cornell ERL Expo features flyers, hoverers, soarers and wind catchers 2nd Annual Wind Turbine Challenge Cornell ERL Electron Injector surpasses long-standing record Women in physics network, mentor at conference CHESS X-rays help characterize organic transistors Obama appoints Lepage to National Science Board Cornell Grad Measures Record High Q Factor CIPT workshop supports community of teachers with research, resources Hasan Padamsee wins 2012 Bakish Award Ensuring arXiv's Future 50-year Theory Validated with Discovery of Higgs Boson Cornell SRF Graduate Student Receives Poster Award Cornell Vertical Electro-Polishing of SRF cavities achieves ILC base-line specifications Cornell makes physics fun at D.C. science expo Wind turbine challengers 'catch the breeze' NYC teachers learn hands-on activities to inspire students Hasan Padamsee receives IEEE Particle Accelerator Science and Technology Award! Junk Genies Program Helps Middle Schoolers Apply Physics Cornell ERL Prototype Successes Grow Cornell-ERL Main-Linac Cavity Reaches Performance Specs in Vertical Test Resource Fair shows local teachers how Cornell can help First Cavity for the Cornell-ERL main linac First two-sided limit on FCNC decay rate of Bs mesons at CDF NanoDay 2011 at Wilson Lab The sound of accelerator cavities – liquid helium's curious properties help scientists focus on cavity defects. Discovery of new source of energy? IEEE Award for Cornell PhD thesis in SRF Cornell makes progress on Energy Recovery Linac New Results in Electron Cloud Physics Research $109 million NSF award funds X-ray science, research and development for revolutionary new X-ray source Cornell Summer Science Sampler Program Fabrication of seven-cell cavities for the international ERL cryomodule collaboration Clobbering Electron Clouds CU Physicist to use stimulus funds to study electron beams The LHC Concludes a Successful First Run Cornell electron storage ring is test case for International Linear Collider Cornell University workshop highlights importance of R&D for ILC damping rings Wilson Synchrotron Laboratory Open House 2009 Cornell ERL09 Workshop Large time projection chamber prototype is about to start its first test First Beam through ERL Injector Expanding Your Horizons gets a spark from LEPP! Physicist Drell calls for scientists to act more selflessly -- and broadly -- in seeking science funding Wilson Synchrotron looks ahead to 'big science' and looks back on 40 years of leading accelerator research Nobel Laureate Steven Weinberg Delivers Messenger Lectures REU Summer Students Contribute to ILC Damping Ring Studies at Cornell University ERL Funding Jim Alexander becomes Director of LEPP Undergraduate Physics Majors Participate in Cornell's LEPP Summer Research Projects Physics labs consolidate to form CLASSE and build a new accelerator Superconducting Cavity Test - June 2006. Cornell Group Achieves Milestone in Superconducting Cavity Test Performance Record - May 2006. CESR-c Achieves New Performance Record. Binding Quarks - April 2006. CLEO-c measures the orbit of the down quark when it is bound to a much heavier charm quark. From Cornell News Service Archives Fingerprints, flowers and shrimp eyeballs... "Cornell Researchers take science on the road to NYC Schools" Particle physics in U.S. is at a crossroads... "With ILC, it's electrons, so you know to a gnat's eyelash what the energy of the colliding particles is. And that gives you more constraints." Tigner wins American Physical Society award July 28, 2005. Tigner wins American Physical Society award for work on missile defense. By Lauren Gold. ITHACA, NY -- Maury Tigner, professor ... www.news.cornell.edu/stories/July05/Tigner.missile.lg.html - 6k - Cached Wilson Synchrotron Laboratory open house ... one of a series of events during the past month sponsored by the Cornell Department of Physics and Laboratory for Elementary Particle Physics (LEPP), and other ... www.news.cornell.edu/stories/June05/Wilson.lab.open.sfm.html - 4k - Cached Cornell News: World Year of Physics A series of events sponsored by Cornell University's Department of Physics and Laboratory for Elementary-Particle Physics (LEPP) and other Cornell outreach ... www.news.cornell.edu/stories/May05/LEPP-Events.sfm.html - 5k - Cached X-ray source prototype NSF awards Cornell $18 million to develop a new source of X-rays. By Simeon Moss. In the proposed Energy Recovery Linac facility, electrons ... www.news.cornell.edu/Chronicle/05/2.24.05/ERL.html - 6k - Cached Cornell News: particle colliders described Maury Tigner, director of Cornell's Laboratory for Elementary Particle Physics (LEPP), is playing a major role in CERN's Large Hadron Collider (LHC) and the ... www.news.cornell.edu/releases/Feb05/AAAS.Tigner.deb.html - 6k - Cached Physics First ... presenters at a Cornell conference, called Exploring Physics First, June 30 to July 2 sponsored by Cornell's Laboratory of Elementary Particle Physics (LEPP). ... www.news.cornell.edu/Chronicle/03/7.24.03/Physics_First.html - 5k - Cached Physics workshop is July 26 ... On July 26 Ahren Sadoff, research professor at the Laboratory for Elementary-Particle Physics (LEPP) at Cornell, and Lora Hine, education outreach coordinator ... www.news.cornell.edu/Chronicle/04/7.15.04/physics_workshop.html - 5k- Cached Labs awarded NSF funding ... million over the next five years by the National Science Foundation (NSF) to support research at the Laboratory for Elementary-Particle Physics (LEPP) and the ... www.news.cornell.edu/Chronicle/03/3.13.03/CESR-NSF.html - 7k - Cached Research spending ... allocations" being made to the synchrotron complex at Wilson Laboratory, which houses CHESS (Cornell High Energy Synchrotron Source), LEPP (Laboratory for ... www.news.cornell.edu/Chronicle/03/1.16.03/research_spending.html - 5k - Cached Atoms for Kids class ... This is an attitude that scientists at Cornell's Laboratory of Elementary Particle Physics (LEPP) hope to persuade many more children to adopt. ... www.news.cornell.edu/Chronicle/02/4.25.02/Atoms_for_Kids.html - 6k - Cached Physicists meet to discuss collider ... The university's Laboratory of Elementary Particle Physics, or LEPP (previously the Newman Laboratory of Nuclear Studies), is organizing a national consortium ... www.news.cornell.edu/Chronicle/02/4.25.02/collider_mtg.html - 6k - Cached Cornell News: Tigner named LNS director Maury Tigner, accelerator builder and adviser on Chinese science, is named director of Cornell's particle research lab. www.news.cornell.edu/releases/Dec99/Tigner.LNS.deb.html - 8k - Cached Dugan Selected as North American Regional GDE Director Recently, GDE Director Barry Barish announced the appointment of Gerald Dugan, professor of physics at Cornell University, as the regional director of the ILC Global Design Effort for North America. 06.03.2005 External News Resources Particle Physics News and Resources Symmetry: Dimensions of particle Physics © 2012 Laboratory for Elementary-Particle Physics Supported by the National Science Foundation and the US Department of Energy Please send comments or suggestions.