Skip to main content Restrict my search to The Honors College Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to the Honors College Search The Honors College About Mission & Vision Honors Profile News & Events Faculty and Staff Contact Us Students Current Students Prospective Students Human Situation Book Lists Student Resources Human Situation Registration Programs & Minors Honors Minors Curricular Programs Co-Curricular Programs Honors and the Schools Undergraduate Research OURMA Programs Honors Thesis Fellowships Faculty Resources About Alumni & Giving Give to Honors The Great Conversation Ross M. Lence Dinner & Dialogues Current Priorities Honors College Advisory Board News & Events News & Events Office of Communication Apply! UH Home The Honors College Programs & Minors Curricular Programs Honors Program in the Health Professions Programs & Minors Honors Minors Curricular Programs 3+3 Law Program Bauer Business Honors Program Global Studies Honors Engineering Program Honors Program in the Health Professions Honors Biomedical Sciences Houston Premedical Academy Medicine & Society 3 + 2 Master of Public Policy Co-Curricular Programs Honors and the Schools Honors Program in the Health Professions The Honors Program in the Health Professions, or (HP)2, is an exciting joint venture between the Honors College and the College of Natural Sciences & Mathematics, bridging the cultures of science to those of the liberal arts. The program is open to all Honors College students who are interested in the health professions. Students participating in the program will gain perspective on the diversity of opportunities available within the health professions and on what it takes to be a good candidate for professional school — and ultimately in becoming a better practitioner. Medicine, nursing, dentistry, pharmacy, optometry or the dozens of other fields our students aspire to be part of will have a voice in (HP)2, and students will meet many different kinds of professionals as they visit to give talks or to guest lecture in classes developed specifically for the program. Students are also expected to meet practicing health professionals through internships, research and other planned clinical opportunities. The program is open to all Honors College students who are interested in the health professions. Membership is required for students in special programs such as the Houston Premedical Academy. The Medicine & Society minor also falls under the Honors Program in the Health Professions. The goal that inspired the minor — guiding a generation of empathic, broadly educated and compassionate health professionals — is also central to the mission of (HP)2. (HP)2 Contacts Helen Valier, Director of Medicine & Society M.D. Anderson Library 4333 University Drive, Rm 212 Houston, TX 77204-2001 713.743.9010 voice 713.743.9015 fax 1.888.827.0366 (toll-free) honors@uh.edu Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Bookstore Libraries Parking Human Resources Jobs at UH A-Z Offices Directories Emergency Libraries President Social Media Policies Fraud Reporting Title IX - Sexual Conduct Homeland Security TRAIL State of Texas ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies