Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Admissions Visiting SMU Visiting SMU Touring SMU Dedman School of Law We believe that the best way to experience SMU is to visit our beautiful campus. You are welcome to schedule a virtual appointment with an admissions counselor, take a guided tour, observe a live, virtual first-year law school class, or join us at any of the upcoming virtual events we are attending. If you would like to schedule a guided tour of the SMU Law campus, please click HERE! If you prefer to tour our campus from home, we have created two virtual ways for you to experience our beautiful campus: Admissions Events It is a pleasure to invite you to our annual Minority Pre-Law Symposium on Saturday, February 19, 2022 from 8:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. The program will provide you the opportunity to meet virtually with Dedman Law students, faculty, administrators, and alumni. Our hope is that you will gain a better understanding of the law school application and admissions process and learn more about pursuing a legal career. This program is not limited to minority students. Students of all ethnic backgrounds are encouraged to attend. We will raffle off four (4) free Kaplan LSAT preparatory courses, valued at over $1800, which have been generously donated by Kaplan, Inc. and the law school. We hope you will consider attending this special event! During the fall semester, you can also visit with an SMU Dedman Law representative at one of the many recruiting events we attend. Address and Map The SMU Dedman School of Law quadrangle is located on the southeast corner of Hillcrest Avenue and Daniel Avenue in the heart of Dallas, Texas. The physical address of the Admissions Office is: 3300 University Boulevard Carr Collins Building, Suite 331 Dallas, Texas 75205 Storey Hall A.J. Thomas Faculty Room (Main Floor) Alumni Development (Main Floor) Dean's Suite (Main Floor) Faculty Offices (2nd and 3rd Floors) Karcher Auditorium (Main Floor) Law Clinics (Lower Level) Law Reviews (Lower Level) Registrar (Main Floor) Student Affairs (Main Floor) Student Associations (Lower Level) Florence Hall Classrooms (1st, 2nd & 3rd Floors) Godwin Gruber Trial Courtroom (2nd Floor) Judy & Michael Shore Classroom (2nd Floor) Stewart Title Classroom (2nd Floor) Underwood Law Library Hillcrest Appellate Courtroom and Classroom (1st Floor) Underwood Law Library (entrance on 2nd floor) Walsh Classroom (1st Floor) Carr Collins Hall Admissions (3rd Floor) Career Services (3rd Floor) Godwin Gruber Lawyers Inn (Dining Hall and Student Lounge (1st Floor) Public Service Program (3rd Floor) 101 Seminar Room (1st Floor) Parking Information Parking on the SMU campus requires a parking pass at all times. If you are visiting the law school, please be sure to have a parking pass for parking in either the Daniel Parking Center, Airline Parking Center or the Commuter Lot U. SMU Parking Map is here. Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Download brochure Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram