In This Issue Protector of the Past Porsha Dossie ’14 ’18MA helps preserve American history for the National Park Service’s African American Civil Rights Network. The Truth Laid Bare It’s taken nearly 100 years for healing to begin from the 1920 Ocoee massacre. Somewhere between then and now are timeless lessons. Why I Celebrate My Heritage Don Harrell shares why his past and present make him proud of his heritage. The Right to Vote? Black Americans and other people of color have fought to overcome various methods intended to suppress the right to vote. Here are just a few. A More Perfect Union The $23 million renovation of the Student Union finished its final phase just in time to welcome students back to campus in August. Fair Play For more than 30 years, the Racial and Gender Report Card, produced at UCF, has held sports organizations accountable for their hiring practices. The Business of Hip-Hop Drawing on a lifelong love of hip-hop, a UCF professor has developed three new business courses based on innovation and entrepreneurship. Of History and Hope Artwork commissioned for UCF Downtown pays homage to Parramore’s rich heritage. A New Beginning A look at the first few weeks on campus as the community continues to navigate life during the COVID-19 pandemic. We Are UCF As our country reckons with our past and its lasting effects on today’s society, students in UCF’s cultural organizations remain focused on a better future. Is Cancel Culture Effective? Centuries ago, it was tarring and feathering. Today, it’s a hashtag. It’s evolving, but is cancel culture effective? Fostering Inclusivity How UCF is taking action to meet its mission for inclusive excellence. Celebrating Representation Inspired by Latinx arts and music, five Knights discuss their cultural pride and the importance of representation. Close Back Forward Pegasus The Magazine of the University of Central Florida In This Issue Archives The Truth Laid Bare Is Cancel Culture Effective? Fostering Inclusivity More in this Issue Protector of the Past A More Perfect Union Of History and Hope Celebrating Representation We Are UCF The Right to Vote? A New Beginning The Business of Hip-Hop Why I Celebrate My Heritage Fair Play Recent Issues of Pegasus Magazine View Archives » Follow UCF on Facebook Follow UCF on Twitter Follow UCF on YouTube Pegasus Magazine Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816