Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News On the Eve of Earth Day, A Live Discussion About the Consequential Decade Ahead Climate On the Eve of Earth Day, A Live Discussion About the Consequential Decade Ahead Tonight’s Earth Lecture takes a hard look at climate change and the path forward. By Marie DeNoia Aronsohn April 21, 2021 In honor of Earth Day on April 22, the Earth Institute has a variety of great stories and events lined up for you throughout the entire month of April. Learn more. A sign from a climate march in 2014. Photo: Open Minder/Flickr When President Biden took office in January, he set a goal of making the U.S. carbon neutral by 2050. This will require steeper emissions cuts than the U.S. has ever achieved — a tall order, but the stakes are exceedingly high. Scientists warn the next decade will be crucial for taking powerful action to stem catastrophic climate impacts. “This is a problem like no other,” said Alex Halliday, founding dean of the newly launched Columbia Climate School and director of the Earth Institute. “Climate is a problem where we need to effect real change in the world very, very quickly.” “This is a problem we’ve created as the human race, and I know there’s a lot of passion and commitment to do whatever we can to find solutions,” said Maureen Raymo, co-founding dean of the Columbia Climate School and director of Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. John Kerry, the special presidential envoy for climate, doesn’t mince words about the urgent need for climate action. His remarks earlier this week at a media roundtable in Seoul, Korea, outlined the big changes that are needed to transition to a new energy economy and more sustainable practices. “The climate crisis — and it is a crisis — is growing. We all need to do more. Every country,” said Kerry. “We are looking at the greatest economic transition since the Industrial Revolution. And we need corporations, manufacturers, technologies… all have to be at the table, because this is not something any one entity or one country can resolve. It requires major multilateral efforts, and every aspect of society needs to join in.” In the context of this high-stakes need for immediate action, Halliday and Raymo will discuss the scientific evidence outlining global climate risk and Columbia’s strengthened approach to issues of climate and sustainability. The live discussion, The Climate Imperative: Meeting the Moment, which begins at April 21 at 6 pm EDT, will be moderated by CBS News meteorologist and climate specialist Jeff Berardelli. RSVP here. To help advance the work of our scientists and experts working on our most pressing issues, please consider supporting the Earth Institute and Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory today. You can also learn more on our Earth Day website. Tags climate action decarbonization Earth Day Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close