Center for Policy Research on Energy and the Environment (C-PREE) Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu Research Submenu Air Pollution and Health Behavioral Decision Research Climate Adaptation Conservation Energy Systems Food, Agriculture, and Land People Submenu Faculty Students Postdocs & Researchers Staff Environmental Policy Associates Events Submenu David Bradford Energy and Environmental Policy Seminar Series Submenu David Bradford Seminars Archive & Videos Other Events & Conferences Submenu Archive of Conferences & Other Events News STEP Program Submenu Master's Certificate Doctoral Certificate STEP PhD in Public Affairs About Submenu Work with Us Contact Become an Environmental Policy Associate Sign up for C-PREE's newsletter Log in Search Search Center for Policy Research on Energy and the Environment (C-PREE) C-PREE is an interdisciplinary research center at the Princeton School for Public and International Affairs committed to training leaders in the field of environmental and energy policy. We develop rigorous research that blends scientific knowledge and methods with social science and practitioner perspectives in ways that yield practical solutions for the major environmental and energy challenges facing the world today. Responding to Climate Change : Explore Policy Research Explore Policy Research Air Pollution and Health : Explore Policy Research Explore Policy Research Conservation of Wildlife and Ecosystems : Explore Policy Research Explore Policy Research Climate and Behavioral Change : Explore Policy Research Explore Policy Research Food, Agriculture, and Land : Explore Policy Research Explore Policy Research Energy Systems : Explore Policy Research Explore Policy Research News Extreme Climate Fluctuation Drives South African Domestic Migration Author Written by Riis Williams and B. Rose Huber, Princeton School of Public and International Affairs As the climate crisis worsens, some South Africans are relocating to places with more stable climate conditions, according to a study led by Princeton University researchers. Using… As China Converts to Clean Energy, Households Should Consider Using Heat Pumps to Maximize Climate, Air Quality, Economic, and Health Benefits Author Written by B. Rose Huber, Princeton School of Public and International Affairs Many of China’s households still rely on small coal stoves for heat, which causes air pollution that damages health. To address these problems, the Chinese government launched a five-year “Clean Heating Plan” in 2017 with the goal of transitioning 70% of northern households away from coal and toward cleaner heating options. As the plan… Policy Interventions Could Help Farmers Economically Survive in Vulnerable Regions Author Written by B. Rose Huber, Princeton School of Public and International Affairs In the grasslands of Nepal’s Chitwan Valley, local farmers rely on the production of rice and other grains to generate household income. But their livelihoods are under threat, as Nepal is experiencing the effects of climate change at a much faster rate than the global average. As these effects worsen, it’s unclear what smallholder… Tackling Climate Change’s Most Complex Phenomena Author Written by Riis L. Williams A new partnership between Princeton University’s Center for Policy Research on Energy and the Environment (C-PREE) and the High Meadows Environmental Institute (HMEI) is pairing students and researchers to work on solutions to today… View All News Events No upcoming events found. View All Sign up for our quarterly newsletter for updates on events, latest research, and news. Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University