Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Professional Education Menu About Staff Directory Calendar State Authorizations & Licenses Professional Licensure Disclosure by Program Student Resources Student Services and Benefits Online Student Withdrawal Tech Support FAQs Tips for Online Students Academic Integrity Degrees and Programs Continuing Education Department Resources Baylor>Professional Education>About>State Authorizations & Licenses State Authorizations & Licenses Baylor University has been approved by the State of Texas to participate in the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements. NC-SARA is a voluntary, regional approach to state oversight of postsecondary distance education. This agreement allows students from 49 participating states to file complaints with the State of Texas where Baylor is based, rather than their own state of residence. More information may be found here. The only state that does not participate in SARA is California Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maine Maryland Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York Nevada North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Professional Licensure If you are considering an academic program that leads to a professional license in your state, it is highly recommended that you first seek guidance from the appropriate licensing agency in your home state, before beginning the academic program located outside of your state. It is the student's responsibility to contact the appropriate licensing board in his/her home state to confirm whether our program, at Baylor, will meet the requirements for licensure in that state. Criminal History and Occupational License Notice If you are applying for admission to a program that may prepare you for an occupational license and/or if you later decide to change to such a program, Texas law requires that Baylor notify you of your potential ineligibility to obtain a license due to prior criminal convictions. Additional information can be found in Baylor’s Undergraduate Admission page here or the Texas.Gov site here. Relocating or moving to another state during a professional licensure program may impact whether you can remain in the program, meet the state licensure requirements, and/or continue to receive financial aid funding. Additional information can be found here or by calling The Office of Professional Education at 254-710-8367. About Staff Directory Calendar State Authorizations & Licenses Professional Licensure Disclosure by Program General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Professional Education Mailing Address: Baylor University Professional Education One Bear Place #97071 Waco TX 76798-7071 Physical Address: Pat Neff Hall Suite 304 1320 S. 7th St. Waco, TX 76706 Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Staff Directory Calendar State Authorizations & Licenses Professional Licensure Disclosure by Program Student Resources Student Services and Benefits Online Student Withdrawal Tech Support FAQs Tips for Online Students Academic Integrity Degrees and Programs Continuing Education Department Resources