Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Research Featured Research Global Health Justice and Governance Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. COVID-19 Data Science Urban Health Climate and Health Global Health Justice and Governance Aging Food Systems and Public Health COVID-19 Data Science Urban Health Climate and Health Global Health Justice and Governance Aging Food Systems and Public Health Global Health Justice and Governance Program About The Global Health Justice and Governance Program (GHJG) is a university-wide initiative housed in the Heilbrunn Department of Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. GHJG addresses complex public health challenges by advancing justice in the areas of gender, environment, and food. The program integrates public health, legal, and scientific scholarship and practice from across Columbia University to promote, protect, and fulfill the right to health. GHJG seeks to affect change at the interface of public health, justice, and governance, which is unique among schools of public health. By analyzing how standards – whether they are existing, missing, formal, or informal – either promote or hinder justice in health outcomes, we work towards fulfillment of the human right to health. We are committed to the beliefs that: Social movements and activism are critical to justice and human rights, improved governance, and accountability. Research should be generated in partnership with affected individuals to influence the governance standards that affect their lives and livelihoods at the intergovernmental or national level. Corporate accountability and transparency are vital to public health. For details about GHJG's activities, publications, events, and more, please visit the GHJG microsite. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Gun Violence Prevention Experts Respond to Mass Shootings May 27 2022 Our Experts Help Explain the Monkeypox OutbreakMay 26 2022 A Q&A With Prof. Merlin ChowkwanyunMay 24 2022 Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers