Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now College of Health Professions and Sciences Health care systems worldwide require well-educated professionals to develop innovative approaches to promote the health and well-being of populations with diverse needs. Through our nationally recognized programs, you’ll develop in-demand skills through practical experiences and research led by respected faculty. And with your degree, you’ll play an important role with a rewarding career in prevention, diagnosis or therapy at hospitals, community-based and specialized-care facilities, schools, and nonprofit and social service agencies. healthprofessions.ucf.edu U.S. News & World Report ranked the college’s Master of Communication Sciences and Disorders and Master of Social Work programs among the top 100 nationwide. No. 1 ranked Sport and Exercise Science doctoral program in Florida by the National Academy of Kinesiology (NAK). The pass rate on the licensure exam for our Doctor of Physical Therapy students was 100% for the past 5 years. Explore your opportunities. There are many benefits to taking a more proactive approach to choosing a career. The College of Health Professions and Sciences has curriculum and programs to help you land your next opportunity. Or browse by: Bachelors Minors Masters Doctorates Graduate Certificates Top College Degrees Top College Degrees Social Work (MSW) Communication Sciences and Disorders (MA) Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) Admissions Info Explore admissions requirements, deadlines, tuition and financial aid, and more. Visit UCF Take a tour of the campus and see what makes UCF so amazing. Apply Now Seeking a bachelor’s degree? Interested in graduate school? Get started today. Health Professions and Sciences News Check out more stories Health & Medicine Survivor Link National Training Program Launches at UCF The program will support nine social work students, developing their ability to respond to domestic violence. Colleges & Campus UCF Opens New Huntington’s Disease Multispecialty Clinic Located in Research Park, the new clinic offers multidisciplinary care from the College of Medicine, School of Social Work, and College of Health Professions and… Community UCF Class Spotlight: Introduction to American Sign Language In honor of National American Sign Language Day, April 15, here’s a look at a course — plus an instructional video — that teaches students… First-Generation College Students Earning a degree transforms lives in remarkable ways for students, their family and for generations to come. Read More University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida