Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Arts (MA) in Counselor Education Join a Nationally Ranked and Accredited Counselor Education Program Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Counslr Educ & Schl Psychology 2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Make a Substantial Difference in the Lives of Others The MA in Counselor Education program at UCF prepares you to practice as a licensed and/or credentialed professional counselor to work with clients of all ages and backgrounds. You will gain the knowledge and skills needed to empower individuals, couples and families to make positive, healthy changes in their lives. The Counselor Education program emphasizes a wellness, multicultural and humanistic approach to the application of evidence-based brief therapies and prevention measures. Nationally recognized faculty with real world experience provide students with the knowledge and self-awareness necessary to excel in this industry. Additionally, you’ll benefit from direct clinical training in our campus-based Community Counseling and Research Center — an award-winning, state-of-the-art clinical training facility that offers free individual, couple and family counseling sessions to members of the Central Florida community. Along with being ranked as one of the top counseling programs in the nation, the master’s in counselor education is accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP). Our graduates go directly into the mental health counseling or school counseling fields — engaging with clients and students at all levels of care and education. Many also hold leadership positions within their field, including local, state and national organizations. Clinical Mental Health Counseling Track This track prepares you to practice in agencies, private practice and other settings with clients presenting with the full range of mental health and behavioral health concerns. During the program, you’ll complete clinical experiences in the UCF Community Counseling and Research Center and field-based experiences in clinical settings throughout the community. Graduates of the program will have met all requirements as outlined by the Florida Department of Medical Quality Assurance for licensure as a mental health counselor. School Counseling Track This track prepares you to work in pre-K through postsecondary school settings with students on academic achievement, personal and social development, and career and college planning. During the program, you’ll complete clinical experiences in the UCF Community Counseling and Research Center and field-based experiences in elementary, middle, or high school settings throughout the community. Graduates of this Florida state-approved teacher preparation program will have met all requirements as outlined by the Florida Department of Education for certification as a school counselor. Related Programs: Marriage, Couple and Family Therapy, MA Counselor Education, School Counseling Track, MEd Education, School Counseling Track, EdS Education, Counselor Education Track, PhD Request Information Highlights Ranked as one of the top 20 counseling programs in the nation by U.S. News & World Report. UCF’s counselor education program is one of the largest in the southeast and has been internationally recognized with multiple awards for its innovative practices and outstanding faculty. The demand for mental health counselors, substance abuse counselors and those working with behavioral disorders is expected to grow by 25 percent through 2029. Mental health counselors, substance abuse counselors and school counselors earn an annual average salary of $45K. Application Deadlines Fall February 1 Spring September 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Addictions Counseling Explore an examination within systematic, theoretical framework of the function that a substance, individual and the environment play in use and abuse of illicit and licit substances. Foundations of Multicultural Counseling Review knowledge and research pertaining to multicultural counseling and social justice issues, develop skills and personal awareness, and examine attributes that affect counseling diverse populations. Foundations of Trauma & Crisis Counseling Get an overview of the effects of crisis, disasters and trauma on diverse individuals across the lifespan, focusing on trauma-specific counseling interventions and trauma-informed counseling strategies. The amount of uncertainty that is prevalent in today’s society is impacting clients in significant ways and at alarming rates. Increased levels of anxiety, depression, relational discord and addiction are being seen in children, adolescents, adults, couples and families. As such, there is a call for competent mental health counselors, school counselors and marriage and family therapists to help guide clients and students through their current situations while maximizing their health and ability to thrive." — Dr. W. Bryce Hagedorn, Counselor Education faculty member Counselor Education Skills You'll Learn Gain a solid background in the counseling profession that is based on research and current best practices. Ability to listen deeply, with intentionality, while using evidenced-based theoretical frameworks. Enhance students’ empathy and ability to demonstrate congruence, compassion and respect. Help students practice self-knowledge, including recognizing personal limits, valuing and implementing wellness and practicing self-care. Prepare for licensure (all licensure and certification requirements are met (or exceeded) for Florida and beyond). Career Opportunities Mental Health Counselor School Counselor Career Counselor Substance Abuse Counselor College of Community Innovation and Education News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches… Colleges & Campus Dean Named for the College of Community Innovation and Education Grant Hayes, interim provost and senior vice chancellor for Academic Affairs at East Carolina University, starts at UCF Aug. 1. Science & Technology New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and… Colleges & Campus Former Foster Care Child, Now Mother of 3 Reaches Goal of Becoming Teacher Recent spring graduate Jeanette Marie Reynoso shares her unlikely path to achieving her dream. Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Masters Counselor Education (MA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Counselor Education (MA) program offered at UCF. Loading... University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida