Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Administration & Staff History ML - Memphis Law Magazine Strategic Plan Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity HomeTIPMPDPPlus ProgramSTAIScholarships Facilities Facilities OverviewVirtual TourFloor PlansPhoto Gallery News & Events Law School NewsOn Legal Grounds BlogML-Memphis Law MagazineEvents CalendarCommunications OfficeProgram Rankings Directions Contact Us Media ResourceGeneral Contact InfoFaculty & Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home School of Law About Neighborhoods Neighborhoods & Communities Variety, as they say, is the spice of life, and Memphis has gotta be one of the spiciest cities around. Variety can be found throughout the city: From the towering trees in Shelby Forest and Overton Park to the metal towers in metropolitan downtown, the Memphis area offers everything you could want and more. Variety can be found not only in the landscaping, history, and music of the city but also in the character of each neighborhood: Each has its own personality that distinguishes it from all the others. This is a brief peek at several of our neighborhood communities. You may want to visit the county's neighborhood directory to help you discover the perfect place to call home. Downtown Downtown is one of the most eclectic, diverse, and exciting places around, not to mention the home of Memphis Law. With a range of entertainment options that includes all types of music, art, theater, and dance, downtown is a fascinating cultural hub. Famous Beale Street offers great food, cool drinks, and hot Memphis music. The history behind the influential area is preserved in a number of museums and historical spots. Downtown also has plenty of family friendly activities and entertainment. FedExForum attracts some of the most popular touring musical acts in the world, and the Memphis Grizzlies and University of Memphis Tigers Basketball team are great attractions for sports fans. Excitment in Downtown Memphis is just a short walk or trolley ride away. Downtown's prime riverside real estate is made up of several dynamic neighborhoods, including Harbor Town on Mud Island, South Bluffs, the South Main Historic Arts District, and the South End. Zip codes: 38103, 38104, and 38105 Miles from airport: 9 Population: 42,984 Average home prices: 38103: $223,479 38104: $174,868 38105: $60,084 Midtown Midtown is another great area full of eclectic atmospheres, cultural opportunities, and beautiful scenery. Historic Cooper-Young has excellent food, drink, and entertainment, including plenty of opportunities for live music at Young Avenue Deli, and the widest collection of indie movies at Black Lodge Video. Cooper-Young has almost every cultural opportunity a person could want. Overton Square is another area of Midtown that offers great food with places such as Bari Ristorante, Boscos Squared, Lafayette's, Golden India, Le Chardonnay, Babalu, Local Gastropub, Memphis Pizza Cafe, and the Bayou Bar and Grill. Overton Square is also home to the Malco movie theater Studio on the Square. Other places of note in Midtown include the Memphis Zoo, the Brooks Museum of Art, Memphis College of Art, the Levitt Shell and Overton Park and Golf Course. The University of Memphis main campus, Rhodes College, and Christian Brothers University also reside near Midtown. Midtown/Chickasaw Gardens Zip codes: 38111, 38112 Miles from airport: 6 Population: 60,409 Average home prices: 38111: $125,970 38112: $116,252 East Memphis East Memphis is a commercial and residential powerhouse. There are many thriving businesses and great shopping opportunities in this neighborhood, with the Laurelwood shopping center housing some of the upscale stores in the area, as does the nearby Regalia shopping center, with stores such as Vineyard Vines and Oak Hall. Surrounding boutiques, shops, and restaurants dot the area. With Audubon Park, the Memphis Botanic Garden, the Dixon Gallery and Gardens, and Lichterman Nature Center, there's no shortage of natural beauty and lovely surroundings in East Memphis. East Memphis Zip codes: 38117, 38119 and 38120 Miles from airport: 6 Population: 63,348 Average home prices: 38117: $199,417 38119: $160,197 38120: $308,105 To find out more about the neighborhoods in the Memphis community, including the suburban areas of Bartlett, Germantown, Collierville, Arlington and more, please CLICK HERE to learn more Sources: Tetrad, 2013 Population Estimates Chandler Reports, 2013 Average Home Prices Page Updated October 2014. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/29/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.