Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Office of the Senior Vice President and Provost Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search News Index Faculty Handbook About Us People Strategic Plan Budget and Planning Reporting Units Committees and Councils Reports Initiatives ACE Learner Success Lab Project Course Material Affordability Faculty Climate Workgroup Term Faculty Implementation New Student Onboarding Campus Climate Academic Programs Academic Advising Advising Awards Accreditation/Academic Program Reviews Higher Learning Commission (HLC) Updates HLC 2019-2020 Year 4 Assurance Review Academic Program Review: Purpose and Process Assessment Program Assessment Resources Navigate EAB Navigate FAQ Global Academic Programs High Impact Practices and Student Success Initiatives Policies and Procedures Prep Week and Finals Week Experiential Learning and Internships New Program Approval Procedures - Majors/Curricula/Degrees New Program Approval Procedures - Minors New Program Approval Procedures - Undergraduate Certificates Program Discontinuation Procedures University Studies Program Faculty Success Faculty Recruitment, Hiring, and Retention Faculty Appointment Types Emeritus/a Resources Emeritus/a Faculty Visiting Scholars Institutional Data COACHE Dual Career Resources Named Faculty Positions Administrative Searches FISIP ASPIRE Faculty Compensation Work-Life Integration Managing Family Needs FMDA Extension of Tenure-Clock Partner Opportunity Hire Faculty Development All Faculty NCFDD Big 12 Faculty Fellowship Program Mentoring Exemplary Faculty Mentors College Peer Mentors Fulbright Program New Faculty Term Faculty Tenure-Eligible FPDA Early Career Mid-Career Advanced Career Academic Leadership Administrative Fellowship Program Department Chairs Faculty Advancement and Review Annual Evaluation Term Faculty Term Faculty Approved for Advancement Preliminary Review Promotion and Tenure Faculty Approved for Promotion and/or Tenure Post Tenure Review Honors and Awards External Honors and Awards Past Award Recipients University Honors and Awards Faculty Awards Staff Awards Help and Resources FAQ General Policies and Guidelines Faculty Handbook Conflicts of Interest and Commitment Administrative Officers Required Syllabus Statement on Free Expression Syllabus Statement FAQ Iowa House File 802 - Requirements Related to Racism and Sexism Trainings Provost's Office Communications Spring 2022 Message for Instructors Index Dual Career Resources Iowa State University is committed to recruiting and retaining the highest quality faculty and staff. We also recognize that our faculty and staff seek to combine a stimulating academic career with a satisfying personal life. The Office of the Senior Vice President and Provost, in collaboration with colleges and departments, is dedicated to working with our new faculty and senior-level administrators to assist in their transition to central Iowa. Our Dual Career Resources provide partners and spouses of faculty and senior administrators with support in identifying employment opportunities both on campus and the surrounding communities. Note: Our Dual Career Resources are available for those partners/spouses seeking employment, but we cannot guarantee job placement. Who qualifies for our resources? Partners and spouses of new tenure-eligible faculty members and senior-level administrators Partners and spouses who are part of a strategic recruitment or hiring effort Partners and spouses who have lived in the area for less than a year Resources for Deans and Department Chairs What resources do we provide? Faculty employment opportunities on campus which require partial funding from the Senior Vice President and Provost. These requests are evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Non-faculty employment opportunities on campus through individual consultation with Iowa State's University Human Resources. How do these resources work? For assistance in exploring existing on-campus non-faculty employment opportunities, the department chair and/or dean contacts the office of the Associate Provost for Faculty to make the referral and to provide basic information about the status of the search. The Associate Provost for Faculty assists the spouse/partner in making contact with an HR specialist in University Human Resources. Workflow for making partner opportunity hires (DOC, 22KB) For assistance in exploring off-campus employment opportunities, the department chair and/or dean contacts the office of the Associate Provost for Faculty to make the referral and to provide basic information about the status of the search. The Associate Provost for Faculty assists the spouse/partner in making contact with our external consultant, Terri Deems, of WorkLife Design, Inc., who will provide career coaching. The cost of the program ($2,000) is split by the hiring unit and the Senior Vice President and Provost. NOTE: WorkLife Design, Inc., offers career coaching and is not a placement agency. If a faculty position is identified, the department chair and/or dean submit to the Associate Provost for Faculty a request for partial salary support using the standard request form (DOC, 67KB). These requests are evaluated on a case-by-case basis. See Salary Support for Strategic Faculty Recruitment and Partner Opportunity Hires for more information. Resources for Faculty, Partners, and Spouses What resources do we provide? Our institution is a member of the Central Midwest Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (HERC). Visit the Central Midwest HERC website to search for open positions within a commutable distance of our institution. Employment opportunities off campus in surrounding communities with the support of a university-contracted career coach. Our partner, WorkLife Design Inc., will help the spouse or partner to: Identify what they do best and most enjoy doing Explore values, environment, and lifestyle goals Identify career and job options Position themselves effectively in today's marketplace Improve their resume writing Prepare for interviews Write strategic letters and plan follow-up activities Network effectively Negotiate offers Stay energized during the JobGettingTM process, Start off on the right foot in their new position Explore self-employment as an option How do these resources work? For assistance in exploring on-campus faculty employment opportunities, the primary faculty member should discuss the dual career need with the department chair to determine what options are possible. If a faculty position is identified, the department chair and/or dean submit to the Associate Provost for Faculty a request for partial salary support using the standard request form (DOC, 67KB). These requests are evaluated on a case-by-case basis. See Salary Support for Strategic Faculty Recruitment and Partner Opportunity Hires for more information. Job Search Resources Iowa State University jobs Central Midwest HERC Iowa Workforce Development State of Iowa jobs Federal jobs: USAJOBS Government Jobs in Iowa Other job search sites: HigherEd360 NationJob Ames Chamber of Commerce Greater Des Moines Partnership (Des Moines Chamber of Commerce) Related Resources Iowa State University career services ISU ADVANCE Program Member of the Cyclone Chapter of the Society for Human Resource Managers Contact: Megan Peterson, Administrative Assistant, 515-294-6410, meganmp@iastate.edu Dawn Bratsch-Prince, Associate Provost for Faculty, 515-294-6410, deprince@iastate.edu Office of the Senior Vice President and Provost 515 Morrill Road 1550 Beardshear Hall Ames, IA 50011-2021 provost@iastate.edu 515-294-9591 Social Media Directory Twitter Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information