Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Accelerated Pathways Accelerated Pathways to MUSC Professional Health Degrees Welcome to the Accelerated Pathways to MUSC Professional Health Degrees homepage. Here you will find the most updated information on this strategic partnership designed to reduce total student tuition burden and to retain within South Carolina the most talented Clemson students. To set up an appointment with the Health Professions Advising Office, please complete this form. This site includes the following Accelerated Pathway programs: 3 years at Clemson + 4 years at MUSC programs: Accelerated Pathway to Medical School (MD) Accelerated Pathway to Dental School (DMD) Accelerated Pathway to the Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD) 3 years at Clemson + 3 years at MUSC program: Accelerated Pathway to the Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) Accelerated Pathway to Doctor of Occupational Therapy (OTD) 3 years at Clemson + 2 years at MUSC program: Accelerated Pathway to the Master in Health Administration (MHA) Accelerated Pathway to the MS in Cardiovascular Perfusion (MS-CVP) 4 years at Clemson + 1 year at MUSC programs: Accelerated Pathway to the Master in Public Health (MPH) in Biostatistics Accelerated Pathway to the Master in Public Health (MPH) in Epidemiology Accelerated Pathway to the Master in Public Health (MPH) in Health Behavior and Health Promotion MUSC Accelerated Pathways Timelines Medicine • Intent to Participate form needs to be completed by the beginning of the 2nd semester of your second year (January 30) • Clemson students must take the Medical College Admissions Test (MCAT) prior to June 30 following completion of the sophomore year (for Early Decision applicants) or prior to July 30 following their sophomore year (for Regular Admission applicants). • Pathway students must complete 90 semester hours prior to admission to MUSC. The 90 semester hours of undergraduate education may include up to 30 of the semester hours from another institution prior to admission to Clemson. The final 60 semester hours, and at least two of the three years of preprofessional work, including the third year, must be taken in residence at Clemson. These 90 hours must include all general education courses required by Clemson and any applicable REACH Act requirements along with any prerequisite courses required by the participating MUSC degree program. Dental • Intent to Participate form needs to be completed by the beginning of the 2nd semester of your second year (January 30) • Clemson students must take the Dental Admissions Test (DAT) following completion of their second year. • All applicants to the MUSC College of Dental Medicine must complete their AADSAS application between June 1st following their second year and prior to December 1 of their third year • All applicants must submit a complete supplemental application between July 1st following their second year and prior to December 1st of their third year. • Pathway students must complete 90 semester hours prior to admission to MUSC. The 90 semester hours of undergraduate education may include up to 30 of the semester hours from another institution prior to admission to Clemson. The final 60 semester hours, and at least two of the three years of preprofessional work, including the third year, must be taken in residence at Clemson. These 90 hours must include all general education courses required by Clemson and any applicable REACH Act requirements along with any prerequisite courses required by the participating MUSC degree program. Pharmacy • Intent to Participate form needs to be completed by the beginning of the 2nd semester of your second year (January 30) • Clemson students must take the Pharmacy College Admissions Test (PCAT), though it is not required by MUSC, following completion of their second year (July 30) • All applicants to the MUSC College of Pharmacy must complete their PharmCas application after their second year (July 30) • Pathway students must complete 90 semester hours prior to admission to MUSC. The 90 semester hours of undergraduate education may include up to 30 of the semester hours from another institution prior to admission to Clemson. The final 60 semester hours, and at least two of the three years of preprofessional work, including the third year, must be taken in residence at Clemson. These 90 hours must include all general education courses required by Clemson and any applicable REACH Act requirements along with any prerequisite courses required by the participating MUSC degree program. Physical Therapy • Intent to Participate form needs to be completed by the beginning of the 2nd semester of your second year (January 30) • Clemson students must take the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) following completion of their second year (July 30) • All applicants must complete a DPT program application, through the Physical Therapist Centralized Application Service (PTCAS), between July 1st following their second year and prior to October 1st of their third year • Pathway students must complete 90 semester hours prior to admission to MUSC. The 90 semester hours of undergraduate education may include up to 30 of the semester hours from another institution prior to admission to Clemson. The final 60 semester hours, and at least two of the three years of preprofessional work, including the third year, must be taken in residence at Clemson. These 90 hours must include all general education courses required by Clemson and any applicable REACH Act requirements along with any prerequisite courses required by the participating MUSC degree program. Occupational Therapy • Intent to Participate form needs to be completed by the beginning of the 2nd semester of your second year (January 30) • Clemson students must take the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) following completion of their second year (July 30) • All applicants must complete a OTD program application, through the Occupational Therapist Centralized Application Service (OTCAS), between July 1st following their second year and prior to November 2nd of their third year • Pathway students must complete 90 semester hours prior to admission to MUSC. The 90 semester hours of undergraduate education may include up to 30 of the semester hours from another institution prior to admission to Clemson. The final 60 semester hours, and at least two of the three years of preprofessional work, including the third year, must be taken in residence at Clemson. These 90 hours must include all general education courses required by Clemson and any applicable REACH Act requirements along with any prerequisite courses required by the participating MUSC degree program. Cardiovascular Perfusion • Intent to Participate form needs to be completed by the beginning of the 2nd semester of your second year (January 30) • Clemson students must take the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) following completion of their second year (July 30) • The MS CVP application and any supplemental application should be submitted after July 1st following their second year and before January 1st of the third year • These 90 hours must include all general education courses required by Clemson and any applicable REACH Act requirements along with any prerequisite courses required by the participating MUSC degree program by the end of their third year Health Administration • Intent to Participate form needs to be completed by the beginning of the 2nd semester of your second year (January 30) • The MUSC MHA application between July 1st following their second year and before April 1st of the third year • Pathway students must complete 90 semester hours prior to admission to MUSC. The 90 semester hours of undergraduate education may include up to 30 of the semester hours from another institution prior to admission to Clemson. The final 60 semester hours, and at least two of the three years of preprofessional work, including the third year, must be taken in residence at Clemson. These 90 hours must include all general education courses required by Clemson and any applicable REACH Act requirements along with any prerequisite courses required by the participating MUSC degree program. Public Health (Biostatistics) • Intent to Participate form needs to be completed by the beginning of the 2nd semester of your second year (January 30) • The MUSC MPH application between December 1st and before June 1st of the fourth year • Clemson students, as early as their first year (after grades are posted for one semester) through their third year are expected to meet with the BS-MPH Program Coordinator, a faculty member in the Clemson University Department of Public Health Sciences. Public Health (Epidemiology) • Intent to Participate form needs to be completed by the beginning of the 2nd semester of your second year (January 30) • The MUSC MPH application between December 1st and before June 1st of the fourth year • Clemson students, as early as their first year (after grades are posted for one semester) through their third year are expected to meet with the BS-MPH Program Coordinator, a faculty member in the Clemson University Department of Public Health Sciences. Public Health (Health Behavior & Health Promotion) • Intent to Participate form needs to be completed by the beginning of the 2nd semester of your second year (January 30) • The MUSC MPH application between December 1st and before June 1st of the fourth year • Clemson students, as early as their first year (after grades are posted for one semester) through their third year are expected to meet with the BS-MPH Program Coordinator, a faculty member in the Clemson University Department of Public Health Sciences Programs without Provisional Admission The majority of the above programs do not provide provisional admission, guaranteed admission, or preference compared with all other applicants to the professional schools. These accelerated pathways do provide students an opportunity to potentially eliminate one year of study, and the associated tuition, in their total undergraduate-professional program. These include the 3+4 programs, the 3+3 program, and the MS-CVP program. Programs with Provisional Admission The MHA and each of the MPH programs do grant provisional admission to students meeting eligibility requirements as early as their freshman year at Clemson. Students provisionally admitted to the program must maintain eligibility and achieve each progression guideline. Once a student achieves the progression guidelines, the student’s status changes from “provisionally accepted” to “accepted”. These accelerated pathways provide students an opportunity to potentially eliminate one year of study, and the associated tuition, in their total undergraduate-professional program Program Details All students are required to meet with the Health Professions Advising Office (HPA) prior to applying for any MUSC program offered through the accelerated pathways program. For specific program details, please click on the link for the program of interest. The website describes the program, eligibility criteria, application procedures, and student responsibilities. Students must read and follow the application process carefully; applications must include mandatory signatures. Health Professions Advising (HPA) - source on information and required signatures Each MUSC Accelerated Pathway programs differ in structure, eligibility, application process, and progression criteria (where applicable). Students must contact the Health Professions Advising Office (HPA) to request a planning meeting following the timelines recommended. Frequently Asked Questions What is the purpose of this program and why should I choose it? The purpose of the MUSC Accelerated Pathways to professional health degrees is to reduce the total student tuition debt while retaining the best and brightest students in South Carolina. This is accomplished by eliminating an academic year for competitive students, who are ready to transition early to MUSC. When and how can I sign up for these programs? Each program is structured differently, so the timeline for expressing your interest varies with some occurring as early as the fall semester of your first year at Clemson. Please review the necessary timelines then request an advising appointment with the Health Professional Advising Office (HPA) to discuss the program you are interested in and the necessary steps to proceed. What major should I enroll in to pursue these programs? It is possible to pursue these programs through any degree-granting major at Clemson; however, some degree programs are more accommodating of the prerequisite coursework required by MUSC than others. Students are encouraged to meet with the Health Professions Advising Office (HPA) and consult with departmental advisors regarding how prerequisite coursework may be accommodated within the curriculum. What degree will I earn from Clemson? In most MUSC Accelerated Pathways, the students transition to MUSC before earning a Clemson undergraduate degree. The student then earns a Clemson baccalaureate degree after successful completion of one year of professional studies. This question is addressed in the Undergraduate Announcements in the Academic Regulations section titled Pre-Professional Health Studies and Preprofessional Studies. Students MUST meet Registrar deadlines, fees and other requirements. Upon receipt of this information, the Registrar will contact the appropriate College for which the student had studied at Clemson. It is up to the discretion of the College faculty to determine if a student has earned a baccalaureate degree in a specific discipline (e.g. health sciences, biological sciences) or should be awarded a degree in Preprofessional studies. Who do I contact for more information about the MUSC Accelerated Pathways? Students interested in learning more about the MUSC Accelerated Pathways should: (1) Contact the Health Professions Advising Office (HPA) at cuhpa@clemson.edu, and/or (2) Attend one of the regularly conducted information sessions (announced on this website and other venues on campus). What happens if I am not accepted into an MUSC professional degree program through the MUSC Accelerated Pathway program? The MUSC Accelerated Pathway programs are very competitive. If you are not accepted into the MUSC professional degree program via this opportunity, you may be encouraged (by MUSC) to apply via the normal process. You will not have a disadvantage in the normal application process but will complete your baccalaureate at Clemson prior to transition to MUSC. What happens if I am provisionally admitted but miss a progression guideline or an eligibility requirement? Four (Masters in Health Administration, Masters in Public Health-3 degrees) of the MUSC Accelerated Pathway programs grant students provisional admission to MUSC as early as the Clemson freshman year. Provisionally admitted students must maintain eligibility and meet progression guidelines to remain in that specific Accelerated Pathway. The process for monitoring student attainment of progression guidelines and eligibility requirements is outlined in the program timeline. Please read the respective timelines carefully. In some cases, students failing to meet progression criteria can be removed from the MUSC Accelerated Pathway program. If this happens, students may be encouraged (by MUSC) to apply via the normal application process but will complete their baccalaureate at Clemson prior to transition to MUSC. Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram