Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law In the global economy, the complex relationships among boards, banks, investors, management, and other stakeholders create a shifting legal landscape for businesses—which demands lawyers who are agile advisers, strategists, dealmakers, and problem-solvers. How do lawyers help their clients navigate the complex legal frameworks and challenges facing corporations, entrepreneurs, financiers, and shareholders? New York City, the world’s commercial and financial capital, is the ideal place for students to investigate crucial and emerging legal and organizational issues facing businesses of all kinds and to pursue the broad range of career opportunities in the private sector. Why Columbia? Learn from Law School faculty members known for their groundbreaking scholarship and advisory roles in areas such as bankruptcy, capital markets, contracts, fintech, mergers and acquisitions, real estate, securities regulation, tax, and white-collar crime. Participate in interdisciplinary Deals Workshops, taught by lawyers from top New York firms, and develop skills for structuring and implementing business transactions to create value, manage risk, and promote clients’ interests. Serve as research fellows in centers such as the Ira M. Millstein Center for Global Markets and Corporate Governance and the Center for Law and Economic Studies. Attend conferences hosted by centers affiliated with Columbia Business School such as the Richard Paul Richman Center for Business, Law, and Public Policy and programming from the Reuben Mark Initiative and its In-House Counsel Program exploring the role of the general counsel and chief legal officer. Gain real-world experience working in clinics and externships, including under general counsel at established corporations or start-ups in the In-House Counsel Externship. Contribute to the influential Blue Sky Blog, which is devoted to timely writing on corporations and capital markets, with guidance from faculty. Related Links Explore Courses Three-Year J.D./MBA Program Four-Year J.D./MBA Program Executive LL.M. in Global Business Law Related Faculty All Faculty John C. Coffee, Jr. Adolf A. Berle Professor of Law Merritt B. Fox Arthur Levitt Professor of Law Talia Gillis Associate Professor of Law Ronald J. Gilson Marc and Eva Stern Professor of Law and Business Jeffrey N. Gordon Richard Paul Richman Professor of Law Zohar Goshen Jerome L. Greene Professor of Transactional Law Director, Center for Israeli Legal Studies Michael Graetz Columbia Alumni Professor Emeritus of Tax Law Kathryn Judge Harvey J. Goldschmid Professor of Law Avery W. Katz Milton Handler Professor of Law and Reuben Mark Professor of Organizational Character Jody Kraus Patricia D. and R. Paul Yetter Professor of Law Ronald Mann Albert E. Cinelli Enterprise Professor of Law Justin McCrary Paul J. Evanson Professor of Law Joshua Mitts Associate Professor of Law and Milton Handler Fellow Edward R. Morrison Charles Evans Gerber Professor of Law Lynnise E. Pantin Pritzker Pucker Family Clinical Professor of Transactional Law Katharina Pistor Edwin B. Parker Professor of Comparative Law Andrzej Rapaczynski Daniel G. Ross Professor of Law; Joseph Solomon Professor of Wills, Trusts, and Estate Planning Alex Raskolnikov Wilbur H. Friedman Professor of Tax Law Charles F. Sabel Maurice T. Moore Professor of Law David M. Schizer Dean Emeritus and Harvey R. Miller Professor of Law Robert Scott Alfred McCormack Professor of Law, Emeritus Eric Talley Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law Victor P. Goldberg Jerome L. Greene Professor Emeritus of Transactional Law All Faculty Listing Related Centers and Programs All Centers and Programs Center for Contract and Economic Organization The Center for Contract and Economic Organization capitalizes on the synergies between the Law School’s experts in contracts, commercial transactions, and business organizations and scholars throughout Columbia University who study contract theory and the economics of information. Through scholarly collaboration, the center contributes to existing knowledge and sponsors a host of ongoing initiatives, including visiting fellowships, workshops, and conferences. Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Center on Corporate Governance The Center on Corporate Governance brings together judges, academics, regulators, and institutional investors to discuss cutting-edge issues related to securities law and corporate governance. The center also sponsors the CLS Blue Sky Blog, which covers corporate governance, financial regulation, restructuring, antitrust, and related topics. Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Center for International Commercial & Investment Arbitration The Center for International Commercial & Investment Arbitration furthers the teaching and study of international arbitration. Through research and collaborations with other like-minded institutions worldwide, the center develops effective methods of resolving international disputes and encouraging international commerce and exchange. The center also prepares students and young professionals interested in arbitration and dispute resolution for careers in the field. Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law International and Comparative Law Litigation and Dispute Resolution Center for Law and Economic Studies The Center for Law and Economic Studies’ basic mandate is to develop interdisciplinary research and teaching programs in order to shed new light on the “fundamental economic and legal problems of the modern industrial society.” Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Ira M. Millstein Center for Global Markets and Corporate Ownership The Millstein Center operates at the forefront of new thinking about how corporations are governed. The center engages with business leaders and board directors to create meaningful dialogue about the challenges companies face, and to be a focal point for the most innovative research into the policy solutions required to tackle those challenges. Its mission is twofold: to help corporate leaders successfully navigate challenges facing their companies and to bridge the gap between academics and practitioners by developing practical solutions to corporate ownership issues. Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Program in the Law and Economics of Capital Markets The Program in the Law and Economics of Capital Markets connects the disparate work of lawyers and economists in the field of capital markets regulation by fostering interdisciplinary scholarship. The program has four areas of focus: a capital markets course, a comprehensive study on policymaking and academic research in markets, workshops for government officials and industry experts, and two published books. Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law The Reuben Mark Initiative for Organizational Character and Leadership In-House Counsel Program The Reuben Mark Initiative for Organizational Character and Leadership leverages the intellectual capital of Columbia Business School and Columbia Law School to design courses and programs that teach the leadership skills and strategies necessary to create an optimal organizational culture. The initiative’s In-House Counsel Program offers students innovative and rich courses, research, and programming exploring the role of the in-house counsel as strategic partners and leaders within companies and organizations. Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Leadership Richard Paul Richman Center for Business, Law, and Public Policy The Richard Paul Richman Center for Business, Law, and Public Policy—a joint venture of Columbia Law School and Columbia Business School—fosters dialogue and debate at the intersection of business, law, and public policy. Columbia faculty involved with the center conduct rigorous curricular and research initiatives in order to produce real-world solutions to complex interdisciplinary challenges. The center’s offerings also include a dual J.D./MBA degree, an executive education program, a Blue Sky Workshop that facilitates knowledge sharing, public lectures, conferences, and forums. Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law All Centers and Programs Experiential Learning Opportunities All Experiential Learning Externship Economic Justice Externships Areas of Study Social Justice and Human Rights Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Clinic Entrepreneurship and Community Development Clinic Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Intellectual Property and Technology Leadership Social Justice and Human Rights Externship IP/Arts Externships Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Intellectual Property and Technology Litigation and Dispute Resolution Externship Multinational Externships Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Law of the Workplace Externship Non-Litigation Externships Areas of Study Intellectual Property and Technology Data Analytics Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law All Experiential Learning at Columbia Law Public Interest/Public Service No matter what your area of interest, find ways to incorporate public interest and public service into your academic program and career. Academics Careers Related Student Groups and Journals Columbia Antitrust Law and Economics Association Columbia Business and Law Association Columbia Business Law Review Columbia International Arbitration Association Columbia Journal of Tax Law Columbia Latin America Business Law Association Columbia Law and Entrepreneurship Society Columbia Real Estate Law Society Society for Economic Analysis of Law Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Research and Scholarship News Beyond “Unprecedented”: The Post-Pandemic Economy In Columbia Law School’s new podcast, hosted by Professor Eric Talley, hear from leading experts as they chart a course for economic recovery in the wake of the pandemic and suggest new ways of approaching law, policy, and governance. In The Press Is Musk Getting Cold Feet About Acquiring Twitter? Eric Talley | Bloomberg Law Podcast Alumni News Bobbie J. Wilson ’90: Pursuing Passions With Practicality in Mind In The Press The Twitter Board Bears Personal Responsibility for a Bad Outcome in the Twitter Sale Jeffrey N. Gordon | The CLS Blue Sky Blog Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.