SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Scholarships Student Organizations Events Latino Leadership Initiative Scholarships Student Organizations Events Latino Leadership Initiative Leaders in Diversity 2022 Awards "It's the type of diversity, a diversity of thought, that better prepares the World leaders that we shape at SMU." Steve Denson Assistant Dean of Diversity Play Video > Play Video Educating A Diverse Community of Leaders Director of Diversity Steve Denson provides strategic direction and coordination to all activities that recruit and support under-represented students for all Cox programs. The department's most unique program is the Native American Initiative aimed to actively reach out to Native Americans by providing resources and information about the opportunities of a business education. The department also maintains active relationships with organizations such as the National Black MBA Association, Prospanica, and Reaching Out as well as maintaining relationships with local Dallas organizations and initiatives. SMU Cox Diversity & Inclusion News More Cox News Women in Leadership – Leading with Strength & Impact to Change Bias Against Women Leaders Dr. Candice Bledsoe and Ana Rodriguez join Ivy Exec to review specific examples of bias, discuss research-backed recommendations for what to do to combat these biases and propose actionable steps toward a more equitable (and profitable) workplace. Learn More Women’s Path to Leadership and the Power of the MBA Women hold just six percent of CEO roles at F500 companies (that’s 31 women vs. 469 men); of those 31 women, nearly half have MBAs. To talk about what’s happening on the ground level, Jill Melton and Annie Cadigan Dunlap join host Graham Richmond. Learn More 11 SMU Cox Student Leaders Advocating For Workplace Diversity Workplace diversity and inclusion efforts only work when everyone has a seat at the table. These student-led organizations are creating space for these efforts at SMU Cox School of Business and beyond. Learn More Jump To A Section Scholarships Student Organizations Graduate Student Clubs Undergraduate Organizations Scholarships SMU and Cox are committed to making the Cox programs financially attainable to all. For example, through the generous support of our Cox School endowment and scholarship funds, approximately 60 percent of the Cox full-time MBA student body is awarded a scholarship each year. These scholarships make a private school education at a reputable university affordable. Scholarships range from 10 percent – 100 percent of the cost of tuition and fees. For more information on all scholarship, please visit our Admissions pages. Student Organizations SMU Cox is home to several different student-run organization both at the undergraduate and graduate level committed to supporting and increasing diversity at Cox School of Business. Throughout the year, these student run clubs host networking and professional development events and are open to all students. Examples of events are pictured below and include: Students from SMU's Graduate Women in Business club attending a National Associate of Women MBAs event in Houston SMU Cox hosting the National Association of Black Accountants' (NABA) 15th Annual Accounting Career Awareness Program Graduate Student Clubs Black Graduate Student Association The Cox School of Business Black Graduate Student Association is a diverse network of students, alumni, faculty, staff, and community business partners with a membership that is open to students across all of the Cox Graduate Business Programs. Throughout the year the BGSA hosts networking, professional development and social events. The BGSA has a primary purpose of increasing awareness and facilitating access to professional development and career opportunities for all members. Cox Christian Fellowship The Cox Fellowship is a non-denominational Christian organization open to all Cox MBAs. Our purpose is to foster a sense of Christian community and support through prayer, fellowship and outreach to create a life-long network of Christian business professionals. Latino Business Club The Latino Business Club is a diverse network of students, alumni, faculty, staff, and community business partners with a membership that is open to students across all of the Cox Business Programs. The primary goal of the Cox LBC is to increase networking opportunities among Cox students and the surrounding business community, as well as to increase awareness and facilitate access to professional development and career opportunities for all members. The Cox LBC hosts networking, professional development and social events throughout the year on and off campus. Jewish Business Club Whether seeking improved access to business contacts within a Jewish context, career advancement or simply to learn from some of the most successful Jewish entrepreneurs in the world, the JBC business program is there for you. Net Impact Net Impact is a community of more than 50,000 student and professional leaders creating positive social and environmental change in the workplace and the world (netimpact.org). We promote a triple bottom line as part of business: people, profit and planet. We promote collaboration between business, institutions, non-profits and individuals to advance strategic solutions to global, societal problems. Cox Net Impact events include the annual, national Net Impact Conference, panel events with area corporate leaders in CSR as speakers, happy hours, and higher level volunteering opportunities. Strategic Alliance This club brings LGBTQ and Straight Allies together to ensure SMU Cox is a supportive educational institution. You don’t have to be LGBT or Q to be involved, we ask only that you come with an attitude of tolerance and acceptance and advocate for those who need a voice. Veterans in Business We are an association of veteran students and supporters of the veteran community, committed to assistingeach other in the transition from the military into a successful career in the private sector. Furthermore, we believe in giving back to SMU’s Cox School of Business and continuing to honor those who serve by assisting local veteran programs. Women in Business The Cox School of Business Women in Business Chapter of the Graduate Women in Business Organization strives to be a support network of friendships and resources for women within the Cox MBA Program. Undergraduate Organizations ALPFA Association of Latino Professionals For America (ALPFA) is a leading professional association, consisting of 44 professional chapters, 160 students chapters, and more than 72,000 members nationwide. Our mission is to empower and develop leaders of character for the nation, in every sector of the global economy. Ascend Ascend is the largest, non-profit Pan-Asian organization for business professionals in North America. Established in 2005, Ascend has grown to serve professionals and corporations across various professions and across multiple industries. Ascend reaches 60,000 people with 34 student chapters and 17 professional chapters located in both the United States and Canada around major business hubs and educational institutions. NABA NABA (National Association of Black Accountants) is a professional business organization offering members opportunities for development in leadership, interpersonal and soft skills. The organization provides networking opportunities for students to interact with a variety of individuals in upper management. Open to all majors, including pre-business freshmen and sophomores. Cox Upcoming Events See All Events SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter