Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Department of Military Leadership About Us Forward Arrow About Us FAQ Back Arrow Back Prospective Cadets Forward Arrow Prospective Cadets Classes Program Requirements Scholarship Information Clubs and Activities Back Arrow Back Current Cadets Forward Arrow Current Cadets Summer Training and Internships Cadet Resources Incentives for Nurses and Doctors Back Arrow Back Alumni Contact Us Forward Arrow Contact Us Prospective Cadet Form Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Department of Military Leadership Frequently Asked Questions About Us show submenu for About Us FAQ Prospective Cadets show submenu for Prospective Cadets Classes Program Requirements Scholarship Information Clubs and Activities Current Cadets show submenu for Current Cadets Summer Training and Internships Cadet Resources Incentives for Nurses and Doctors Alumni Contact Us show submenu for Contact Us Prospective Cadet Form Clemson Home Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Departments Department of Military Leadership About Us Current: FAQ Frequently Asked Questions Do I have to go to basic training to do ROTC? No, absolutely not. No prior military training or experience is required. Basic training is not part of the ROTC program. If you desire to go to basic training, contact your local National Guard or Reserve Recruiter. In Clemson, the Army recruiter's number is 864-654-3888. How much time does ROTC take? Not a great deal for freshmen and sophomores, a little later on for juniors and seniors. For freshmen and sophomores, ROTC meets for one hour a week with a hands-on lab for two additional hours every other week. For junior and senior cadets, class is one hour in the fall and two hours in the spring, with lab for two additional hours every week. Will ROTC conflict with my other classes? No, military science classes are scheduled just like any other class. We have a planned curriculum to work with most common Clemson course requirements, and also to accommodate the ROTC students at Southern Wesleyan and Tri-County Tech. It's not to say that it won't happen, but you will find us very flexible with regard to working through conflicts. What do ROTC students do? Mainly, they are just like any other college student. They earn an academic degree and learn to think and reason at the college level. Along the way, they will learn leadership skills and have experiences that will set them apart from their peers. These skills and experiences will qualify them to become officers in the U.S. Army. Upon graduation, they are placed in job positions as second lieutenants, either on active duty or in the Reserves or National Guard. Can I "major" in ROTC? No. ROTC is taken for elective credit, but you can receive a minor in military leadership by taking all four years of military science as well as a few other related courses. The military science department is part of the College of Business. ROTC students choose a major in any other course of study in which they are interested and qualified. Can I participate in other activities while taking ROTC? Yes! In fact, we highly encourage students to participate in other activities. We subscribe to the total person concept and want well-rounded individuals to lead the Army and the nation into the 21st century. Participating in other activities is one of the criteria looked favorably upon when a student applies for an ROTC scholarship. Clubs, athletics and volunteer activities are all helpful endeavors in developing your leadership skills. Does ROTC offer any extracurricular activities? Yes. The Clemson Rangers, Pershing Rifles, Tiger Platoon, and Scabbard and Blade are all activities that are supported by ROTC. The Ranger Challenge Team, the Army ROTC varsity sport, is another activity to participate in. Our students also form their own intramural sports teams, as well as participating in fundraising and community service projects. How many women are in ROTC? ROTC is an equal opportunity program. We encourage participation without regard to gender, race, origin or religious affiliation. NOTE: Certain eligibility requirements, including citizenship, age restrictions, medical qualifications, etc., must be met in order to earn a commission. Do I have to be a Clemson student to enroll in ROTC? No. Any Clemson, Southern Wesleyan or Tri-County Tech student is free to try ROTC as an elective course offering. Do I have to wear a military uniform while taking ROTC? No, you may wear civilian attire to class on Tuesdays. However, during Thursday's lab time uniforms are required. You will be issued the uniforms and equipment you need free of charge. I heard a huge drill sergeant shaves my head when I join ROTC. Is that true? Here is the deal with regard to hair: We do not cut anyone's hair! You must, however, meet the Army's appearance standards. That may mean, for males, shorter hair than you currently have, but nobody gets his (or her) head shaved. Females must wear their hair up off the collar of the uniform they are wearing. I heard ROTC students have to run every morning at 0500 (That's 5:00 a.m. for most of you). Is this true? No, it's not. Our juniors and seniors, along with all scholarship students, are required to partake in physical training (PT) on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 6:00 to 7:00 a.m. For the rest, it is considered an optional activity. We strongly encourage a healthy lifestyle that incorporates a regular fitness program. Incidentally, we do more than run during our time together. We play sports, do aerobics, complete obstacle courses and participate in many other activities that are fun and get us into good physical condition. I heard that ROTC students are always running around in the woods. Is that true? Not entirely - we do a good portion of our training outdoors. We do enjoy adventure activities such as hiking, rappelling and orienteering. If these types of activities excite you, then register for a class: You have nothing to lose! Do we take field trips in ROTC? Yes, once a semester usually. These trips are called field training exercises, or FTXs for short. These trips are designed for ROTC students in order for them to enhance their leadership skills in a field environment. These trips include training on real Army bases; rides on tanks and helicopters; visits to historic battlefields; etc. Do I have any summer training requirement in ROTC? Yes. During the summer between your junior and senior years of college (normally), all ROTC students will attend LDCA. This five-week leadership experience is the culmination of your training thus far and goes a long way in determining your future as an officer. There are many other summer training opportunities that are entirely optional, such as the Army Airborne or Air Assault schools or the Northern Warfare training camp, to name a few. When does my participation in ROTC begin to incur a military service obligation? For most students, it's the start of your junior year of college. This is when you decide whether or not you want to pursue a commission in the Army. At this time you would sign a contract with the U.S. Army. This applies to two-year scholarship students and all non-scholarship students in the program. A three-year or four-year scholarship winner becomes obligated at the start of their sophomore year. What is the time I owe the Army if I complete ROTC and become an officer? Eight years, but before you leave skid marks running away, let's break it down so it does not appear quite so daunting! These eight years can be fulfilled in a number of ways: three or four years (depending on scholarship status) on active duty, and then the remainder in the Individual Ready Reserve (IRR). Essentially the IRR is a non-active status with no drill requirements. The other option is six years in a drill unit of the Reserves or National Guard, meeting one weekend monthly and two weeks each summer, followed by two years in the IRR. This obligation is federally mandated and is the same obligation across all services. What if I already have prior military service? We accept students with prior experience, and, in fact, in some cases, prior service may be counted toward your ROTC basic course. Army ROTC Copyright © Clemson University Army ROTC | Johnstone Hall, Box 341351, Clemson, S.C. 29634 864-656-3107 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson