Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Life at UC » Student Experiences Set Navigation title in component Student Experiences Essential Resources Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life International Student Experiences What is it like to be an international student at the University of Cincinnati? Ask students who have come here! Monica Bozalongo, Spain, Biochemistry One of the hardest things I’ve ever had to do was coming to the US by myself. It was a big step I wanted to take so I could grow as a person, be independent, and get out of my comfort zone. Monica Bozalongo Biochemistry, 2024 Sagar Tiwari, India, Mechanical Engineering Coming to UC was the most important decision of my life. I didn’t expect much and just came with here with a hope to get a degree + [work] full time upon graduation. However, this place has taught me things I never imagined to know/experience. For me, meeting different people has been the key driver to the UC experience which won’t be possible back home. People who inspire me to put my best self out there and hustle for the next big thing. Sagar Tiwari Mechanical Engineering 2021 Victor Adewopo, Nigeria, Information Technology [My luckiest experience?] Getting admission to University of Cincinnati. … Faculty members here at UC are well diversified into different research areas, and I have been able to learn from different professors while working as a Teaching Assistant. Victor Adewopo Information Technology, 2021 Xinyi Huang, China, Criminal Justice I was born and raised in China and have stayed there for 17 years before moving to Cincinnati for college. Moving to another continent that I had never visited was a tough decision to make. But I’m glad I chose to walk out of my comfort zone at that time. I hope I can always embrace any adventure that is going to pop up in my life. Xinyi Huang Criminal Justice master’s program, 2021 Duc Nguyen, Vietnam, International Business I would say my study abroad experience has taught me a lot about how to be independent. My life will not be the same without coming to the U.S. Duc Nguyen International Business, 2023 Ana Maria Echeverria Jimenez, Guatemala, Fashion Design Before college I would say I was really shy but going to UC has really helped me come out of my shell and I'm much more independent now. Ana Maria Echeverría Jiménez Fashion Design, 2023 Mariangel Betancourt, Venezuela, Information Systems and Entrepreneurship Reflecting on my first year at UC, the amount that I have professionally and personally grown is immense. I have found a place where I belong and I can't wait to keep accomplishing my goals and learning. Mariangel Betancourt Information Systems + Entrepreneurship, 2023 Samuel Thomas, United Arab Emirates, Accounting Moving to United States was by far the hardest thing I had to do in my life. I grew up in Dubai and spent almost 18 years in that place, and leaving everything and everyone I know behind and move to an entirely new country was scary. Though I miss my family every day, UC and Cincinnati have become my supporting family and home. Looking back, I would definitely say it is one of the best decision I've ever taken. Samuel Thomas Accounting, Fall 2020 Start your journey at UC Thousands of students choose to call Cincinnati their home each year, and you can, too. Take the first step and apply to the University of Cincinnati. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top