Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Student Services Veterans Resources and Initiatives Veterans Resources and Initiatives Additional Information Applying to GS as a U.S. Military Veteran Financial Aid for U.S. Military Veterans New Student Veteran Checklist GS Veteran Initiatives Mission Mission To create and foster a transformational environment for veteran, military-connected, and NROTC students by providing a hub of resources and opportunities rooted in ongoing transitional support for a life-long journey of learning and well-being. Core Strategy By recognizing the unique, diverse, and ever-changing needs of the veteran, military-connected, and NROTC student, we are committed to sustaining communication, collaboration, and engagement with the veteran and non-veteran community to provide the supportive platform of opportunities needed for veterans to integrate, participate, and graduate - ultimately pursuing their goals within society. Expand all Collapse all Veteran Programs & Resources GS Veteran Mentoring Program The General Studies Veteran Mentoring Program is designed to facilitate a peer-assistance structure for transitioning veterans into Columbia life. Through this program, student veterans are matched with current veteran student mentors to provide experiential and personal support. 2020 - 2021 GS Veteran Mentors Wes Baisley, Sung Chong, Sean Dugan, Taylor Eval, Zachery Macintyre, Maxwell Martin, Josiah Parkas, Rico Pesce, Rodrigo Soza, Robin Yu To connect with the GS Veteran Mentors please email [email protected]. Campus & Community Resources U.S. Military Veterans of Columbia University (MilVets) (official student group) MilVets provides military veterans with resources, opportunities, and support at Columbia University, in order to facilitate a successful education and to provide a strong foundation for years to come. U.S. Military Veterans of Columbia University (MilVets) 2020-2021 Welcome Letter Email: [email protected] Additional Groups and Initiatives Other campus groups and initiatives include Women Veterans, MedVets (veteran postbacs and those interested in premed), Arts, Family Support, LGBTQA+, Community Service, Columbia University Family Support Network (CUFSN), etc. If you wish to connect with these groups, or start your own group, please email Dean David Keefe. Community-Building Events, Workshops, and Opportunities Throughout the year, GS provides and supports events, workshops, and opportunities for veterans and other communities to participate, connect, and find commonality through various programming, creative processes, and innovative engagement. These opportunities are announced in the monthly GS Veterans Newsletters. For more information, contact Dean David Keefe. Housing Resources GS students reside in many different housing situations. A number of students stay in University-owned housing, many live at home, and some secure other non-University housing in the New York area. Information about Columbia Housing and off-campus Housing: gs.columbia.edu/housing. Navigating NYC Housing for General Studies Student Veterans Packet Deciding where to live as a GS student is a very important decision, one to which serious consideration should be given. New York's many and diverse neighborhoods combined with an extensive public transportation system offer a variety of housing options that are convenient to the Columbia campus. GI Bill Landlord Letter Qualifying student veterans pursuing higher education in New York City may utilize G.I. Bill housing allowances to subsidize the cost of renting an apartment. The New York City Department of Veterans’ Services and the New York City Commission on Human Rights aim to provide landlords and student veterans with helpful information about legal protections under New York law for tenants seeking to finance their rent with G.I. Bill housing allowances. For questions, please email Dean David Keefe at [email protected] Career Resources Graduate School Coaching From the JD to the PhD, the MBA to the MS, the graduate school application process is both exciting and daunting. Graduate School Coaching is designed to help students develop the skills necessary to determine which programs meet their individual circumstances, needs, and goals, and to gain admission to the often highly-competitive world of graduate school. Columbia University Center for Career Education (CCE) CCE works to empower you to make smart career choices, develop the tools necessary for a successful internship/job search, and connect professionally with employers through workshops, career events, online resources, and meetings with counselors. The Columbia University Center for Veteran Transition and Integration (CVTI) CVTI is dedicated to creating free courses that will help to break down barriers to your successful transition between military service, student life and civilian workforce. These online courses are free and available for all. Career Coaching Opportunities Students have the potential to be connected with career coaches within their desired industry. For more information, email Dean David Keefe. ROTC Columbia participates in the Army, Air Force, and Naval ROTC programs. These programs include students from schools throughout the New York City area. The New York City Army ROTC program is based at Fordham University. The New York City Air Force ROTC program is based at Manhattan College. The New York City Naval ROTC program is based at SUNY Maritime College in the Bronx. For more information, please contact Dean David Keefe at [email protected]. Leaving for Duty Any student who is a member of the National Guard or other reserve component of the armed forces of the United States or of the state-organized militia and is called or ordered to active duty will be granted a military leave of absence for the period of active duty and for one year thereafter. Upon return from military leave of absence, the student will be restored to the educational status attained prior to being called or ordered to such duty without loss of academic credits earned, scholarships or grants awarded, or tuition or other fees paid prior to the commencement of active duty. The University will credit any tuition or fees paid for the period of the military leave of absence to the next enrollment period or will refund the tuition and fees paid to the student, at the student's option. Students in need of a military leave of absence should contact their advisor in the Dean of Students Office. Expand all Collapse all Veteran Health & Wellness Veterans and Families Health and Wellness Resource Packet for Students Columbia University offers a multitude of world-class health and wellness resources for veteran students and their families. Because there are many departments, referral processes and points of contacts, this packet is designed to help students navigate those resources. Veterans and Families Health and Wellness Resource Packet for Students Columbia Health Resources Columbia Health has several helpful videos explaining available resources, as well as insurance basics. GS Health and Wellness Resources GS also provides several helpful resources for current students. Veterans Concerns at Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS) CPS has 5 total counselors on staff with training from the VA and experience working with veterans. They also have 2 counselors on staff with experience in the Israeli Defense Force. These counselors encourage veterans to utilize their drop-in hours, and the veteran support group. Please see attached flyer, and visit their site for more information. Office of Disability Services (ODS) Part of the Dean Hope Center at Teacher’s College, The Resilience Center provides counseling and psychological assessments. For an assessment, please register and obtain a referral from DS first. The Resilience Center Part of the Dean Hope Center at Teacher’s College, The Resilience Center provides counseling and psychological assessments. For an assessment, please register and get a referral from ODS first. Expand all Collapse all Transitioning Out of Military Service Columbia University’s Center for Veteran Transition and Integration The Columbia University Center for Veteran Transition and Integration (CVTI) supports excellence and innovation in transition programming for current and former members of the armed forces. CVTI is dedicated to creating free courses that will help to break down barriers to your successful transition between military service, student life and civilian workforce. University Studies for Student Veterans This course helps veterans transition smoothly from military service to college, and helps them maximize their success once they arrive. U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Provides veterans the world-class benefits and services they have earned - and to do so by adhering to the highest standards of compassion, commitment, excellence, professionalism, integrity, accountability, and stewardship. New York State Division of Veterans Affairs New York State Division of Veterans Affairs Provides benefits counseling and advocacy for veterans. VITAL VITAL (Veterans Integration To Academic Leadership) is VA’s approach to reaching out to student Veterans to help facilitate the transition from service member to student. Additional Resources Veteran Claims Disabled American Veterans Veteran Affairs' Veteran Benefits Administration (VBA) Additional Resources Student Veterans of America FourBlock PsychArmor NYC Department of Veteran Services Warrior-Scholar Project Primary Contact Information David Keefe Senior Assistant Dean of Student Veteran Initiatives 403 Lewisohn Hall 212-854-2881 [email protected] GS Student Veteran Newsletter Request To be added to recipient list for the GS Student Veteran News & Announcements email, complete the GS Student Veteran Newsletter Request Form. Columbia University Emergency & 24/7 Support VA Veterans Crisis Line Call: 1-800-273-8255 then press 1 Chat: start a chat Text: any message to 838255 Additional VA Contact Information Primary Contact Information David Keefe Senior Assistant Dean of Veteran Initiatives 403 Lewisohn Hall 212-854-2881 [email protected] GS Student Veteran Newsletter Request To be added to recipient list for the GS Student Veteran News & Announcements email, complete the GS Student Veteran Newsletter Request Form. Columbia University Emergency & 24/7 Support VA Veterans Crisis Line Call: 1-800-273-8255 then press 1 Chat: start a chat Text: any message to 838255 Additional VA Contact Information Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close