Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation School of Industrial Design College of Design Main navigation About History Contact Us Support the School Employment Opportunities Equity in Design Launchpad Academics Bachelor of Science in Industrial Design Undergraduate Curriculum Minor Co-Op & Internships Master of Industrial Design (MID) Graduate Curriculum MS-HCI Financial Assistance & Aid Study Abroad Prospective Students Transfers Resources Student Life Studio Culture IDSA Research Interactive Product Design Lab REAR Lab Body Scan Lab GM HMI Lab People Alumni Spotlight News & Events Open Search Search Design Focused on Technology Design Focused on Technology Industrial design at Georgia Tech aims to fortify the designer’s role in humanizing connections between people and technology. Through purposeful integration of aesthetic, functional, utilitarian, economic, sustainable, social, and cognitive considerations, our curriculum prepares the new design generation with the tools to develop thoughtful solutions to the challenges of the 21st Century. As part of a top-ranked research institute, our programs offer an evidence-based approach to design and valuable experiential learning opportunities. Through eleven research labs, fabrication and prototyping shops, design studios, and multidisciplinary collaborations, students gain exposure to practical skills valuable to many industries. About the School Our Academics Course Instructor Opinion Survey Winner This School of Industrial Design instructor was voted best at Georgia Tech by our students. Kevin Shankwiler Winning class: ID 3042 Industrial Design Faculty Explain Holiday Product Design As much as consumers felt the effects of supply chain backlogs during this year’s holiday season, industrial designers and entire holiday merchandise teams are dealing with them, too. Three School of Industrial Design faculty join colleagues from the Scheller College of Business to explain how seasonal products are made and the results of a holiday product design cycle challenged by a pandemic and resulting complications. Read the full story Launchpad Student Showcase Launch into an expanse of talent to experience design excellence and ingenuity from Atlanta's newest creators. The Launchpad Student Showcase is the main vehicle for exhibiting the breadth of designs from our graduate and undergraduate industrial design students. Visit Student Work & Showcase Academic Programs & Student Engagement Student Life We are unique on Georgia Tech's campus and so are our students. They stand out in a crowd of engineers and make an impact! BSID Our programs emphasize evidence-based design and humanize innovative technologies to solve global problems. MID From Experience Designers and Interaction Designers to UX/UI Strategists, our graduates excel as leaders in design. Student Work Our students specialize in design research. It's the difference that lets them innovate across "new economy" industries. EunSook Kwon Appointed School of Industrial Design Chair The College of Design is proud to announce EunSook Kwon’s appointment as chair of the School of Industrial Design, effective August 1, 2021. “A number of universities have sought Dr. Kwon’s advice on new and existing industrial design programs,” French said. “She is recognized as an education leader with an impressive list of awards for teaching and curriculum development.” Read the Full Announcement Industrial Design Student Wins 2021 InVenture Prize Aya Ayoubi’s unique garment, the Delta Jacket, took home top honors at Georgia Tech’s 13th annual InVenture Prize competition, which pits student innovations head-to-head. Ayoubi is a fourth-year industrial design student. Not only did Ayoubi’s Delta Jacket win the $20,000 first place prize awarded by the judges, Ayoubi also took home the People’s Choice Award and an additional $5,000 after a public vote during Wednesday night’s airing on Georgia Public Broadcasting. Along with the cash prizes, the winner receives a free U.S. patent filing from Georgia Tech valued at $20,000. Read the full story Learn more about Delta Jacket Take a Virtual Tour Ready to experience what it's like to be an industrial design student at Georgia Tech? Whether you want the large-scale feel of a virtual campus visit or the close connection of a one-on-one meeting, we're committed to providing an experience that's customized just for you. Have a VR headset or Google Cardboard? You can use these devices to take the tour on your mobile device. Start Your Tour News and Events Designing for a Child's Curiosity ID students team up with the Children’s Museum of Atlanta to bring about ideas for six exhibits. Saving Hand Crafts Through Algorithms With a better tomorrow in mind, Lisa Marks’ design gives women an optimistic start in their new beginning. Exploring the 100-Year-Old Spirit of Bauhaus There are many beloved pumpkin applications, but how about a Bauhaus class project? Geeking Out About Fan Conventions Fan conventions are a thriving industry, full of eye-popping cosplay and celebrity encounters. Have a Question for Us? If you can't find the information you were looking for, we'll get you to the right place. Contact Us Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN User account menu Log in