Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager STIs Urinary Tract Infections What is a urinary tract infection? A urinary tract infection (UTI), also called cystitis, is an infection that occurs when bacteria enter the urinary tract and cause tissue damage in the urethra, bladder, and/or kidneys. UTIs are not necessarily sexually transmitted, but the chance of developing a UTI increases dramatically if you are sexually active because of the potential for transfer of bacteria during sex between the vagina, the rectum, and/or the urethra. Is it common? UTIs are so common that most people with vulvas and some people with penises acquire at least one UTI in their lives. In fact, an estimated 50% to 80% of people with vulvas develop UTIs sometime during their lifetime and from 20% to 50% of people with vulvas will have recurrent UTIs. Both people with vulvas and people with penises can develop a UTI; however, if you have a vulva you are more prone to develop the infection because of your anatomy. The distance between the bladder and the urethral opening is relatively short in people with vulvas, and this opening is in close proximity to both the vagina and rectum. This makes it easy for bacteria to move from one place to another. In people with penises, the urethral tube is longer and its opening is further removed from the rectum, thus resulting in a lower frequency of UTIs. What causes UTIs? UTIs are cause by bacteria such as E. coli that travel into the urethra, bladder, and sometimes the kidneys. Other STIs such as trichomoniasis and chlamydia can cause UTIs. Experiencing stress, having a weak immune system, eating a poor diet and damaging the urethra in childbirth or surgery can predispose you to getting UTIs. And UTIs often occur after having sex with a new partner (called "honeymoon cystitis") or after having sex with your partner for the first time in a while. What are the symptoms? If you have any of these symptoms, see your medical provider. UTI symptoms include: Pain and intense burning during urination Feeling like you need to urinate every few minutes Needing to urinate with very little fluid coming out Presence of blood in your urine Strong odor the first time you urinate in the morning In advanced infections, there may be fever, vomiting and pain in the mid- to lower back as the infection reaches the kidneys. This is serious and needs immediate medical attention. How is it diagnosed? A medical provider will perform a urinalysis to diagnose a UTI. How is it treated? Once a medical provider has confirmed that you have a UTI, they will prescribe a medication to relieve the symptoms and will prescribe an antibiotic to treat the infection itself. Although there are also some effective herbal cures, discuss these with your provider. Sometimes symptoms go away even though the infection may be spreading to the kidneys. Sharp pain in the lower back may be a sign of kidney infection. Is there a way to prevent UTIs? Prevention strategies are particularly important. Follow the suggestions below to minimize the risk of developing a UTI: Provide sufficient air circulation and help discourage UTIs by wearing looser pants and cotton underwear, and sleeping without underwear. Wearing tight pants or nylons can make it easier for an infection to develop. Get good nutrition: eat a variety of foods and keep caffeine and alcohol consumption low. In general, drinking lots of water helps. Drinking large quantities of unsweetened cranberry juice may make the bladder and urethra more acidic and therefore more hostile to infectious bacteria. Urinate frequently, emptying your bladder each time. If you menstruate, change your tampons and sanitary napkins frequently when you have your period. Wash your hands before and after sex, and after any contact with the anus. Make sure that there is no contact with the vagina (with hands, condoms, or sex toys) directly after contact with the anus. If you use a diaphragm for contraception, pressure of the rim against the urethra may cause UTIs; see your health care provider for help with this. Bacteria from the genital and rectal area can be introduced into the urinary tract during sexual activity. Urinate before and after sex to help clear the urethra of bacteria and relieve pressure on the bladder. Keep your genital area clean, and wash between any anal and vaginal contact. For people with vulvas, this includes wiping from front to back anytime you go to the bathroom. Is a UTI dangerous? Damage to the kidneys and the urinary tract, as well as serious, possibly life-threatening problems may occur if a UTI is left untreated, or if you experience chronic UTIs. So if pain and symptoms persist, make sure you see a medical provider. Related Links For more information about UTIs, you can visit: WebMD About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook