Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Tickets Box-office Info Forward Arrow Box-office Info Back Arrow Back Education Forward Arrow Education Tri-ART Back Arrow Back Host Your Event Forward Arrow Host Your Event Back Arrow Back Support Forward Arrow Support Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About People Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Tickets Box-office Info Education show submenu for Education Tri-ART Host Your Event Support About show submenu for About People Clemson Home Centers and Institutes Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Education Current: Tri-ART Bill and Donna Eskridge Tri-ART Series The Eskridge Tri-ART Series is the Brooks Center’s educational outreach program for area schools. Annually, the series presents interactive morning performances by world-renowned musicians, singers, theater companies and Clemson student ensembles. Students, ages 3-18, from public, private and homeschools in South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia experience both entertaining and inspiring presentations. The series is named for Tri-ART benefactors Bill and Donna Eskridge. Reservations We can't wait to welcome you to a Tri-ART performance! The Tri-ART season is announced in July and reservations become available the first week in August. Join our mailing list to receive updates about the series. The Brooks Center accepts reservations by MAIL OR EMAIL for all those attending Tri-ART by bus. All those attending Tri-ART by car will place reservations online. We cannot accept reservations via phone or in person. If you have questions concerning reservations or seating availability, please contact Tri-ART Coordinator Nancy Martin at nmartin@clemson.edu or by phone at 864-656-7787 for more information. Car Reservations Those attending Tri-ART by car will place reservations online. Reserve Tickets >> Bus Reservations Those attending Tri-ART by bus will complete a registration form and return via mail or email. Reserve Tickets >> Important Information Reservations The new Tri-ART season is posted online in July. The reservation form is available on August 1. Depending on the popularity of the requested show(s) you may or may not receive all shows requested. Car Parking There is no car parking in the Brooks Center lot or the lot by Strom Thurmond. You may park in the gravel lot (Lot 12) behind the Administrative Services Building (108 Perimeter Rd). A shuttle will run from the gravel lot to the Brooks Center entrance every 10-15 minutes starting one hour before the performance and following the performance. Once the performance starts a shuttle will remain at the Brooks Center in case you need to return to your vehicle. If you would like to sit together, please arrive together. The Brooks Center is not responsible for parking tickets. Directions to Lot 12 from the Brooks Center: Turn right onto Perimeter Road. Turn left onto Old Stadium Road, before the Administrative Services Building. Turn right onto Gamma Street. There is a gravel parking area. A shuttle will run every 10-15 minutes from this parking lot. Bus Parking Buses may drop off in front of the theatre. After drop off, proceed out of the Brooks Center parking lot and turn right onto Perimeter Road. Continue towards the stadium. There is a bus pull off area on the left side of the road. A chaperone, in addition to the driver, is required for each group. Buses will receive a bus number and matching lanyard for the teacher to be returned to the parking attendant after the performance. It is important to allow EXTRA TRAVEL TIME, especially for large groups, inclement weather and restroom breaks. Always confirm your transportation (number of buses, arrival times, etc.). Please wait until your bus number is called before leaving the theatre. Check-In Please give your school or last name to the Tri-ART representative as you enter the lobby. Failure to check in will constitute an absence. We will not accept reservations for the following season from schools/homeschools who failed to attend three or more reserved events without notification Late arrivals will be seated at appropriate intervals during performances. Performance Information Performances begin at 9:30 or 10 a.m. and run for approximately one hour, unless otherwise noted. The doors to the theatre open approximately 30 minutes before the performance. The confirmation form serves as your admission to Tri-ART events in lieu of tickets. No refunds or exchanges. If you are unable to use all or part of your reservation, please notify the box office by phone (864-656-7787) or email as soon as possible so that another child can see the performance. Inclement Weather Policy When Clemson University is closed, the Brooks Center cannot lawfully remain open to present performances. While some facilities around campus maintain "auxiliary" status and therefore may remain open, our facility does NOT have this status and MUST close. We are required to cancel scheduled performances if the university closes for any reason. Check the South Carolina Emergency Management Division's website regarding status of state offices. If Pickens county is closed, the Brooks Center is closed. Contact Us Nancy Martin Email nmartin@clemson.edu Phone 864-656-7787 Office 100 Brooks Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Copyright © Clemson University Brooks Center for the Performing Arts | 221 Brooks Center, Box 340525, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3048 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook YouTube Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson