Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search Hughes-Trigg Student Center 2.0 World changers shaped for a lifetime in the heart of the student community. “Our vision for Hughes-Trigg is an exciting go-to spot with a lot of student life. It should be a fun hub where people are studying, working on group projects or meeting friends.” — Kate Jensen ’19 Also in Hughes-Trigg Student Center Naming opportunities Exciting transformations Renovations Photos Video Take a virtual tour of the newly renovated SMU Hughes-Trigg Student Center! The excitement is building in the SMU Hughes-Trigg Student Center. Check out the new Varsity hangout and dining space at SMU! Give now In 2019, the 32-year-old building underwent renovations and has been refreshed and reimagined as a modern, inviting gathering space where students come together to socialize, study and participate in the full slate of campus opportunities that nurture a strong sense of community. The project is now complete, and Hughes-Trigg is once again the Hub on the Hilltop. Make a Gift Hughes-Trigg Student Center naming opportunities There are a handful of spaces still available to name within SMU’s Hughes-Trigg Student Center. Learn more about these unique naming opportunities by contacting Brandon Starr at 214-768-7726 or bstarr@smu.edu. Atrium and Commons Ballroom Varsity Lounge Student Commons Dean’s Suite Student Leadership Chamber Grand Staircase Large Suites (2) Click here to learn more about how you can support this renovation. Exciting transformations for Hughes-Trigg include: Design elements showcasing Mustang pride and spirit throughout the three-story building. Modernized conference rooms for student group projects featuring technology upgrades and self-service AV capabilities. Open floor plan and new grand staircase to create airy and expansive feel. Accessibility improvements, remodeled restrooms and a new east-side entrance for expanded traffic flow. Top-to-bottom renovation of the Varsity with elevated hangout spaces. New and improved quick-serve dining options. Hughes-Trigg needs to be modernized to align quality and function with the excellence that SMU strives for. A great student center fosters campus involvement, attracts prospective students and bonds the student body. — Nathan DeVera ’19 Photo gallery View more photos Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search