Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Need help making a gift? Call 866-419-6768 Iowa State Logo Give Now Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Search Content: Home Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Cardinal Sheet The Cardinal Sheet is the proposal routing form used by the Iowa State University Foundation to ensure compliances and secure departmental, college and university approvals to request gift/grant funding from a foundation, corporation, or other non-governmental source. The Cardinal Sheet also serves to ensure the proposed project’s adherence/fit to guidelines for the specific program and the funder. Video instructions on how to complete a Cardinal Sheet. Go to YouTube if you’d like to jump to certain sections. PDF instructions for Cardinal Sheet Cardinal Sheet FAQs The Cardinal Sheet Report access request form can be found here. When is a Cardinal Sheet needed? A Cardinal Sheet is required prior to submitting a proposal/making an ask to a foundation, corporation, or other nongovernmental source to request a gift or grant of $5,000 or more. A Cardinal Sheet is required for letters of intent (LOIs), preproposals, letters of inquiry as described below: Any preliminary proposal (letter of intent, preproposal, etc.) or application requiring line item or categorized budget requires a Cardinal Sheet. Any preliminary proposal (letter of intent, preproposal, etc.) or application requiring institutional approval (provost, vice president for research, president, dean) should be routed with a Cardinal Sheet. Applications requiring institutional approvals and signatures are coordinated by the ISU Foundation. Applications to some funders require collaboration with the assigned relationship manager (development officer) at the Iowa State University Foundation. Requests for funding of $50,000 or more will be coordinated by the ISU Foundation. Requests requiring institutional signatures (such as the president, provost or vice president for research) will be coordinated by the ISU Foundation. Limited submissions in which a limited number of applications may be submitted. Please allow five business days to review the Cardinal Sheet before the due date or the date when any signed paperwork is needed. PIs will be notified when the Cardinal Sheet has been approved. The final proposal and/or application materials must be provided to the ISU Foundation at the time of submission (PDF format preferred) to ensure the history with the funder is up to date. Materials are maintained in the donor’s electronic files. This includes copies of online forms required by a funder. Gifts and grants not requested through an application process and requested or received directly by a university unit require a Cardinal Sheet in order to process the gift and allow access to the funds. Please contact cfr@foundation.iastate.edu if you have any questions regarding whether the proposal or award requires a Cardinal Sheet. Home Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are Careers Iowa State Highlights Reasons to say "THANK YOU" $1,542,356,968 Since the start of the Forever True, For Iowa State campaign, donors like you helped us exceed our historic $1.5 billion goal! “Scholarship support enhances my time at Iowa State and allows me to see the world while also gaining an amazing education.” - Margaret Leligdon, Junior, Civil Engineering Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are 2505 University Boulevard, P.O. Box 2230, Ames, Iowa 50010-2230, 866.419.6768. Copyright ©2016, Iowa State University Foundation. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Back to Top