Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Become a Student How to Apply Financial Aid Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Funding Options How to Apply Checklist FAQ Tuition & Fees Funding Options How to Apply Checklist FAQ Tuition & Fees Financial Aid The Financial Aid Office is dedicated to identifying the best sources of financial support for Mailman School students. Financial aid packages can include a combination of institutional funds, loans, and student employment opportunities. Awards are based on the expected student contribution and the standard student budget, which is created each academic year to account for variable costs. Students should evaluate the standard budget when planning for the upcoming academic year. When calculating the student budget, special accommodations may be made for students with additional expenses like child care or a computer purchase. Students should set up a meeting with a cl2281 [at] cumc.columbia.edu (Financial Aid Officer) to discuss. Note: It is very uncommon for financial aid to make accommodations for anything other than rent expenses, a one-time purchase of a computer, or child care. For information on tuition and fees please visit our Tuition and Fees page to see current costs. To schedule an appointment with a Financial Aid Officer, please our plan a visit page. Develop a Budget There are five steps involved in developing your in-school budget: Identify your financial goals (i.e. what you need vs. what you want) Calculate your non-loan financial resources (i.e. grants, jobs) Estimate your education expenses (i.e. tuition/fees, books, supplies, etc.) Estimate your living expenses (renting vs. housing) Do the math. A deficit, if any, represents the amount you may need to borrow. For any related questions or information on waiving your health insurance fee, please contact Student Health Services at 212-305-3400 or visit the Student Handbook. Savings It is important that you build up some form of liquid savings that can be used prior to arriving on campus. This will help you cover initial costs such as the first month's rent, security deposits, moving expenses, etc., while waiting for your financial aid to deposit into your student account. All students who enroll in a degree program must arrive in New York City with at least one month of living expenses (preferably two), as the federal loan disbursement process does not take place until two weeks into the start of every semester. If you have any further questions or concerns please sphfinaid [at] cumc.columbia.edu (email us). More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Public Health Leaders Urge SCOTUS to Uphold Roe v. WadeMay 4 2022 Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the WestMay 4 2022 Period Poverty and the Pandemic: A Forgotten CrisisMay 4 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers