Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content Close × Close × About About Welcome SHRM Provider School Contact Us Programs Programs Online Professional Development Certificate Programs Graduate Programs Summer Sessions Search Courses Resources Resources Request Information Society for Human Resource Management Seton Hall University Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Faculty Office of the Provost Resources Resources Undergraduate Admissions Office of Graduate Affairs Academic Calendar Mission and Ministry Alumni and Friends Quick Links Quick Links Seton Hall Homepage Seton Hall News University Calendar SHU Athletics Support Seton Hall Events PirateNet Menu Seton Hall University Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Faculty Office of the Provost Resources Undergraduate Admissions Office of Graduate Affairs Academic Calendar Mission and Ministry Alumni and Friends Quick Links Seton Hall Homepage Seton Hall News University Calendar SHU Athletics Support Seton Hall Events PirateNet University Site Search Seton Hall University About Welcome SHRM Provider School Contact Us Programs Online Professional Development Certificate Programs Graduate Programs Summer Sessions Search Courses Resources Request Information Society for Human Resource Management Gain an edge this summer! Check out our wide variety of graduate and undergraduate summer courses, giving you an opportunity to gain an edge throughout the summer months. read more Continuing Education — with its diverse offerings of credit, non-credit, degree, professional certificate and training programs — helps job-seekers and lifelong learners discover what works to enhance their lives and achieve success. Our programs are taught by distinguished faculty and industry experts. Schedules are flexible and designed for people with busy lives. We offer corporate and small business training, as well as small group and independent learning opportunities. IN FOCUS Cybersecurity Programs and Resources Seton Hall is proud to offer a wealth of academic programs, events and resources to prepare students for a successful career in cybersecurity and to further strengthen this in-demand skillset among experienced professionals. Read More NEWS Benefits of Attending Summer Sessions at Seton Hall Both current and visiting students can take advantage of the many courses offered this summer, with multiple sessions running May 24 through August 26. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS IN FOCUS Request More Information Sign up to learn about the professional development programs offered by the Division of Continuing Education and Professional Studies. Read More NEWS iTHIRST Program Serves as Beacon of Hope With drug overdose rates on the rise, the iTHIRST Spiritual Companionship Certification Training Program offers a beacon of hope for those with substance use disorders and their loved ones. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS IN FOCUS Professional Market Research Insights Certificate CEPS is offering two self-paced online market research courses focusing on quantitative and qualitative insights. Learn more! Read More IN FOCUS Online Social Media Certificate Learn how to better integrate social media into your digital strategies through basic- and advanced-level cohorts. Read More Continuing Education and Professional Studies Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9087 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top