COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Entrepreneurship, Major MajorEntrepreneurship All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Management Wichita State's Barton School of Business is home of the state's only Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in entrepreneurship, which combines its AACSB-accredited program with the unmatched opportunities for applied learning and internships found in Kansas' largest city. You'll be eligible to compete for some of the state's largest business scholarships. And you can build a professional resume and make the connections that lead to your dream career. Learn how entrepreneurship is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the Barton School of Business, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Student group breaks down barriers, brings new ideas Inspired to encourage entrepreneurial and innovative ideas among their peers, three students created Shocker Startup, an on-campus organization that prepares students to start their own businesses. Learn more about Shocker Startup Curriculum You'll study the skills needed for entrepreneurial success—from new venture feasibility analysis to urban land development—in addition to core business courses. The BBA in entrepreneurship degree also offers a real-estate emphasis (the only one found at a Kansas regents' university) for students interested in pursuing a career in property development or managing their own real estate company. View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU's extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs General Business Business - General (Minor) Entrepreneurship (Minor) Management Management (Minor) Operations Management (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©