Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Appa Home Service Immersion Appa Appa Volunteers — more commonly called “Appa” — is a service-immersion program committed to working with under-resourced populations in the United States via shared service and direct encounter. The heart of our work is spent in community, when we travel to 30 different cities and towns during spring break, living in solidarity alongside the families that we commit to serve. What We Do Learn, through discussion and reflection, about the societal realities in the United States that leave some marginalized. Consider how our faith asks us to respond to the social injustices that create entrenched poverty. Foster a commitment to service throughout the year. Embrace the Gospel’s call to “love one another.” Overview Join Lead Donate Contact Appa Volunteers is an alternative spring break service-immersion program committed to working alongside underserved populations in the United States. More than 400 students travel coast-to-coast with us each year, encountering community and service in both urban areas (New Orleans, Detroit, etc.) and rural areas (throughout the South and the Appalachian regions) We meet biweekly throughout the school year to learn about the structural and social realities that leave some people marginalized, and we draw on Boston College’s Jesuit tradition in considering how faith might ask us to respond to social injustices. History Boston College was one of the first universities to sponsor an alternative spring break trip when Gregg Cassin, BC ’80, and 19 classmates traveled to Vanceburg, Kentucky in February 1979 for an eight-day trip centered on the tenets of service and solidarity. “We’re out to raise the awareness of BC students in terms of the people of Appalachia,” Cassin told The Heights at the time. “People can’t conceive of third world conditions existing in our own country.” The BC students lived simply that week, working to repair homes and farms while building relationships with the community and growing personally in emotional and spiritual ways. Their time together, Cassin told The Heights, brought to life “what Christ meant when he said, ‘Whatever you do to the last of mine, let you do unto me.'” The Appa Volunteers program has grown substantially since then. The group nearly doubled in size in its second year, with 34 students traveling to Kentucky and Ohio in 1980 to experience poverty in the United States. Some 20 years later, in 2000, 460 students raised almost $150,000 to support a program that had grown to spread from the borders of Maine to North Carolina. Today, Boston College’s Appa program celebrates more than 35 years of service and solidarity with and for the poor of the United States. Students annually raise more than $300,000 necessary to travel around the country, building homes, building community, and learning how to live just lives. Read an article from The Heights in 1979 to learn more about the beginnings of Appa Volunteers. Learning Outcomes Appa Volunteers introduces students to the Catholic Jesuit mission of the University, encourages students to integrate moral and ethical principles with their experience of service and immersion, and helps them decide how to use their gifts in service to others. After participating in the Appa Volunteers Program, students will be able to: 1. Identify and analyze the structural roots of poverty in the United States. 2. Articulate one aspect of Boston College’s Jesuit charism and apply it to daily life 3. Formulate a plan to continue participating in acts of service and solidarity beyond involvement in Appa Joining Appa is as easy as showing up. We have no application process; any student who wants to participate can. We simply ask that you complete our registration form and commit to the following requirements: Register for Appa *Please note: Registration for Appa 2022 - 2023 will be avaiable in June 2022 Terms & Conditions: All students participating in Appa must submit basic registration information and the program’s terms and conditions form online. Participation and Attendance General Formation Meetings: We meet on Sunday’s from 3:30 - 5:00 p.m. in Eagles' Nest (2nd floor of McElroy). See the timeline below for dates for all our meetings. Meeting Attendance: Attendance at meetings is mandatory. Members who cannot make a meeting should e-mail appalachia@bc.edu ahead of time to alert them of their absence. Continued unexcused absences may result in dismissal from the program. Finances and Fundraising Program Fee: There is a $100 program fee for Appa 2022-2023. Raffle: Students are responsible for selling and submitting $200 worth of raffle tickets by January 29, 2023. Raffle information will be shared at our general meeting on Sunday, December 4, 2022. You can submit raffle payment via cash, check (payable to Boston College), or credit card. To pay via credit card: Visit bc.edu/ummstpm Log in with BC username and password via Sign in to My Account button in the upper right hand corner Under the list of UMM Programs You Have Been Accepted Into, click the red Make Payment button on the Appa Volunteers line Enter the amount you would like to pay in the respective Payment Amount field and click Make Payment You will be redirected to the secure CashNet page where you can submit your payment information. You will receive an email confirming your successful payment. Timeline 2022-2023 Purpose Dates Location First General Meeting October 2, 2022 Devlin 008 - Auditorium General Formation Meeting October 16, 2022 Eagles Nest - McElroy General Fomration Meeting October 30, 2022 Eagles Nest - McElroy General Formation Meeting November 13, 2022 Eagles Nest - McElroy General Formation Meeting December 4, 2022 Eagles Nest - McElroy Appa Spring Orientation TBD TBD General Meeting - Raffle Due January 29, 2023 Eagles Nest - McElroy Genral Formation Meeting *Meeting time rescheduled from 2-3:30 p.m. due to SuperBowl Sunday February 26, 2023 Eagles Nest - McElroy Final Pre-Trip General Meeting February 26, 2023 Eagles Nest - McElroy Appa Sending Forth Liturgy March 3, 2023 St. Ignatius Chapel Appa Trips! March 5 - 10, 2023 Unpacking Appa March 26, 2023 Appa Volunteers is animated by the work of 50 student leaders in all facets of the program. The following leadership positions are available: Appa Leaders are extensively trained on servant leadership and service immersion practices. 2 Appa Leaders are assigned to each site, and commit to facilitate respectful, safe, and meaningful experiences for participants and community partners. Click here to apply. Appa Council Members are 12 SLs that serve as the program’s executive leadership on our Appa Council. They work in one of three committees: Fundraising, Formation, or Transportation. Click here to apply. Appa Head Coordinators are three students who serve as “leaders of leaders” in Appa’s community of Student Leaders and participants. They work closely with the Appa Campus Minister and Graduate Assistants and dedicate their time overseeing all Appa Council committees and much of the behind-the-scenes work that goes into Appa. Applications for leadership positions in the 2023 - 2024 academic year will be avaiable in March 2023. Thank you for considering a donation to the Appa Volunteers. Your tax-deductible donation is a valuable investment in a learning experience that many Boston College students will carry with them for the rest of their lives. Donate Online Visit the Online Giving Form Enter your information; for the field "I wish to make my gift to:” select Appa Volunteers. If you are sponsoring a certain student, please select "In honor of a BC student," and include their name and year. Click "Submit Gift" Mail a Check Appa Volunteers Program Boston College, Office of Campus Ministry McElroy Commons 233 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 If your corporation matches donations, please enclose the appropriate forms. Appa Volunteers, under the umbrella of the Trustees of Boston College, is a non-profit 501(c)3 with a federal tax exemption number of 04-2103545. Email appalachia@bc.edu Appa Office Hours Monday - Friday: 10:00a.m. - 4:00p.m. Carney 371 Mailing Address Boston College Campus Ministry: Appa Volunteers / McElroy 233 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Campus Minister Jake Blicharz jacob.blicharz@bc.edu 617-552-3230 Graduate Assistants Kellie Waters waterske@bc.edu Follow #BCAppa on Instagram Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry McElroy 233 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3475 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College