Skip to site alert. Skip to content CUIMC Office of Government and Community Affairs COVID-19 Community Resources News Events Contact Us Search About Us Government Affairs Community Affairs Community Service Programs How to Give Back Bridge to the Community & Advocate to Support the Medical Center’s Mission to Educate, Care, Lead Government We advocate on behalf of CUIMC faculty, staff, and leadership, and keep all updated on developments in Washington, Albany, and at City Hall. Learn About the Issues Learn About the Issues Community Our office engages local residents and organizations by coordinating services, programs, and events that support the needs of the Washington Heights and Inwood community. Explore Our Programs Explore Our Programs Giving Back The Medical Center Neighborhood Fund awards critical grants to community organizations each year. Donate to the Fund Donate to the Fund News Better screening of gun owners could save lives lost to suicide, study shows Source: Today May 17, 2022 Guns are the leading method of suicide in the U.S., but gun owners with a history of suicidal thoughts and behaviors are less likely to report it. Columbia University Lab Is One of Many Across the U.S. Testing Wastewater for Signs of Covid Source: CBS News Los Angeles May 23, 2022 Please watch from 12:13 Energy is getting more expensive. More middle-income families are struggling to pay. Source: Marketplace May 16, 2022 Energy costs should take up about 6% of household income, energy experts say. But many low- and middle-income families are spending multiple times that. View All News Events 5th Annual Inwood Film Festival Thursday, June 2, 2022 to Sunday, June 5, 2022 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM Venue Baker Athletics Complex, 533 W. 218 St., New York, NY 10034 Adapting Digital Interventions for Diverse Populations Friday, June 3, 2022 12:00 PM to 1:00 PM Venue Online Event Hike the Heights Saturday, June 4, 2022 10:00 AM to 3:00 PM Venue Off-campus View All Events CUIMC Holiday Toy Drive Participate in the CUIMC Holiday Toy Drive to provide toys and gifts to local schools, day cares, head starts and community groups. CUIMC Holiday Toy Drive Medical Center Neighborhood Fund By supporting the Neighborhood Fund we can help distribute critical grants to local nonprofit organizations in our neighborhood. Medical Center Neighborhood Fund Columbia University Irving Medical Center About Us Government Affairs Community Affairs Medical Center Neighborhood Fund Volunteer Opportunities CUIMC Office of Government & Community Affairs 51 Audubon Avenue Suite 800 New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top