Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Doctoral Programs Welcome Programs Students FAQs FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Program Offerings How To Apply Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home FCBE PhD Students How to Apply to FCBE Doctoral Programs How To Apply The deadline to apply is March 1 or until class is filled. Early applications are strongly encouraged. To be considered for the PhD program, applicants must first meet the University's minimum admission standards. This means an acceptable GMAT or GRE score and a graduate GPA of at least 3.2 on a 4.0 scale. Persons meeting the requirements for admission to the Graduate School are eligible to apply for admission to the PhD program in Business Administration. Admission to the Fogelman College's PhD program is based on: a thorough review of the qualifications of the applicant, space availability in the program, and fit between the Department program objectives and the applicant's objectives. The Academic Program Admissions Committee makes PhD admission decision recommendations in conjunction with the Associate Dean for Academic Programs to the Vice Provost for Graduate Studies. The applicant's entire academic record is reviewed, including GMAT or GRE score, undergraduate and graduate grades, and three letters of recommendation. Also, a resume and a statement of personal career objectives must be submitted, and a personal interview is normally required. An initial review is based upon an examination of exam score and grade point average of previous work. The higher your exam score, the higher your chances of being accepted and being considered for a departmental scholarship. The average exam score for admitted applicants has been above 600 GMAT for the past three years. The final admission decision recommendation is based on the above criteria and graduate faculty evaluation of the applicant's potential for success in a doctoral program in business administration. For students without a master's degree, equivalent scores based on undergraduate GPA are required, and students may be admitted initially to the graduate master's program. How To Apply Step 1: Complete online Graduate Application to the Graduate School and submit fee. Use the electronic admission applications to apply to Graduate School. Admission Applications will not be processed without application fee. If you completed an application prior to March 7, 2019, please contact Graduate Programs Office for information on how to submit supporting documents. If you completed an application on or after March 7, 2019, all required documents can be uploaded directly into your application. Required Departmental Application and Supporting Materials Resume Statement of Purpose Letters of Recommendation from three (3) individuals Department Financial Assistance Application Required Official Documents Official Transcripts Official Test Scores (GMAT or GRE) Additional requirements for international applicants: Official Test Scores (TOEFL) Affidavit of Financial Support Evaluation of Credentials Evaluation of Credentials: Applicants whose highest degree is from a foreign university must have their credentials evaluated. The University will accept evaluation done by any credentialing agency listed on the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services' website (www.naces.org). The course-to-course report is required. Financial Assistance Graduate Assistantship Application Graduate assistantships are awarded to incoming students beginning the fall semester with GMAT on a competitive basis. Since there are a limited number of graduate assistantships available, Departments encourage students to apply in late February and early March. To apply for departmental financial assistance, complete the assistantship application form and submit with admission application. All materials can be submitted during the application process. Application Deadlines For more information please see the current Graduate Bulletin or contact the PhD Program Coordinator for your area of concentration. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/4/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.