Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Facilities & Rentals » Birthday Parties Set Navigation title in component Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Birthday Parties We are not currently offering Birthday Parties at this time. Please check back for more information. Policies Climbing Wall/Gymnasium Party Rules and Regulations right arrow down arrow One adult may be responsible for no more than five children five years of age and younger. All participants must wear non-marking shoes (gym shoes). Children must be at least 5 years old and able to fit in available equipment to use the climbing or bouldering walls. All participants 17 years old and younger are required to wear a helmet at all times in the Climbing Wall. Party Room Rules and Regulations right arrow down arrow Parties may have food and drinks; however everything must stay in the Party Room. Parties with 25 or fewer children may bring food and drinks. Parties with 26 children or more must use Classic Fare Catering for their food and beverage needs. Parties are responsible for cleaning up after themselves when finished. A cleaning fee of $25 will be added to total cost if areas are left unusable once party is finished. Balloons are not permitted in the facility. Since the wet classroom is in the pool area, the temperature is the same as that of the pool deck.  It will be warm if you’re in jeans/long sleeves or if you have not been in the pool. Please know this space is meant for an indoor aquatic area and is designed to be utilized by people that have been in and out of the pool.  Adults who are not swimming tend to find it hot and humid (around 87-90 degrees with high humidity). A fee of 150% of the party’s hourly cost will be charged in the case the party stays beyond the scheduled reserved time. Leisure Pool Party Rules and Regulations right arrow down arrow Due to the unique set-up of our facility, no leisure pool reservation is private. Children five years of age and younger must be accompanied in the water by an adult (and the adult must actively participate in activities with the child). Lifeguards will remind adults of this policy, if needed, and may require an adult to be in the water with older children who are deemed weak swimmers. One adult may be responsible for no more than three children five years of age and younger. Children using arm floats, inflatable rings or toys, or life jackets must be no more than an arm’s length from an adult in the water at all times. Comprehensive Rules & Regulations for Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Review the comprehensive list of Campus Recreation rules and regulations. Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top