Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Environment and Energy Protecting the environment requires leveraging tools that exist in nearly every area of the from property rights to human rights to contracts to constitutional law, international law, administrative law, and corporate governance. Environmental and energy law is an interdisciplinary field at the nexus of science, business, public policy, human rights, and international relations. Many areas of the law—including corporate, property, real estate, intellectual property, tax, criminal, and contracts—play a role in how governments, corporations, and nongovernmental organizations address threats to the planet and humanity. How can lawyers aid the fight against climate change and shape the local, national, and global response to environmental threats? Students engage with leading scholars and practitioners who have spent decades working in environmental litigation and advocacy. Columbia University is devoted to finding new ways to respond to environmental threats across disciplines including through groundbreaking centers, clinics, and institutes, such as the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law, the Columbia Center on Sustainable Investment, and the Earth Institute, home of the Climate School. Why Columbia Law? Research and write amicus briefs for court cases related to climate change. Benefit from the Law School’s Sabin Center for Climate Change Law, which develops legal techniques to combat climate change, trains students and lawyers in their use, and provides up-to-date resources on key topics in climate change law and regulation. Provide pro bono representation to community groups and residents who support renewable energy developments, such as wind turbines and solar arrays, but face local opposition. Investigate mitigation solutions to protect vulnerable populations from humanitarian crises brought on by rising sea levels, heatwaves, floods, droughts, and other disasters that threaten basic needs like food and water. Collaborate on projects with Columbia University’s renowned Earth Institute, home of the new Climate School, where more than 850 scientists, postdoctoral fellows, staff, and students work across disciplines to find solutions for problems in public health, poverty, energy, ecosystems, climate, natural hazards, and urbanization. Gain hands-on training in the Environmental Law Clinic by representing organizations on a broad array of issues including clean air and water, wetlands preservation, endangered species, and environmental justice. Delve into the economic and geopolitical issues of the global energy industry by taking classes cross-listed with Columbia’s School for International and Public Affairs. Engage in programs offered by Columbia Center on Sustainable Investment, a partnership between the Law School and Earth Institute. Making History: Columbia Law School introduced a seminar on environmental law and legislation in the late 1960s taught by Professor Frank P. Grad ’49 LL.B., who wrote the first environmental law book produced at a major law school. Related Links Explore Courses The School for International and Public Affairs Related Faculty All Faculty Michael Gerrard Andrew Sabin Professor of Professional Practice Edward Lloyd Evan M. Frankel Clinical Professor Emeritus in Environmental Law Thomas W. Merrill Charles Evans Hughes Professor of Law Jedediah S. Purdy William S. Beinecke Professor of Law All Faculty Listing Related Centers and Programs All Centers and Programs Columbia Center on Sustainable Investment The Columbia Center on Sustainable Investment (CCSI)—a joint venture from Columbia Law School and the Earth Institute at Columbia University—is the only university-based applied research center and forum dedicated to the study, practice, and discussion of sustainable international investment. CCSI conducts rigorous research; provides policy analysis and advisory services; offers educational programs; develops tools and resources; and furthers knowledge sharing among policymakers, development advocates, scholars, business leaders, and community stakeholders. Areas of Study Environment and Energy International and Comparative Law The Earth Institute at Columbia University Widely recognized as the world’s foremost organization addressing the challenges of global sustainable development, The Earth Institute comprises 850 scientists, postdoctoral fellows, staff, and students who work across many disciplines to find solutions for problems in public health, poverty, energy, ecosystems, climate, natural hazards, and urbanization. Areas of Study Environment and Energy Sabin Center for Climate Change Law The Sabin Center for Climate Change Law develops legal techniques to fight climate change, trains students and lawyers in their use, and provides the public with up-to-date resources on key topics in climate law and regulation. The center works closely with scientists at Columbia University’s Earth Institute as well as governmental, nongovernmental, and academic organizations around the world. Areas of Study Environment and Energy All Centers and Programs Related Experiential Learning Opportunities All Experiential Learning Clinic Environmental Law Clinic Areas of Study Environment and Energy Litigation and Dispute Resolution Externship Constitutional and Affirmative Litigation Externships Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy All Experiential Learning at Columbia Law Public Interest/Public Service No matter what your area of interest, find ways to incorporate public interest and public service into your academic program and career. Academics Careers Related Student Groups and Journals Columbia Journal of Environmental Law Environmental Law Society Related News Read All Stories More in The Press Research and Scholarship News Defending the Planet: A Columbia Law Podcast Can lawyers save the planet? Professor Michael B. Gerrard and leading experts go beyond the headlines and political ping-ponging to discuss combating the climate crisis using one of the most important and effective tools at our disposal: the law. Faculty News Full-Time Faculty Members Join Columbia Law School In The Press Supreme Court Considers Federal Reach in Curbing Power Emissions in Case With Major Implications for Biden’s Climate Agenda Michael Burger | MarketWatch In The Press ESG and Alpha: Sales or Substance? Lisa E. Sachs | Institutional Investor Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.