Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Research Menu About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact Baylor>Research>About>News News May 16 2022 Carter Appointed Dean of Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences Baylor University Provost Nancy Brickhouse, Ph.D., announces that Jason R. Carter, Ph.D., vice president for research, economic development and graduate education at Montana State University, has been selected as the Dean of Baylor’s Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences. May 11 2022 Inside Baylor's Mass Spectrometry Center Housed in the Baylor Sciences Building, the Mass Spectrometry Center brings state-of-art equipment and resources to Baylor faculty and students, advancing research in numerous departments. Apr 26 2022 The Power of Power Distance Belief Success in the education industry partly hinges on successful marketing, and the global reach of the internet presents vast opportunities. Baylor researchers analyze strategic approaches to reaching different cultures. Apr 11 2022 Baylor Researchers Contribute on the Most Precise Ever W Boson - Particle Physics Measurement Baylor’s Experimental High Energy Physics group among scientists with significant contributions to the successful maintenance and operation of the experiment measuring one of nature’s force-carrying particles Apr 6 2022 The Meaning of R1 Baylor's R1 status is far more than an elite club or glossy résumé item. It positions Baylor to have a significant impact around the world. Baylor faculty explain what that means to them in Baylor Magazine. Mar 30 2022 The Community Impact of R1 Nationally-recognized researcher Sara Dolan is an APA "Citizen Psychologist" who has seen firsthand the how research and scholarship can support community wellbeing. She says Baylor's R1 attainment will open new doors to serve the community. Mar 2 2022 National Study Examines Link Between Accountability to God, Psychological Well-being Religious believers who embrace accountability to God (or another transcendent guide for life) experience higher levels of psychological well-being, study led by Baylor researcher Matt Bradshaw. Feb 24 2022 Student-Engaged Partnership Accelerates Undergraduate Microbiome and Cancer Research Baylor students participate in top-tier research on state-of-the-art equipment, like an anaerobic chamber in Dr. Leigh Greathouse's lab. Learn how a unique partnership, focused on student research opportunities, brought this resource to Baylor. Feb 23 2022 Baylor Materials Testing and Characterization Laboratory Earns ISO Accreditation The Baylor Materials Testing and Characterization Core (MTACC) has earned ISO-17025 certification, a key validation for MTACC's services in imaging, materials characterization, fabrication and processing and more. Feb 17 2022 WATCH: Baylor's Journey to R1 Baylor's pursuit of R1 recognition became official in 2019, but the roots of the the University's elite R1 attainment date back more than 20 years. See how visionary moves and a purposeful path guided Baylor to preeminence as a Christian research university. Feb 8 2022 Baylor Researchers Receive $2.7 Million John Templeton Foundation Grant to Study Higher Education Virtue Formation Grant will fund longitudinal study of students at centers and institutes for Christian study, secular universities, and religiously affiliated universities. Jan 31 2022 University-Wide Alignment Key in Baylor’s R1 Recognition Vice Provost for Research Kevin Chambliss explains how alignment from Baylor administration, faculty and staff advanced Baylor's R1 aspirations and rapid attainment. Jan 25 2022 A Preeminent Christian Research University Daniel Romo, The Schotts Professor of Chemistry and Co-Director of the Baylor Synthesis and Drug-Lead Discovery Laboratory at Baylor, discusses the pursuit of research excellence and discovery at a faith-based R1 university. Jan 25 2022 Baylor’s R1 Attainment an Elite Elevation in Higher Education When Baylor earned R1 recognition at the end of 2021, the University joined an elite group of research institutions. Erica Bruce, associate professor of environmental science, explains the meaning of R1 in higher education and beyond. Jan 23 2022 NSF-funded Study Finds Dust Systems in Texas and New Mexico Impact Cardio-Pulmonary Health Baylor University paleoclimatologist Steven Forman analyzed gypsum- and quartz-dominated dune systems for possible fine, breathable dust fluxes detrimental to human health. Jan 20 2022 Prestigious NEH Grant Funds Baylor Professor's Scotus Translation Dr. Thomas M. Ward, associate professor of philosophy, has received a NEH research fellowship to prepare a scholarly translation of "De Primo Principio", a work by John Dun Scotus. Jan 19 2022 Baylor Professors to Assess Religion and Spirituality Competencies in Mental Health Graduate Education Holly Oxhandler and Clay Polson serve as co-investigators of Spiritual and Religious Competencies Project and will examine graduate education training in religious and spiritual competencies through $843,000 John Templeton Foundation Grant. Jan 14 2022 From Vision to Reality: Baylor Achieves R1 Recognition From the moment Baylor officially announced its pursuit of R1 recognition in 2019, the University has been on a purposeful path that reached an elite benchmark faster than anyone anticipated. Jan 1 2022 LISTEN: President Livingstone on Baylor's R1 Recognition Baylor University is now an R1 research institution. The end of 2021 brought this exciting news, as this long-pursued goal became a reality. In this Baylor Connections, President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., discusses these major benchmarks and their impact going forward. Dec 19 2021 Baylor Among Elite Group of Private R1 Institutions Baylor's ascension to R1 research recognition places the University among an elite group of just 37 private institutions recognized for "very high research activity" Dec 16 2021 Baylor University Earns Prestigious Research 1 Status Baylor University has been named a Research 1 university by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education, joining the nation’s top-tier research institutions as a doctoral university with very high research activity and elevating Baylor as a preeminent Christian research university. Dec 15 2021 Baylor Receives $1 Million Lilly Endowment Grant to Launch ‘Future Church Project’ Baylor University has received a $1 million grant from Lilly Endowment to help George W. Truett Theological Seminary launch multifaceted project designed to research and respond to the expressed needs and challenges of the church. Dec 14 2021 Freeze Frame Baylor engineering professor Stephen McClain studies the impact of frost on flight safety amongst research focused on basic fluid mechanics and heat transfer. Dec 10 2021 Preemptive Strike: Protecting Service Members from Inner-ear Injury Dwayne Simmons' auditory research benefits soldiers exposed to blasts or loud noises. Dec 9 2021 Baylor Announces First Faculty Endowment for Nursing School Beth Hultquist will be the inaugural holder of The Harris and Anne Clark FastBacc Endowed Professorship, established through a $1.5 million gift in Baylor's Louise Herrington School of Nursing. Are you looking for more News? Archives About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Download White Eye Detector (App Store) Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact