Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Us Advising Prospective Students People Contact Us General Engineering Exploration Every student who plans to major in engineering starts with admittance to General Engineering. You’ll spend your first year taking courses designed to bridge the gap between high school and college-level learning while examining the 10 undergraduate engineering disciplines offered at Clemson. From there, you’ll determine which specialty best fits your talents and interests. Our faculty and staff are dedicated to making your transition to Clemson a success. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact the General Engineering Department. High-achieving new freshmen have the option to take introductory engineering courses during the summer before the traditional Fall start. Optional Summer Classes GE Advantages By entering the General Engineering program prior to selecting a concentration, you get dedicated advisors at a centralized advising center, the ability to work closely with faculty inside and out of the classroom, and class sizes are kept at a smaller size to facilitate a more personable learning environment. Read the CECAS Viewbook to discover more about the college. Discover More About General Engineering Advising Faculty Giving Creative Inquiry Faculty Appointment Lecturer The General Engineering Department at Clemson University invites applications for the position of Lecturer to being in the Fall of 2022. Candidates should have a passion for teaching fundamental mathematical and physical concepts to first year engineering students. The General Engineering Program is a common first-year program and serves as the gateway to the engineering majors. The Program seeks to attract an active, culturally and academically diverse faculty of the highest caliber; skilled in the scholarship of teaching, discovery, application, and integration of knowledge. Additionally, Lecturers are expected to work in close collaboration with other faculty members in the Program to ensure consistent coordinated instruction, grading, and assessment of learning outcomes. Classes in General Engineering are taught in the SCALE-UP active learning environment. As such, the successful candidate must have the communication skills and energy to motivate students in large classes in a dynamic and interactive environment. Qualifications Candidates must have at least a Master's Degree in an ABET accredited engineering discipline. A PhD in an engineering discipline in strongly preferred. Experience using MATLAB or a similar programming language is required. Experience with SolidWorks or AutoCAD is desired. The successful candidate will demonstrate a dedication to inclusive excellence in higher education and a commitment to teaching and mentoring beginning engineering students. Application Instructions To apply, send a cover letter, full resume, and a teaching philosophy statement to the position application in Interfolio. Applications received on or before February 1, 2022 will receive full consideration; however, the positions will remain open until filled. Upcoming Events AUG 22 General Faculty Meeting 10:30 am to 12:00 pm Memorial Stadium (Death Valley) Copyright © Clemson University General Engineering | 106 Holtzendorff Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 (864) 656-2542 | Email Us