Event Information MEADOWS AT THE MEYERSON 2022 Tuesday, March 22, 2022 Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center 2301 Flora Street Dallas, Texas Join us for the 29th annual concert for SMU Meadows School of the Arts featuring the Meadows Symphony Orchestra led by conductor Paul Phillips. Proceeds from the event will benefit the Meadows Impact Scholarship Fund to support promising undergraduate and graduate students across all divisions from all backgrounds to foster a more vibrant and inclusive creative community. SMU is committed to safety. Event date and details are subject to change in accordance with best practices and guidelines issued by governmental officials in response to COVID-19. Support Meadows Scholarships Please select your level of support: $30,000 Meadows Impact Scholarship - details × $30,000 Meadows Impact Scholarship Your gift supports one student for four years. Sponsorship may be paid in installments of $7,500 per year for four years. Annual concert benefits for four guests for four years, including: Invitation to pre-concert reception and dinner for four guests Premium concert seats for four guests Recognition in concert program and on concert signage Complimentary valet $15,000 Maestro Level - details × $15,000 Maestro Level Annual concert benefits for four guests, including: Invitation to pre-concert reception and dinner Premium concert seats Recognition in concert program and on concert signage Complimentary valet $10,000 Soloist Level - details × $10,000 Soloist Level Annual concert benefits for four guests, including: Invitation to pre-concert reception and dinner Premium concert seats Recognition in concert program and on concert signage Complimentary valet $5,000 Conductor Level - details × $5,000 Conductor Level Annual concert benefits for two guests, including: Invitation to pre-concert reception and dinner Premium concert seats Recognition in concert program and on concert signage Complimentary valet $2,500 Principal Level - details × $2,500 Principal Level Annual concert benefits for two guests, including: Invitation to pre-concert reception and dinner Premium concert seats Recognition in concert program and on concert signage Complimentary valet $1,000 $500 details × $1,000 Ruby (Rubi) Seating for one (1) at Masterpiece Gala Invitation to pre-concert donor dinner Premium concert seats for four guests Recognition in concert program and on concert signage Complimentary valet Other Clicking the "Next" button will transfer you to SMU’s giving page to complete your transaction. For tax deduction or additional information, please contact the Meadows Giving Office at meadowsgiving@smu.edu or 214.768.4189. Individual Tickets Individual concert tickets are available for purchase by calling the Meadows Ticket Office at 214.768.2787. Purchase ticket to attend the concert Register to view the live streamed performance Beneficiary - Meadows Impact Scholarship Fund Scholarships have a far-reaching impact that goes beyond tuition assistance. Scholarships change lives through the opportunities they provide and helps create a robust community of artists, scholars and innovators. Now more than ever, scholarships are vital in Meadows ongoing efforts to attract and retain the highest caliber of students and to provide them with an outstanding education. Scholarship offers often factor significantly in a student's college decision, and upon arrival, these talented, diverse and bright students elevate the level of academic and artistic discourse throughout the campus. All proceeds from Meadows at the Meyerson 2022 will provide scholarship funds to support promising undergraduate and graduate students across all divisions from all backgrounds to foster a more vibrant and inclusive creative community. Thank you for investing in the future of remarkable and deserving students. Honoree Martha Raley Peak ’50 1927 – 2015 A lifelong musician, arts leader and patron, Martha Raley Peak was born and raised in Dallas. As a small child, she began playing the piano and, by age 12, had taken up the violin. By the time she was enrolled at Highland Park High School, she was giving piano lessons. Mrs. Peak attended Sullins Junior College and SMU, where she earned a Bachelor of Music with majors in violin and piano and was inducted into the Pi Kappa Lambda honor society. Mrs. Peak was a dedicated philanthropist and arts advocate who went to great lengths to champion the careers of young musicians. She was a member of the Highland Park Presbyterian Church Chancel Choir for nearly seven decades and performed with the Dallas Civic Chorus from 1962 to 1973. She also served as a member of the Dallas Woman’s Club, the Dallas Country Club, the Dallas Petroleum Club, the Dallas Opera Board of Directors, the Dallas Symphony Association Advisory Governors, the Dallas Chamber Music Board of Governors and the Meadows School of the Arts Executive Board. As a faithful supporter of SMU’s performing arts programs, Mrs. Peak regularly attended symphony, chamber music, dance and choral performances. She and her late husband, Preston, contributed to scholarships for Meadows School of the Arts students as well as to the Meadows Symphony Orchestra. In 2013, the Peak family established the Martha Raley Peak Endowed Centennial Chair and Director of the Meadows Symphony Orchestra, currently held by Maestro Paul Phillips, who will conduct his 25th Meadows at the Meyerson concert tonight. Together with her family, Mrs. Peak also founded the Peak Fellowship Ensemble-in-Residence, a multi-year fellowship at SMU Meadows that is made available to chamber music groups internationally. Launched in 2015, the fellowship is awarded every three years to the first-place laureate of the renowned Banff International String Quartet Competition (BISQC) in Canada. The residency is currently shared by the Los Angeles-based Viano String Quartet and the London-based Marmen Quartet. Martha and Preston Peak raised their three daughters in Dallas. Mrs. Peak’s growing family, including 2 granddaughters and a great-grandson, celebrates her enduring legacy this evening. Event Leadership Event Leadership Julie Butler Event Chair Debbie Tolleson Event Chair Meadows Executive Board Jennifer Burr Altabef ’78, ’81 Chair Sarah Fullinwider Perot ’83 Vice Chair Gerald Alley ’75 Jorge Baldor ’93 Belle Berg ’71 Stephanie Chantilis Bray ’85 Diane Brierley Brad Burns ’87 Julie Butler ’92 Diane W. Byrd ’89 Joanne Leonhardt Cassullo ’83 Jeanne Marie Clossey ’89 Martin Cox ’75 Frances Cudjoe-Waters Linda Pitts Custard ’60 Pedie Danis ’95 Barbara Daseke Giles Davidson Rick del Monte Sean Donovan’96 Sally Dunning Laura Elcock Matrice Ellis-Kirk Bess Enloe ’60 Linda Perryman Evans Heather E. Furniss ’82 Linda Gibbons Clarence Gilyard, Jr. ’06 Doyle Glass ’84 ’88 Pilar Henry Kelli Herd ’83 Ann Hobson Joseph F. Hubach Shemara Jeyarajah Gene C. Jones Barbara Lemmon Pedro Lerma, Jr. Charlene Marsh ’91 Sara Martineau Stacey McCord ’92 Sharon McCullough Scott J. McLean ’78 Peter M. Miller Francie Moody-Dahlberg ’91 Edwin S. Morgan ’93 Pat Morgan-McEvoy Alfreda B. Norman ’81 Marc V. Patrick ’93 Eric Paulson ’80 Anne Spivey Paup ’73 D.J. “Shangela” Pierce ’03 Caren H. Prothro Paul Rasmussen ’04 Helen Risch Frank Roby ’74 Martha Peak Rochelle ’76 Cindy Schwartz ’79 Marvin Singleton ’89 Claire Spaht ’94 Steven Stodghill Elisa Summers Emily Rich Summers ’66 Barb Sypult Regina Taylor ’81 Andy Teller ’86 Mary Ann H. Till Brad Todd Debbie Tolleson Lisa Troutt Gail Turner Jamie Gilmer Williams ’68 Ex Officio Members Brad E. Cheves Vice President for Development and External Affairs Robert H. Dedman, Jr. ’80, ’84 Chair, SMU Board of Trustees Samuel S. Holland, Ph.D. Algur H. Meadows Dean Elizabeth Loboa, Ph.D. Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs R. Gerald Turner, Ph.D. President