Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Academics Xavier Home Academics Filter Results Program Level All Undergraduate Graduate Field of Study All Arts Athletics Business Communication Education Exploratory Health/Medicine Honors Humanities Language and International Affairs Online Politics Social Impact STEM Sustainability Field of Study All Arts Athletics Business Communication Education Exploratory Health/Medicine Honors Humanities Politics STEM Field of Study All Athletics Business Education Health/Medicine Humanities Language and International Affairs Online Politics Social Impact Sustainability Academic Programs Xavier offers more than 90 majors and minors within the College of Arts and Sciences, the College of Professional Sciences, the Williams College of Business and the College of Nursing. Xavier also offers programs for students who plan to further their education in medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, optometry, and pharmacy. Graduate programs are offered in 30 areas, including doctoral degrees in psychology, nursing, leadership studies and occupational therapy. College of Arts and Sciences Actuarial Science Study economics, finance and statistics to graduate eligible for the nation's highest-paying jobs. Advertising Dive into the realm of creative brainstorming, digital media and market research. Applied Chemistry Enter the field of chemical engineering through science, design, mathematics and technology. Applied Physics Explore the universe on a large scale all the way down to the sub-atomic level. Art Perfect your craft—whether it's printmaking, ceramics, photography or fiber arts. Biology Biology is the basis for many science-based careers from medicine to lab research. Biomedical Sciences Study biology, chemistry and physics and graduate ready to enter medical or dental school. Biophysics Explore principles in physics that describe patterns seen in biological systems. Chemical Science Combine knowledge of chemistry with a background in finance, analytics or education. Chemistry Study analytical, biochemistry, inorganic, organic, and physical chemistry. Classics Study Greek and Roman mythology, art and archaeology. Communication Studies Bring people together through public speaking, internal communications and theory. Computer Science Gain an understanding of computer processes and algorithms. Data Science The cohort-based honors program introduces the analytical and real-world needs of data science. Digital Innovation, Film, and Television Master the art of visual storytelling. Digital Media Have what it takes to go viral? Economics Develop an understanding of micro and macroeconomics and economic policy. Economics, Sustainability and Society Learn to solve sustainability challenges in economic, social-impact and cultural settings. Engineering Physics Discover how natural science and engineering come together. English Explore publishing, marketing, journalism and web content management. Environmental Science Take steps toward solving environmental problems to help make the world a more sustainable place. ENVS - Environmental Management Learn more about declaring the Environmental Science with a Concentration in Environmental Management major at Xavier. Exploratory Choose the perfect career path by starting classes at Xavier before declaring a major. French and Francophone Studies Learn more about declaring the French major at Xavier. Gender and Diversity Studies Examine privilege, peace, justice, identity and awareness in our modern world. German Master the German language through reading, writing and speaking. Graphic Design Study art, technology and marketing to succeed as a creative designer. History Study events, people and ideas of the past. International Studies Discover new world views and learn to assess international trends. Land, Farming and Community Focus on the necessity and benefits of small-scale, sustainable and diversified food production. Life Sciences for Business Prepare for leadership in the Biotech industry by combining a bachelor of science with a Xavier MBA. Mathematics Formulate and solve problems, analyze data and create and analyze models of real-world phenomena. Modern Language and International Economics Gain skills to address international economic issues and work in the global arena. Music BA, Performance Concentration Explore music theory, music history, pedagogy, esthetics and music education. Music BA, Production Concentration Learn about the world of music production, from Garage Band to studio recording. Music Education Graduate with the licensure needed to teach music for ages 3-21. Musical Theatre Study singing, dancing and performance. Philosophy Engage in the discussion of human nature, morality, technology and faith. Philosophy, Politics and the Public Explore politics, government and policy advocacy in this selective honors program. Physics Work in labs designed for experiments in electronics, holography, quantum optics, nuclear physics and more. Political Science Learn firsthand about the practice of government and politics. Pre-Law Program Develop the verbal, written and analytical skills needed to succeed in law school. Pre-Professional Health Learn a holistic approach to healthcare that's focused on a patient's overall health and wellness. Public Relations Become a pro at event planning and communicating on behalf of companies. Sociology Study social behavior, cultural diversity, inequality, and social change. Spanish Get a passport to the world through reading, writing, speaking and experiencing the Spanish language. Theatre Education Combine theatre classes with courses to receive your license to teach theatre to grades PK - 12. Theatre Study performance, stagecraft, directing and writing. Theology (MA) Pursue personal enrichment and the grounding for a variety of Christian career options. Theology Embrace humanity's experience of God and discover how it's expressed through doctrines and rituals. College of Nursing Accelerated BSN Program Whether you’ve always wanted to be a nurse or recently felt called to become an RN, our second-degree Accelerated BSN program in Cincinnati, Columbus or Cleveland can connect you with that path in 16 months. Family Nurse Practitioner - Online (MSN) A program designed to prepare registered nurses to become family nurse practitioners. Forensic Nursing - Online (MSN) A program designed for registered nurses to apply science and nursing to both civil and criminal investigation and legal matters. Nursing Become a skilled, well trained nurse in a program that connects you to professionals across the city and nation. Nursing (MSN) The second-degree pre-licensure MSN (MIDAS program) is designed for individuals with a bachelor degree in another discipline who wish to be registered nurses. Nursing Education- Online (MSN) A program designed to provide registered nurses with advanced-level preparation in the principles of nurse education. Nursing/Criminal Justice- Online (MSN/MS Dual Degree) This program integrates two degrees—the Master of Science in Nursing (Forensic Track) and the Master of Science in Criminal Justice. Population Health Nursing - Online (DNP) A population health-focused post-master's degree for registered nurses who want to be leaders in the healthcare field. College of Professional Sciences Adolescence to Young Adult (Secondary Education MEd) Prepare to become a competent, professional, beginning, secondary or pre K-12 school teacher. Athletic Training (MS) Collaborate with other health care professionals to provide care for the entire person-not just the injury. Clinical Mental Health Counseling (MA) Play a significant role assisting the lives of individuals and communities with problems and concerns. Clinical Psychology (PsyD) Provide psychological services in today's changing professional climate. Criminal Justice - Online (MS) Train to provide effective and efficient oversight in matters related to crime and justice. Criminal Justice Tap into the real-world excitement of law enforcement, crime scene investigation and constitutional law. Educational Administration (MEd) Get the tools needed to lead a school or school district in a positive direction. Executive MHSA - Online (MHSA) A CAHME-accredited, nationally-ranked program preparing leaders in healthcare management. Exercise Science Help people live healthier lives through exercise, rehabilitation and nutrition. Health Services Administration Learn how to handle the critical jobs in information systems, finance and marketing for hospitals. History or English Education (MA) Study the past, or help young people finish high school fully prepared for college. Master of Health Services Administration (MHSA) A CAHME-accredited, nationally-ranked program preparing leaders in healthcare management. Master of Social Work (MSW) Xavier University and Saint Louis University have partnered to offer an innovative Master of Social Work (MSW) program through SLU’s School of Social Work. Learn more about one of the top-ranked MSW programs in Ohio. Middle Childhood Education Specialize in social studies, math, science or reading while developing the skills needed to teach grades 4-9. Montessori (Online MEd) Learn to inspire and educate the future generation through hands-on-learning, self-directed play and collaboration. Montessori Education Learn what it takes to be a Montessori educator. Montessori Education (MEd) Become scientific observers who can provide students with developmentally-appropriate environments. Multicultural Literature (MEd) Expose children to a wealth of literature from a broad and increasingly diverse variety of different cultures. Occupational Therapy Doctorate (OTD) Improve people's lives by using meaningful activity to address physical, emotional or educational needs, P-5 Primary Education (Early Childhood Education) Gain the skills needed to shape the lives of children in preschool through third grade. Primary Education (Elementary MEd) Combine the latest theories, practice and opportunities for curriculum development and application. Psychology Gain a better understanding of human behavior. Radiologic Technology and MRI Learn how to produce quality images of human tissues, organs, bones and vessels using imaging equipment. Reading Specialist (MEd) Influence youth to become lifelong readers–and in turn–lifelong learners. School Counseling (MA) Gain the individual attention, community building, ethics and values it takes to work in a school setting. Secondary Education Learn more about the undergraduate Secondary Education program at Xavier. Social Work Empower individuals and communities by connecting them with resources and advocating for social change. Special Education (MEd/MSEd) On campus program. Prepare to become a competent, professional, beginning, secondary or pre K-12 school teacher. Special Education (Online MEd/MSEd) Better serve and educate students with special needs. Special Education Gain the skills needed to shape the lives of children in as an intervention specialist. Sport Administration Develop leadership skills and prepare for success within the expanding sport industry. Sport Management Gain experience through organizing, budgeting and evaluating official sports organizations. Sport Marketing Explore the world of sport marketing, from PR to advertising, digital media and more. Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (MEd in TESOL) Respect the diversity and multiculturalism of English language learners. Williams College of Business Accounting Measure, process and communicate financial information for companies and corporations. Business Administration (MBA) Get immersed in leadership, team-building and strategy courses to prepare for an ever-changing business world. Business Analytics Help businesses make better decisions through data analysis and statistical modeling. Business Undecided Gain the knowledge, skills and networking needed to succeed in today's business world. Customer Analytics (MS) Help companies make data-led, customer-centric, problem-solving, business decisions. Economics Study how wealth, goods and services affect the world and its economies. Entrepreneurial Studies Learn to use new ideas and innovations to solve problems. Executive MBA (EMBA) The 16-month EMBA for seasoned corporate executives immerses students in leadership, team-building and strategy. Finance Discover the techniques for making effective financial decisions for indidivuals and companies. International Business Gain a foundation in international business principles and practices within world trade and economies. management major Master the techniques it takes to guide a team to greatness. Marketing Master the world of marketing, from sales and advertising to research and brand management. Master's in Accountancy (MS) The Master of Science in Accountancy program prepares students for careers as accountants. Find details about the MS in Accountancy at Xavier University, located in Cincinnati, Ohio. MBA - Online (MBA) Be prepared to make an immediate impact in the evolving business world. Filter Results Program Level All Undergraduate Graduate Field of Study All Arts Athletics Business Communication Education Exploratory Health/Medicine Honors Humanities Language and International Affairs Online Politics Social Impact STEM Sustainability Field of Study All Arts Athletics Business Communication Education Exploratory Health/Medicine Honors Humanities Language and International Affairs Politics Social Impact STEM Sustainability Field of Study All Athletics Business Education Health/Medicine Humanities Online Social Impact Get More Information Financial Aid Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram