COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Courtesy photo Rola Khaleel chose Wichita State University to study in the College of Health Professions for its variety of academic programs and its location. May 12, 2022Graduate ProfilesCollege of Health ProfessionsGraduatesstudentsTalent PipelineAudiology Meet a Shocker: Rola Khaleel By Paul Suellentrop Rola Khaleel enjoyed the clinical experiences in audiology during her time at Wichita State University. She will use those lessons as she continues in her career. Rola is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Hometown Zarqa, Jordan Degree I am receiving my doctorate in audiology. What made you want to attend Wichita State? I chose Wichita State University because of the different majors/learning experiences offered. I also liked that WSU is close to home. How are you feeling leading up to graduation? I am very thankful to have received my bachelor’s and doctorate degrees from Wichita State University, and I am excited to apply all that I have learned during my time here. What was been your biggest challenge as a student, and how did you overcome it? The biggest challenge for me as a student was being okay with making mistakes. I had wonderful instructors that encouraged me to learn from my mistakes so I can be a better healthcare provider. What has been your most helpful learning experience at Wichita State? The hands-on clinical experiences that the audiology program offered are, by far, the most valuable part of my education. What are your plans after graduation? I will be getting married soon after graduation and moving to Allentown, Penn. How did the COVID-19 pandemic affect your time at Wichita State? COVID-19 impacted my clinical rotations and I, unfortunately, had to miss out on a few learning experiences. Thankfully, I was able to make it up once hospitals and clinics started accepting student clinicians back at their facilities. What advice would you give other Wichita State students? Trust your intuition and always seek opportunities to grow! College of Engineering Since 1928, Wichita State University's College of Engineering has built a reputation for equipping engineering and computing students with the most complete education possible. Learn more Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio Talent Pipeline NIAR WERX announces MRO program expansion with Erickson Precision Ventures Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats WSU Foundation Woolseys give $1.3 million to fulfill vision for Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©