Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health The Rutgers Experience Uniquely New Jersey Uniquely New Jersey Our state and our university are prolific—offering countless opportunities to learn, explore, meet new people, and make a difference in the community, in New Jersey, and beyond. Our People New Jersey may be small, but it’s the 11th most populous U.S. state. You’ll find people here from all walks of life and from all over the world. The same is true at Rutgers. Our nearly 70,000 students—from every New Jersey county, every state in the nation, and 130 countries—are learning and preparing for success. Since the state's inception, New Jersey has been characterized by ethnic and religious diversity. Our campus diversity is noteworthy enough to catch the attention of U.S. News & World Report, which recognizes Rutgers–Newark as the second most ethnically diverse college campus and in the top 20 for economic diversity among all national universities. Our Locations Rutgers University has three main regional locations that are well positioned to serve the needs of our students, wherever they reside in the Garden State. The flagship location in New Brunswick offers students a taste of everything—with a busy urban core that spills out across both banks of the Raritan River, giving way to bucolic green spaces and a more “classic” campus atmosphere. In Newark, Rutgers is anchoring the state’s largest city and is at the doorstep of New York City and all the opportunity that awaits. Likewise, in Camden, just across the Delaware River from downtown Philadelphia, students benefit from a small, close-knit learning community that has access to all the big-city amenities that make living and working in Philly a draw. An Economic Growth Environment From major pharmaceutical, life sciences, and financial services firms to advanced manufacturing, information technology, and transportation and logistics operations, New Jersey boasts a diverse economy and is a hub for business and innovation. Rutgers plays a large role in turning great ideas into products, services, and policies that make a difference. The Garden State is home to 19 Fortune 500 companies, four of which are Fortune 100 companies, many of which employ Rutgers grads and/or partner with the university. At Rutgers Business School–Newark and New Brunswick, the Center for Urban Entrepreneurship and Economic Development (CUEED) is the first center of its kind in the nation to integrate scholarly works with private capital, government, and nonprofit sectors to develop resources in the city of Newark, and bring renewed economic growth and vitality through urban entrepreneurship. Central to It All Rutgers is proud to be The State University of New Jersey, the Garden State's premier, comprehensive public research university, with educational and outreach programs that reach residents in all 21 New Jersey counties. Positioned between the commercial hubs of New York City and Philadelphia, with 90 miles of coastline along the way—New Jersey is both a home base and a destination for millions of people. The only university in the United States that is a colonial college, a land-grant institution, and a leading national public research university, Rutgers has a 250-plus-year history of tackling new challenges and meeting the needs of each rising generation. So Much to Do and See The state’s northwest provides a mountainous escape from the bustle of city life. All along the famous Jersey Shore, you’ll find a variety of historic beach towns, each with a unique character. Central Jersey (yes, it exists) offers a variety of natural attractions, including Point Pleasant Beach, Manasquan Reservoir park, and Monmouth Battlefield State Park. South of Rutgers–Camden, the state gets spacious and forested, before spilling into the famous Jersey Shore destinations of Atlantic City and Cape May. 40 percent of New Jersey is forested—that’s 2 million acres! Wharton State Forest is the largest state forest in New Jersey 42 state parks, 11 state forests, 3 recreation areas can be found across the state in addition to local parks 130 miles of coastline span the state from Sandy Hook to Cape May 1,803 feet (550 m) is the apex of New Jersey, and can be found at High Point State Park located in the portion of the state known as the Skylands 72 miles of the Appalachian Trail run through the northwest corner of New Jersey 2,000+ native plant species, including more than 400 rare plants 400+ species of vertebrate wildlife can be found in New Jersey Explore Rutgers University Explore Rutgers’ locations and its biomedical and health sciences units and see how each offers students, faculty, and the community a unique taste of New Jersey and its state university. Rutgers University–New Brunswick Rutgers University–Newark Rutgers University–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences Why Choose New Jersey? As the Garden State's flagship university, Rutgers has transformed the lives of individuals who go on to transform the world through their professional and philanthropic endeavors. Learn more about how Rutgers and other New Jersey colleges and universities are working in partnership with the business community to invest in New Jersey’s future. Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster