Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Diversity & Inclusion Menu Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It! Baylor>Diversity & Inclusion>Train & Learn>Cultural Events>Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events MLK Community Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. once said, "Life's most persistent and urgent question is: 'What are you doing for others?'" Every year, Americans answer this call by coming together on Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day of Service to serve in their neighborhoods and communities. 2022 Calendar of Events (Please note all events are subject to change due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic) Special thanks to the following departments: Office of the President, Baylor Police Department, Campus Recreation, Environmental Health & Safety, External Affairs, Health Management Team, Institutional Events, Marketing and Communications, Missions and Public Life, Multicultural Affairs, Office of Governmental Relations, Parking Services, and Student Activities. Baylor University Events Monday, January 17 MLK Day of Service - Campus Sponsored by Missions and Public Life Bobo Spiritual Life Center (Parking lot at the corner of S. 5th Street and James Ave., Waco, Texas) 9:00 AM to 1:00 PM Virtual service projects and a drive-thru collection site. Visit website for donation list. Contact CES@baylor.edu for more information. Tuesday, January 18 I Have a Dream Tuesday Sponsored by the Department of Multicultural Affairs Share your dream for your family, community, or the world and tag us on Instagram. Contact Multicultural_Affairs@baylor.edu for more information. Wednesday, January 19 The Life and Legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration Luncheon Sponsored by the Department of Multicultural Affairs This event has been postponed until March 22, 2022. Additional details to follow. Wisdom Wednesday Take a moment to reflect on some of Dr. King's most memorable speeches. Online Thursday, January 20 Throwback Thursday Sponsored by the Department of Multicultural Affairs Join us as we reminiscence about MLK Celebrations of the past on Instagram. Friday, January 21 King Me! Sponsored by the Department of Multicultural Affairs Join us for MLK-related trivia all day on Instagram. Contact Multicultural_Affairs@baylor.edu for more information. Community Events Friday, January 14 35th Annual Wreath Laying Ceremony Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial Park 300 MLK Blvd., Waco, Texas Individuals may place a wreath at the monument anytime from January 14 through January 17. Please adhere to City of Waco social distancing guidelines and health protocols. Sunday, January 16 "Holy Eucharist: Celebrating the Life of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr." Hosted by Washington National Cathedral Online 10:15 AM CST Monday, January 17 25th Annual Martin Luther King, Jr. March & Observance Hosted by Zeta Phi Beta Sorority, Inc. Delta Upsilon Zeta and Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc. Gamma Omicron Sigma Event Canceled MLK Day of Service - Community Hosted by Mission Waco 1319 N. 15th Street, Waco, Texas 10:30 AM to 3:30 PM Free lunch and prayer followed by service projects. Visit their website for more information. 36th Annual Candlelight Vigil 6:00 PM Email OGR@baylor.edu for more information and/or to request the link to attend. The opportunities listed on this page/graphic are offered by churches and organizations unrelated to Baylor University. These opportunities are offered as a public service to entities that could benefit from the volunteer efforts of Baylor students. Baylor University does not inspect or approve the activities of these entities and is not liable for any injuries or damages that may occur. Baylor recommends that students comply with all COVID-19 related recommendations by government health officials, including those related to wearing of masks and social distancing. Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It!