Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites Academic and Student Affairs Departments Inbound Programs Outbound Programs Partnership Programs Events About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Office of International Programs Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Office of International Programs Inbound Programs Inbound Programs Information for Students Information for Faculty, Researchers and Physicians Information for IIRP, Observers, and Visitors Outbound Programs Outbound Programs International Travel Advisories Professional and Personal Travel for Faculty and Staff Resident Travel Information International Educational Experiences Financial Awards for IEEs Global Health and International Exchange Faculty Forum Partnership Programs Partnership Programs Sino-US Advanced Health Care Exchange Modale Fellowship Program Kovac International Observership Award Dr. Archie A. Heddings Program Redford Fellowship Program Events Events Community Conversations Events Calendar Foundations of Global Health Series Clinical Culture and Diversity Series Global Bridges Program Health and Safety International Education Week About About Staff Announcements Monthly Newsletter Agreements Forms Directory Make a Gift Discover how our programming helps support global research, diverse academic experiences and the medical center's international population. Proclamation Requires Nonimmigrant or Noncitizen Travelers to be Fully Vaccinated Starting November 8 In an interdependent world, International Programs believes that it is essential for faculty, students, and staff to have the opportunity to become personally and intellectually familiar with the people, ideas, and customs of other nations. Such interaction not only promotes a universal perspective and intellectual growth, but also contributes to the cultural and economic well-being of the university, the state, and the nation. Emergency Contact If you are experiencing an emergency related to international travel, or if you are an international with an emergency related to your status, please call +1-816-668-6414. "Why do you go away? So that you can come back. So that you can see the place you came from with new eyes and extra colors. And the people there see you differently, too. Coming back to where you started is not the same as never leaving." - Terry Pratchett Academic and Student Affairs University of Kansas Medical Center Office of International Programs 5007, 5004, 5010, & 5012 Wescoe Academic Affairs Mail Stop 3033 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Kansas City, KS 66160 Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.