Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Teaching & Learning Resources Learning Collaborative News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Staff Jobs at the Center We currently have the following staff openings at the Sheridan Center. If you are considering any of these positions, you may be interested in Brown's Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan (DIAP), Sheridan's DIAP and strategic plan, Brown's generous moving, tuition, and other benefits, as well as life in Providence, RI. Currently, all of these positions are hybrid-eligible but please note that these designations are regularly reviewed by the University. If you have questions, please email [email protected]. We will put you in touch with the appropriate hiring manager. Program Manager for Academic Tutoring The Sheridan Center at Brown University is hiring a Program Manager for Academic Tutoring. The individual will join the dynamic Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics (STEM) Hub, a collaborative and diverse team dedicated to student learning and development. The Program Manager will work in close collaboration with the Associate Director for Academic Tutoring to provide support and direction for the Academic Tutoring Program. Essential functions of the position are to increase support for athletic tutoring, tutor training, coordination between program and courses, and provide administrative support for the Academic Tutoring Program. The Program Manager will also collaborate with the STEM Hub and other Sheridan staff to promote student learning and success across the curriculum. For additional information and application, see the Brown Career site (REQ177107). Please submit a cover letter and CV, bundled as a single .pdf. Applications accepted on a rolling basis until the position is filled. Educational Media Producer, Editor The Educational Media Producer, Editor, is a member of the Digital Learning & Design team, within the Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning that includes learning designers, technologists, educational media producers, and support specialists who partner with Brown faculty to develop courses and integrate learning technology to create engaging learning experiences. The position works to produce educational media content for Brown courses, including course content video, interviews, audio podcasts, voiceover recordings, motion graphics, animations, graphic elements, and screencast tutorials. The majority of the Educational Media Producer, Editor’s time is spent editing, creating motion graphics and animations, and managing other post-production tasks. This individual brings video and audio stories to life by making structural, creative, and selective editorial decisions. They create motion graphics and animations to visualize complex concepts and ideas, and also design and implement static and interactive graphic assets for course pages and websites. The Educational Media Producer, Editor works on multiple projects at once and may participate in planning and pre-production. They may serve as project lead on certain media projects ensuring that deadlines and outcomes are met. Additionally, they work with colleagues to support instructors by providing one-to-one consultations and contributing to group training sessions and the development of media guides and documentation. As part of a team, the Educational Media Producer works to design and develop media that is accessible and inclusive of diverse audiences, and reflects Brown’s commitment to high-quality, accessible course and media design. For more information and to apply, please see the Brown Career site (REQ176634). Please submit a cover letter and CV, bundled as a single .pdf, and link(s) to samples of work that you feel would be relevant to this position. For full consideration, please apply by April 1, 2022. Learning Technologist Brown University has an exciting and immediate opportunity for a Learning Technologist to work as part of a team dedicated to engaging in new online program development within the Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning. The core responsibilities of this position are to explore, evaluate, recommend, and support learning technologies that enhance online instruction and foster learner success. The successful candidate will have a passion for developing interactive online experiences, knowledge of the administration and integration of current learning technologies, as well as current accessibility standards, and demonstrated technical and interpersonal skills. At the Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning, the successful candidate will be joining a team of educational developers with diverse perspectives and experiences who are each committed to educational excellence, equity, and access at Brown. Staff within this vibrant center thrive on interdisciplinary collaboration, genuine curiosity, and evidence-based, reflective practices. For more information and to apply, please see the Brown Career site (REQ175174). Please submit a cover letter and CV, bundled as a single .pdf. For full consideration, please apply by January 5, 2021. About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top