Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Center for Community Engagement CCE right arrow down arrow Programs right arrow down arrow Bearcat Buddies right arrow down arrow Tutor Resources Bearcat Buddies Lead Tutor Program Bearcat Buddies: Pre-Register Service Learning right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences Service-Learning Volunteer Resources right arrow down arrow Student Groups Scholarship Service Hours FAQ Awards & Scholarships Transportation After Graduation right arrow down arrow Year of Service Opportunities Community Partners right arrow down arrow Community Work Study Social Change right arrow down arrow RAPP Diversity Programming Fund Social Change and Leadership Resources War in Ukraine UC Votes right arrow down arrow UC Votes Resources Staff Home » Campus Life » Center for Community Engagement Center for Community Engagement The Center for Community Engagement (CCE) connects campus to our community through service. Join the CCE mailing list and engage with us on social media @UC_CCE to stay up to date. For COVID-19 updates visit uc.edu/publichealth or call 513-556-7200. Students Students can find opportunities to participate in semester-long volunteer opportunities such as Bearcat Buddies, dive in to a one-time volunteer need, or find ongoing volunteer opportunities in the community all year long! While virtual volunteer opportunities are always available, students are permitted to participate in COVID Careful in-person volunteer activities at this time. The expectation is that students only engage with in-person volunteer activities through organizations that take precautions comparable to the university's own safety protocols. Find a volunteer opportunity Community Partners The CCE can help community partners connect with Bearcat volunteers and other university resources. A great place for non-profit organizations to start to tap into UC talent and energy is to request an account on volunteer.uc.edu by completing our intake form. If your organization has opportunities for UC volunteers to support their neighbors, contactact community.engagement@uc.edu or consider joining us on volunteer.uc.edu through the link above. Learn More Co-op With the CCE! The CCE is now hiring a variety of on-campus co-ops for the fall. All of our open positions can be found in Handshake: Civic Influencers: These co-ops will work on our fall midterm election initiatives. These positions come with a stipend from Civic Influencers. Democracy Fellows: Similar to Civic Influencers, these co-ops will also work on our fall midterm election initiatives. These positions come with a stipend from the Campus Vote Project. Community Engagement Co-op: Support the Bearcat Buddies program, CCE outreach, and other programs/ events. This position is paid hourly at $12 per hour. Work Study Bearcat Buddies Driver: Help to transport Bearcat Buddies to various tutoring sites around Cincinnati. This is paid via work study at $12 an hour. Bearcat Buddies Driver: Transport Bearcat Buddies to various tutoring sites around Cincinnati. This is paid hourly at $12 per hour. Location 2639 Clifton Avenue Stratford Heights - Building 19 PO Box 210138 Cincinnati, Ohio 45221-0138 ML 0138 Office Hours Monday: 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. Tuesday: 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. Wednesday: 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. Thursday: 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. Friday: 9 a.m. – 4 p.m. Closed Saturday and Sunday except for special events Contact Us community.engagement@uc.edu 513-556-1559 Center for Community Engagement staff are accessible via phone, email, and in-person. We're happy to schedule a web meeting via Microsoft Teams, WebEx, or Zoom or an in-person meeting if you would like to connect with us. Visits to the CCE offices and virtual meetings are by appointment only at this time. To connect with the CCE call 513-556-1559 or contact us at community.engagement@uc.edu. Center for Community Engagement PO Box 210138 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0138 513-556-1559 community.engagement@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Center for Community Engagement PO Box 210138 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0138 513-556-1559 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top