Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? PI Responsibilities and Resources NIH PI Responsibilities The PI must develop a discipline-specific, tailored plan for RCR training that meets the NIH requirements. The instructional plan is evaluated as a component of the NIH funding proposal. Applications without an RCR instructional plan may be delayed in the review process or not reviewed The RCR instructional plan must meet NIH requirements for educational content, training format, and frequency. Brown encourages PIs to use available Template RCR Plans for Grants Applications and to modify/tailor these plans as needed based on discipline specific considerations. The RCR instructional plan must include coursework with significant face-to-face interaction and involve participation by research faculty members. While on-line instruction may be used as a component of the training program, it is not sufficient to meet the NIH requirement for RCR instruction. PIs wishing to use supplemental online instruction as part of their training program, can use the Brown CITI RCR Course as part of their instructional plan. All the NIH required topics are addressed in the CITI RCR coursework. If used, the most relevant, discipline-specific CITI RCR course (Biomedical Research, Social and Behavioral Research, Physical Science, Humanities, or Engineering) should be specified. The CITI RCR course also offers online case studies that can be used for face-to-face discussions. The PI is responsible for ensuring that trainees, fellows, and scholars on qualifying NIH awards have completed RCR training. While the Office of Research Integrity will maintain completion records centrally and send informational and reminder notifications regarding NIH RCR training requirements, the PI is responsible for informing trainees, fellows, and scholars on qualifying NIH awards of this important requirement and reminding them to retain their own training completion records. The PI must comply with specific reporting requirements in continuation applications. NSF PI Responsibilities PIs do not need to include RCR program details in their proposals; NSF only requires certification that a program is in place. The PI is responsible for ensuring that students and postdocs complete the RCR requirement. PIs should direct the trainees to enroll in one of Brown’s in-person RCR programs or complete the RCR CITI training module. While the Office of Research Integrity will maintain completion records centrally and send informational and reminder notifications regarding NSF RCR training requirements, the PI is responsible for informing students and postdocs on qualifying NIH awards of this important requirement and reminding them to retain their own training completion records. While Brown currently accepts completion of the CITI online course in the Responsible Conduct of Research as satisfying the NSF RCR training requirement, the institution strongly recommends that all students and postdocs supported by NSF sponsored projects complete one of Brown's in-person RCR courses. The PI is also encouraged to familiarize herself with RCR topics, best practices, and ethical and compliance standards, and discuss responsible conduct of research with students and postdocs in the lab or in the research group. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) RCR Programs at Brown FAQs PI Responsibilities & Resources Template RCR Plans for Grants How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat