HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation FACILITIES Facilities Homepage Fike Recreation Center Featuring Swann Fitness Center Douthit Hills Fitness Center Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex Policies and Procedures Facility Hours Facility Counts Floor Plan FITNESS AND WELLNESS Group Fitness F45 Small Group Training Fitness Assessments Personal Training Wellness Zone INTRAMURAL SPORTS CORE CORE Homepage Register for a Trip Rent Outdoor Equipment Develop Your Skills Request a Custom Trip Apply for a Job Explore Spring Break Trips Explore Winter Break Trips Explore Trips for Incoming Students Contact Us CLUB SPORTS Club Sports Homepage Club Officer Resources Visiting Team Resources Homepage Register for a Trip Rent Outdoor Equipment Develop Your Skills Request a Custom Trip Apply for a Job Explore Spring Break Trips Explore Winter Break Trips Explore Trips for Incoming Students Contact Us CORE Clinics Wilderness First Aid Certification: A certification course that serves as a fun, hands-on introduction to wilderness medicine. A WFA certification is widely considered to be the minimum standard of training to be eligible to work in an outdoor recreation environment. WFA certification is through American Red Cross. Leave No Trace Trainer Certification: The backcountry course is a vital component of the national Leave No Trace program and a great resource for the aspiring outdoor professional or anyone interested in learning more about minimum impact skills and ethics. Skill Clinics: Skill clinics will be offered throughout the semester on a variety of topics. These courses are meant to be a more easily accessible way to learn and refine one’s outdoor skills for those who might not always have a weekend free. How to Register for a Clinic: Please use the Calendar to browse for skills clinics dates and details. Once you have found a clinic you would like to register for click on the link for the Registration Portal to register online. If you would like to register in person, please visit the CORE office at Andy’s during our open hours. Skills clinics are scheduled during Fall, Spring and Summer Semesters. If you missed one this semester look for similar clinic offerings next semester. Don't forget to register well in advance to secure your spot! Click here to view the Online Registration Portal CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster