Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Senior Administration About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Senior Administration>President's Council>Kevin P. Jackson Kevin P. Jackson Vice President for Student Life Kevin P. Jackson Vice President for Student Life Dr. Kevin P. Jackson, vice president for student life, joined Baylor University in July 2009 to lead a comprehensive student life division dedicated to enhancing students’ educational, spiritual, cultural, and physical development. In this role, he has broad responsibility for the areas of campus life, student development, student learning and engagement, which includes residential living and spiritual life. With more than 30 years of higher education experience, he previously held positions at Texas A&M University, including assistant vice president for student affairs and visiting assistant professor with the College of Education and Human Development, director for student activities, and senior associate director of the student union. Prior to his work at A&M, he served as an associate director for student union and activities at the University of Denver. He earned a doctorate in educational human resource development from A&M, a master’s degree in higher education administration from the University of Denver, and a bachelor’s degree cum laude in journalism and business from the University of North Texas. He is active in the National Association of Student Personnel Administrators (NASPA), serving previously as chair of the NASPA Conference Career Services Committee and as the Texas State Director for NASPA Region III. He has been named an outstanding alumnus of the College of Education and Human Development at Texas A&M and a distinguished member of the National Society of Collegiate Scholars. He and his wife, Garret, a reading specialist for Midway Independent School District, are parents of three daughters: Taylor, Lauren, and Emily. More Information Division of Student Life Senior Administration Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor