Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Visit HOME Admission Visit In This Section Admission Apply Visit Affordability Majors & Minors Choosing BC On-Campus Visitor Policies Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission The people of Boston College are at the heart of the experience here, and students guide our campus visits. The core of our Eagle Eye Campus Visit is a candid conversation with current students—an opportunity to ask them about classes, housing, Boston, service learning, and more. And our virtual visit programs allow you to engage with our community from the comfort of your home. Eagle Eye Campus Visit These two-hour visits include an information session and student-led outdoor campus tour. The information session features authentic conversation with current students. We also provide a live hour-long virtual opportunity for those unable to make it to our campus. Register for a Campus Visit Register for a Virtual Visit Themed Virtual Programs Throughout this fall, we offered a wide range of virtual programming to provide you with a closer look at the many experiences of Boston College students. All of these sessions are now available on demand. We offered sessions covering Early Decision, the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program, and QuestBridge. Whether you are thinking about freshman or transfer admission, we look forward to connecting with you! Watch Past Sessions Eagle for a Day (In-Person) Looking for an opportunity for a personalized and in-depth view of Boston College? Look no further and consider our Eagle for a Day program. If you've been to campus and perhaps already attended an Eagle Eye Campus Visit, the Eagle for a Day visit is a wonderful opportunity to take a closer look at life at Boston College. Learn More and Register Hosted by members of our Student Admission Program (SAP), the Eagle for a Day experience is an opportunity to learn more about the typical day in the life of a Boston College student. These three-hour visits provide an opportunity to attend class, accompany your host to lunch and meet their friends, and gain an in-depth look into what happens on campus. Inquire about classes and professors, campus clubs and organizations, residential life, and more. While geared towards rising seniors who may be narrowing down their college list, any prospective student interested in Boston College may register for an Eagle for a Day. We encourage you to prepare questions in advance. Please note, the Eagle for a Day visit is not an evaluative interview for admission, but rather an opportunity for you to connect with a current BC student. Boston College does not offer interviews as part of the admission process. Register for Eagle for a Day (In-Person) Eagle for a Discussion (Virtual) If you've already attended an Eagle Eye Campus Visit and would like to continue learning more about our campus community, consider registering for an Eagle for a Discussion. These 30-minute virtual chats will allow you to connect one-on-one with a current BC student. Learn More and Register Hosted by members of our Student Admission Program (SAP), these 30-minute one-on-one virtual discussions will allow you to ask the experts, our current students, specific questions about Boston College. Inquire about classes and professors, campus clubs and organizations, residential life, and more. While geared toward rising seniors who may be narrowing down their college list, any prospective student interested in Boston College may register for this Discussion. We encourage you to prepare questions in advance. Please note, these Discussions are not evaluative interviews for admission, but rather an opportunity for you to connect with a current BC student. Boston College does not offer interviews as part of the admission process. Register for Eagle for a Discussion (Virtual) Organization & High School Visits Groups of 10 or more members of college access/readiness organizations or college-bound high school students are welcome to join us for a 60-minute campus tour. Learn More and Register These 60-minute campus tours are offered for groups of 10 or more members of college access/readiness organizations in their sophomore, junior, and senior years of high school. Attendees will be encouraged to ask questions. Please register below and help us learn more about your group. All forms must be completed at least two weeks prior to your requested date. We will reply to your request within 10 business days. Register for an Organization & High School Visit Now Playing: Boston College Campus Tour Learn about the buildings, history, and campus life on a student-led tour of Boston College. BC Campus Audio Tour This audio tour of the Chestnut Hill Campus highlights our facilities, from state-of-the-art academic buildings to our iconic athletic stadium and other Boston College treasures. Download the Audio Tour Guide Meet the Student Admission Program One of the hallmarks of a Boston College visit is the opportunity to meet current students. With over 1100 student volunteers assisting the Admission Office, the Student Admission Program (SAP) is one of the most important and visible student organizations on campus. Take a look below to learn about the SAP Coordinators who work each day to provide you with the best campus visit experience possible. Filter Filter By Carroll CSON LSEHD MCAS All Carroll CSON LSEHD MCAS On-Demand Virtual Programs + - Admission & Financial Aid Applying in the COVID-19 Era Applying for Financial Aid How College Decisions are Made: Dissecting the Application Demystifying the Application Process for Underrepresented Students Early Decision, Human-Centered Engineering, and the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program Applying as a Recruited Athlete or Homeschooled Student, and Learning Disability Resources General Q&A with the BC Admission Staff Students Discuss Academics & Campus Life Research, Grad School, & Career Resources Focus on Residence Life Retreats and Reflection at BC From Welcome Week to Senior Week: BC Traditions Focus on Academic Life The AHANA Student Experience: Panel #1, Panel #2, Panel #3 The First-Year Experience Clubs, Organizations, and Social Life at BC: No Greek Life, no problem! Faculty Spotlight Introducing Human-Centered Engineering at BC Liberal Arts Advantage: Life, Liberty & Health/Life, Money, & Health Liberal Arts Advantage: Citizenship, Immigration & Education in the US Liberal Arts Advantage: Geographies of Imperialism - History/Theology of Colonization Coffee & Conversation: Faculty from history and sociology Coffee & Conversation: Faculty from global public health, biology, and pre-health advising Coffee and Conversation: Faculty from english and theatre Coffee and Conversation: Faculty from education & human development Coffee and Conversation: Faculty from economics and accounting For Parents Navigating the College Transition as Parents: Finding your place socially Navigating the College Transition as Parents: Academics Navigating the College Transition as Parents: Athletic recruiting and resources during COVID-19 Navigating the College Transition as Parents: Understanding Boston College's Mission & Identity See Yourself at BC Life on the Heights Play ALC Showdown Play BC Eagles vs. Duke Play BC Awaits Men & Women for Others Play Nursing in Nicaragua Play Appalachia Volunteers Play Campus School Volunteers Academics & Research Play Core Curriculum Play Schiller Institute Play Perspectives Program Our Campus Play Fall Play Night Play Spring Explore Our Campus Gasson Hall in the spring Every year, the Boston College Arts Festival brings the Boston College and surrounding communities together to celebrate the arts. BC dining services has 10 locations and a variety of options. Commonwealth Avenue connects BC's campus to downtown Boston. Higgins Hall is home to the Biology and Physics Departments. Gargan Hall in Bapst Library. Gasson Hall and Devlin Hall on middle campus Dedicated in 2018, the Harrington Athletics Village features baseball and softball stadiums. Follow Us Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College