Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Forward Arrow Undergraduate Admissions Cost and Aid Admissions Statistics Virtual Engagement Opportunities Contact Undergraduate Admissions Back Arrow Back Graduate School Admissions Visit Forward Arrow Visit Choose Your Tour Visitor Parking and Accommodations Things To Do in Clemson Back Arrow Back Applying to Clemson Forward Arrow Applying to Clemson First-Year Application Process Transfer Application Process International Application Process Counselor Information Veterans Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Admissions Undergraduate Admissions show submenu for Undergraduate Admissions Cost and Aid Admissions Statistics Virtual Engagement Opportunities Contact Undergraduate Admissions Graduate School Admissions Visit show submenu for Visit Choose Your Tour Visitor Parking and Accommodations Things To Do in Clemson Applying to Clemson show submenu for Applying to Clemson First-Year Application Process Transfer Application Process International Application Process Counselor Information Veterans Clemson Home Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Current: Course Transfer Information Course Transfer Information Clemson accepts several different college credits that students earn before arriving on our campus — including IB and AP credits. We also work to make the process of transferring into the University as seamless as possible. The evaluation of academic credits from other institutions is processed through the Office of Admissions. Final approval for use of these credits in your degree program is determined by your major adviser at Transfer Orientation. Transferring Credit Hours Only credits transfer to your Clemson transcript, not grades. Therefore, you will enter Clemson without a grade point ratio. Your class standing will be determined by the number of credit hours transferred when you enroll. Class Standing Credit Hours Freshman 0-29 Sophomore 30-59 Junior 60-89 Senior 90+ Generally, transfer credits are applicable toward degree requirements if the courses taken are: Earned at a school accredited by a regional accreditation association, such as the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. Similar in description to the corresponding course at Clemson. Required or permitted as an elective in a student’s curriculum. Graded at least one letter grade above minimum passing mark, usually a C or better. Not a duplication of credits already earned. Note: No course taken at a nonbaccalaureate degree institution may be used as an equivalent or substitute for any 3000- or 4000-level Clemson course. If you have specific questions regarding your major at Clemson, you may communicate with a faculty adviser by choosing the adviser contact by major. Transfer Course Equivalency List The Transfer Course Equivalency List (TCEL) is a database containing the Clemson University course equivalencies for approximately 1,200 accredited colleges and universities nationwide. Course equivalencies are evaluated through the Office of Admissions. The TCEL represents courses that have transferred credit to Clemson before. The TCEL is not comprehensive. Please be advised that the TCEL is only a history of how courses have transferred to Clemson, and it does not represent a comprehensive list of transferable coursework for any school. If there is a course you have previously taken that is not showing up on the TCEL, the course will have to be evaluated once you apply and are admitted to Clemson. The listing for each college shows course equivalencies only and does not reflect any differences in credit hours between institutions. The TCEL is regularly updated by the Office of Admissions. The TCEL is subject to edits by the Office of Admissions. It is a living document to which changes are continually being made. Evaluations for transfer credit by the Office of Admissions are based upon the best available information at the time. Revisions to a course evaluation may be made based on receipt of new information. Visit the Clemson TCEL How a transfer course is evaluated Your transfer course will be evaluated as a direct Clemson equivalent or as elective credit. Credit that has been evaluated as elective credit will be posted at ELEC 0001. Subject-area electives will be posted as 1999, 2999, 3999 or 4999 credit. Courses that do not have direct Clemson University equivalencies (e.g., ELEC 0001 or SOC 3999) may possibly be substituted for required courses in your degree program with approval by your major adviser. A course substitution form may be completed at that time if your major adviser approves. Substitutions of courses are processed through the Office of Enrolled Student Services. If you have a question about how a course has been evaluated, you may see the department responsible for teaching that course after enrolling at Clemson. A course syllabus may be necessary for further review. The following abbreviations are used when a course does not have a direct Clemson equivalency: NCT 0001 = Not College Transferable ELEC 0001 = Free elective credit 1999, 2999, 3999 or 4999 = Subject-area elective Check Courses You Wish to Transfer Download Advisers List by Subject (PDF) Cambridge International A Level, AP and IB Credits As a nationally ranked research university, Clemson welcomes students with AP, IB, Cambridge International A Levels and transfer credits. The University recognizes the academic value of earning college credits before even setting foot on campus, and we encourage students with credits to apply and transfer to Clemson. View Credit Transfer Charts Taking Credits at a South Carolina Technical College Our Advanced Standing Guide (PDF) provides you with a list of university transfer courses that may be taken at any of the South Carolina technical colleges. Please follow the curriculum outline in Clemson’s Undergraduate Catalog for the degree program that you plan to pursue at Clemson University, and take the equivalent courses as listed in the back of the Advanced Standing Guide (PDF). Students who are not sure which South Carolina college or university they would like to attend after their initial coursework at a South Carolina technical college should also consult the Advanced Standing Guide (PDF). We have the Statewide Articulation of 86 Courses referred to as the “List of Universally Transferable Courses” because it lists general education courses that are guaranteed to transfer to any two-or-four year public institution in South Carolina. While these courses are guaranteed to transfer, some may transfer as elective credit and not toward degree requirements. Therefore, students are advised to use the Transfer Credit Equivalency List and to consult with academic counselors to learn more about how these courses will transfer to each specific institution. Once You're Admitted — Viewing Transfer Credits Accepted students with transferring credits from another institution, AP/IB credit and dual-enrollment credit will be able to view transfer credits through the iROAR Web portal. In order to access the transfer credit summary, you will need your Clemson University ID and password. You may want to print a copy of your transfer credit summary for your records. It is recommended to bring a copy of the transfer credit summary when attending Orientation at Clemson. If you are still enrolled in classes, your current courses will be added when we receive your official transcript. The Office of Admissions must receive final transcripts from each college you have attended before your enrollment at Clemson. If you have received a “Satisfactory” or “Passing” grade for prior coursework and the grade is not reflected on your transcript, you will need to have an official statement from the registrar’s office of the institution you attended stating that the “S” or “P” grade is equivalent to a C or better in order to receive credit for the coursework. Clemson accepts courses for transfer only if earned with a grade of C or better. Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson