Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Hall of Distinction JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Climate & the Environment Energy Geosciences Marine Geosciences Planetary Sciences & Geobiology Solid Earth & Tectonic Processes Surface & Hydrologic Processes Research Disciplines Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Advising Admissions Internal Transfers Degrees Offered Jackson Scholars Program Honors Program Financial Support Courses & Catalogs Field Experiences Why Geosciences? TNT 2021 Graduate Advising Admissions Degrees Offered EER Graduate Program Find a Supervisor Financial Support Courses & Catalogs External Grants & Scholarships Graduate Studies Committee Advising & Program Coordination Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services Career Center Geology Library Holland Family Student Center People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Chemical or Physical Hydrogeology Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Structural Geology/Tectonics JSG Community Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Research Scientists Postdocs Staff Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Desk Blogs Texas Geosciences Science Y’all In the News Scientist Profiles Newsletter 2015 Newsletter 2014 Newsletter PDF Archive Media Contacts Events DeFord Lecture Series Master’s Saturday Heads/Chairs on the Future of Undergraduate Geoscience Education Workshop Summit Materials, PowerPoints and Webcast Archive Background Reading Agenda Graduation Distinguished Lectures Association Meetings GSA 2014 SEG 2012 GSA 2012 2011 Meetings DGS Vehicle Reservation Calendar Submit an Event Skip to main content Close Search Bar Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies SearchMake a Gift About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Units Offices Contacts Diversity and Inclusion JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Graduate Advising Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services People JSG Directory Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Employment Opportunities Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Office Blogs In the News Newsletter Media Contacts Events Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Association Meetings Summits JSG Graduation Menu Home About Offices Business Services Office Business Services Office The Business Services Office is here to support your teaching and research efforts. Please contact us by submitting all your requests to email geobus@jsg.utexas.edu. We also encourage you to complete and submit the forms posted on our website with your requests. Our mission is to support and enable the mission of the Jackson School by providing reliable and compliant Fiscal Management, Reporting and Business Services. We are committed to delivering ongoing communication, providing readily available information regarding University Processes and Rules, creating processing efficiencies, and improving Financial reporting. The Business Services Office performs a wide variety of administrative functions in support of the Jackson School of Geoscience. Some of those functions include: Overseeing the Fiscal Management of the Jackson School of Geoscience Serving as a liaison between the Jackson School and The University of Texas at Austin Assisting departments/units with purchasing procedures Overseeing the process of recruitment, onboarding and retention in the Jackson School Ensuring faculty and staff understanding of University of Texas at Austin administrative procedures Monitoring compliance with the University of Texas at Austin and the Jackson School procedures Human Resources The Human Resources team partners with you for organizational and employee excellence. We support your personnel resource needs, new hires, onboarding, compliance with UT Austin HR processes, student employment, ongoing employment programs such as Annual Performance Evaluations, timekeeping, and payroll processing. We are also here to support separations of employment. Monica Reed is your Title IX Liaison at the Jackson School. New Employees Workday Current Employees International Faculty and Scholars (Visa) Student Employees Visitors External Resources University Human Resources Benefits HRSC Dispute Resolution Office Policy Office and University (Handbook of Operating Procedures (HOP)) Office for Inclusion and Equity (University Policies and Procedure Guides) Dispute and Resolutions Office University Ombuds Office Purchasing Our Purchasing team is very experienced on UT processes and they will be glad to assist you with all procurement of services and goods. UT Austin does not allow you to individually make purchases and be reimbursed. Additionally, you must have a Services Agreement or Purchase Order prior to securing the services or goods that you need. Following ordering, our team will also coordinate with you delivery of the goods purchased. If you pick-up your goods centrally, please make sure to scan the packing slip to our Purchasing team. If you need to place an order, send a complete purchase request form (one per vendor) to geobus@jsg.utexas.edu. Purchases over $5,000 and all computer orders will be processed by Julie Lake. Purchases $5,000 and under will be processed by Eddie Ibarra. Forms Purchase Request Form External Resources The University of Texas at Austin Handbook of Business Procedures, Purchasing Section Disallowed Purchases on ProCard ProCard Compliance Module Accounting The Accounting team provides day to day accountability for income and expenses. We work with you to process payments and we provide financial information to assist with business decisions. Official Occasion Expense Reimbursements Vendor payments Forms Expense Reimbursement Official Occasion Expense New Account Request External Resources Handbook of Business Procedures Training Resources Travel and Reimbursements for Travel The travel unit supports travelers to meet and process all pre-travel, travel, and post-travel UT Austin requirements. We assist with processes needed for individual travel, group travel, and field trip travel compliance. For individual travel: Pre-travel: A Request for Travel Authorizations (RTAs or VE5s) are required in order for faculty, staff and students to be reimbursed for travel expenses. They also ensure accountability for missed classes, work, and academic responsibilities. RTAs/VE5s should be processed before travel begins to provide liability and worker’s compensation insurance coverage for all travelers. Travel: All changes to pre-authorized travel must be reported and processed by our office to insure reimbursement of travel expenses. Post-travel: A reimbursement request should be submitted with all original receipts as soon as practical after travel, but no later than 60 days after travel. All reimbursements requested after 60 days will need to include a justification late submittal form. Reimbursements processed late may be considered taxable income, unlike reimbursements processed soon after the travel dates. For Group Travel: For Field Trips: Forms Request for Travel Authorization Request Professional Development Travel Expense Worksheet Student Medical Liability External Resources The University of Texas at Austin Handbook of Business Procedures, Travel Section Policy on International Travel to Restricted Regions Anthony Travel Reservation Request Request Travel Authorization to Restricted Regions How to Process Contact Us Mailing Address Business Services Office Jackson School of Geosciences University of Texas at Austin 2275 Speedway Stop C1160 Austin TX, 78712-1692 Office Phone: (512) 471-1692 Office Fax: (512) 471-0959 Email: geobus@jsg.utexas.edu For all purchase and delivery needs, please email geobus@jsg.utexas.edu to work with Julie Lake and Eddie Ibarra. Both of them have been working to understand ongoing COVID related procedures and delays. They will be glad to help you with any purchases or service procurement. Please do not make purchases on your own, as we may have trouble reimbursing you. International Travel continues to be restricted during this period, unless approved as an exception. Please email exception paperwork to request International Travel to dgs.chair@jsg.utexas.edu. If you are attending a virtual conference, you will need to submit a RTA. Additionally, all other travel is back to regular UT procedures, please make sure you have an approved RTA in place prior to your travel. About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History JSG Workplace Issues Mailing Address Jackson School of Geosciences 2305 Speedway Stop C1160 Austin, TX 78712-1692 Phone (512) 471-6048 Support JSG Departments & Units Department of Geological Sciences Bureau of Economic Geology Institute for Geophysics Administration & Offices College Leadership Career Services Business Services Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Office Helpful Links UT Austin UT Direct Emergency Information IT Help JSG Directory JSG Profiles Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed © 2022 Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader