Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES NEAR EASTERN LANGUAGES AND CIVILIZATION KYRGYZ Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 KYRGYZ 101 Elementary Kyrgyz (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Kyrgyz. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Kyrgyz language through the cultural contexts. First in a sequence of three. View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 101 KYRGYZ 102 Elementary Kyrgyz (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Kyrgyz. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Kyrgyz language through the cultural contexts. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: KYRGYZ 101. View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 102 KYRGYZ 103 Elementary Kyrgyz (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Kyrgyz. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Kyrgyz language through the cultural contexts. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: KYRGYZ 102. View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 103 KYRGYZ 105 Intensive Elementary Kyrgyz (15) Intensive study of grammar with oral and written drill of selected texts. View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 105 KYRGYZ 201 Intermediate Kyrgyz (5) VLPA Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Kyrgyz. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Kyrgyz. First in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: KYRGYZ 103. View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 201 KYRGYZ 202 Intermediate Kyrgyz (5) VLPA Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Kyrgyz. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Kyrgyz. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: KYRGYZ 201. View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 202 KYRGYZ 203 Intermediate Kyrgyz (5) VLPA Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Kyrgyz. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Kyrgyz. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: KYRGYZ 202. View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 203 KYRGYZ 490 Supervised Study (1-6, max. 18) Special work in literary texts for graduates and undergraduates. Prerequisite: either KYRGYZ 105 or TKIC 403. View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 490 KYRGYZ 496 Special Studies in Krygyz (3-5, max. 15) VLPA Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 496 KYRGYZ 499 Undergraduate Research (3-5, max. 15) For Turkic language and literature majors. View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 499 KYRGYZ 511 Elementary Kyrgyz (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Kyrgyz. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Kyrgyz language through the cultural contexts. First in a sequence of three. View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 511 KYRGYZ 512 Elementary Kyrgyz (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Kyrgyz. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Kyrgyz language through the cultural contexts. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: KYRGYZ 511. View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 512 KYRGYZ 513 Elementary Kyrgyz (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Kyrgyz. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Kyrgyz language through the cultural contexts. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: KYRGYZ 512. View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 513 KYRGYZ 521 Intermediate Kyrgyz (5) Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Kyrgyz. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Kyrgyz. First in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: KYRGYZ 513. View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 521 KYRGYZ 522 Intermediate Kyrgyz (5) Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Kyrgyz. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Kyrgyz. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: KYRGYZ 521. View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 522 KYRGYZ 523 Intermediate Kyrgyz (5) Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Kyrgyz. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Kyrgyz. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: KYRGYZ 523. View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 523 KYRGYZ 596 Special Studies in Kyrgyz (3-5, max. 15) Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 596 KYRGYZ 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: KYRGYZ 600 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022