Skip Nav Claflin University Menu Go to Search Search Search Our Site: Close Search About About Claflin Why Claflin History Location & Directions Offices & Services Leadership Sustainability at Claflin Employment Contact Us Directory Why Claflin? Find out why a Claflin education is more than a means to a degree. Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid How to Apply Plan a Visit Request Information Meet Your Admissions Counselor Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Accepted Students Parents Office of the Registrar Ready to Plan a Visit? The best way to get a feel for Claflin is to visit us. Academics & Research Academics & Research FAQ's (Coming to Claflin) Programs of Study Schools & Departments Online Center for Professional and Continuing Studies Faculty & Research Excellence in STEM Visionary Leadership Special Programs & Opportunities Academic Resources & Support Office of Global Education Experiential Learning Career Pathways Academic Calendar and Final Exam Schedule Visionary Leadership Claflin students work with the best leaders in their fields. Student Life Student Life Life on Campus Career Development Services & Support Clubs & Organizations Athletics Explore Student Life at Claflin You’ll find endless opportunities here to get involved. News & Events News & Events News Events Social Media The Panther Panther Alerts Panther Media @Claflin Weekly eNews Explore Events There is always something happening at Claflin! Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving Give Now Ways to Give FOCUS100 Scholarship Fund Honor Roll of Donors Outstanding Leaders Under 40 Call Center Alumni News & Events Claflin University International Alumni Association Institutional Advancement Message from the VP of Institutional Advancement Ways to Give Claflin is #1 in alumni giving among all HBCUs, thanks to you. Virtual Tour Parents Association COVID-19 Resource Center Parenting Transcript Request Contact Us Directory Athletics Tools & Resources MyClaflin Alumni Email Office 365 Moodle CUOnline Registration Calendar Help Desk Bookstore Library Dining Panther Alerts Close Menu Apply Plan a VisitRequest InfoVirtual Tour What is CU S.T.A.R.S.? Introducing the new Quality Enhancement Plan for 2022-2027 LEARN MORE Claflin University Earns Top Ranking With U.S. News and World Report Listed third among 10 HBCUs with the highest four-year graduation rates among first-time, full-time students Learn More Claflin Named a "Top 10" HBCU U.S. News and World Report ranked Claflin in the “Top 10” on its list of the nation’s Best Historically Black Colleges/Universities (HBCUs) for the 11th consecutive year. Learn More Claflin University Ranks Number 8 in 2021 College Choice Poll College Choice is a leading online authority in rankings Read More Claflin University's COVID-19 RESOURCE CENTER Up-to-date information and FAQs concerning COVID-19 preparedness Learn More Introducing the new PAW Mentoring Program You are invited to join the PAW Mentoring Program – the official networking platform for Claflin University alumni and students. Sign Up Now Leave a Lasting Legacy Give today. Learn More FOCUS100 Scholarship Fund The FOCUS100 Scholarship Fund provides a crucial financial bridge allowing students to fulfill the dream of graduating from Claflin University. Give Now Committed to Excellence in STEM We're breaking new ground in the sciences among HBCUs, as more students are choosing and excelling in STEM careers. Explore Academics & Research Make Your Mark On The World At Claflin, we help dreamers become visionaries by giving them the tools not just to imagine what’s possible, but to figure out how to get there. Learn About Claflin Apply Plan a Visit Request InformationTake A Virtual Tour There's Always Something Happening At Claflin In the Spotlight Jul 21, 2022 Text to Give Jul 22, 2022 Join Graduway Today! May 25, 2022 FOCUS100 Scholarship Fund Headlines May 31, 2022 Claflin University and London Metropolitan University Sign Memorandum of Understanding to Launch Historic Academic Partnership May 28, 2022 Nelson Finishes 11th at 2022 NCAA Division II Women's Outdoor Track & Field National Championship Meet May 20, 2022 Primary Talent Partners Provides $100,000 Scholarship to Claflin University May 20, 2022 Dunlap Named Claflin University Men's Basketball Head Coach Events Jun 10 Last day of classes for Summer Session I 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Jun 13 Final Examinations – Traditional Summer School Students only. 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Jun 17 Final grades due for Summer Session I. 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Jun 20 SUMMER SESSION II: JUNE 20 – JULY 22 7:30 AM - 5:00 PM Experience Claflin's Academic Excellence Undergraduate (?) Think globally, and gain world-class experience As a Claflin undergraduate, you will become part of a unique learning tradition that focuses on the whole person. Through small classes and hands-on experiences - and with the help of a close-knit and supportive community - you will gain confidence and develop skills that will bring out the visionary in you. Find Your Program Graduate (?) Discover the next step in your education As a Claflin graduate student, you'll join a cohort of visionary leaders who seek to excel in every aspect of life- academic, professional, spiritual. Challenge yourself to take your education to the next level by joining an inspiring community of learners in business, education and more. Find Your Program Professional Studies (?) Earn your Bachelor's Degree in as little as 18 months! Designed for working adults, the Center for Professional and Continuing Studies (CPCS) offers a wide range of degree programs and experiential learning opportunities to a broad and inclusive community of nontraditional students. Discover CPCS Online (?) A quality education-at your convenience When attending classes in a traditional classroom is not an option, an online education can offer you an alternative means of meeting your educational objectives. Claflin Online offers broad access to exemplary academic programs though undergraduate, graduate, continuing education and certificate program offerings in an online educational environment. Online Programs Claflin By the Numbers 2,200 (?) Claflin's all-time high enrollment of students (?) 43 (?) Claflin students, faculty and staff hail from 43 countries (?) 83 percent (?) Claflin faculty holding terminal degrees in their fields (?) 11 (?) Claflin Panther teams in the CIAA and the NCAA Division II (?) 37/4/7 (?) 37 undergraduate majors and 4 graduate degrees and 7 online degrees (?) 14:1 (?) Student to faculty ratio (?) Why Claflin is right for you Stay Connected Claflin University Virtual Tour Welcome to Claflin University, the oldest and first HBCU in South Carolina. We can't wait to open our doors to you to welcome you to our family! Follow Claflin @ClaflinUniv1869 Tweets by ClaflinUniv1869 Claflin Weekly Snapshots See More on Flickr Claflin Weekly eNews May 20, 2022 View All Issues Subscribe Primary Talent Partners Provides 100,000 Scholarship to Claflin University Dunlap Named Claflin University Men's Basketball Head Coach Employee News PAWS UP Golf Classic Panther Pride - Athletics Headlines Support the next generation of Claflin Leaders Your support provides educational enrichment through student scholarships, loan funds, instructional classroom equipment, preparing Claflin's students to be leaders of the future. Give to Claflin Contact Us 400 Magnolia Street Orangeburg, SC 29115 1.800.922.1276 Information For Accepted Students Parents Employment Media Who to Contact Location & DirectionsCampus Map © 2017 Claflin University Title IX Website Accessibility Section 1557 Non-Discrimination Notice Accreditation Vision, Mission and Guiding Principles Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Recognition Stay Connected Flickr Instagram Twitter Facebook YouTube