Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel Online Resources Outside Scholarship Opportunities For those interested in scholarship opportunities above and beyond Tuck's scholarship program, we recommend that you begin your research as early as possible. State and local governments may also be sources of scholarship, grant, and/or loan information. Many employers, banks, and government ministries of education may offer assistance in the form of grants or loans. Try contacting your state department of education for details. We also suggest approaching your local fraternal organizations. We encourage international students to investigate funding sources in their home country. Please note that some organizations—including the Fulbright Commission, COLFUTURO, the United Nations, and the Organization for American States (OAS)—offer scholarships to foster the professional development of international students. For reference, additional resources for outside scholarships have been compiled in the guide below. Outside Scholarship Guide Other Financial Aid Resources Check Your Credit Annual Credit Report Equifax Experian TransUnion Loan Calculators Bank Rate FinAid Mapping Your Future The NHHEAF Network Tools and Information Federal Student Aid The College Board EduPass FastWeb FinAid Graduate Management Admissions Council Federal Borrowing Resources Department of Education Federal Student Aid The National Student Loan Data System (“NSLDS”) Vocabulary Cost of Attendance (COA): The total amount it will cost you to go to school per academic year, based on a nine-month budget. COA includes tuition and fees; room and board (or a housing and food allowance); and allowances for books, supplies, transportation, loan fees, and living expenses. Expected Family Contribution (EFC): This is the number that’s used to determine your eligibility for federal student financial aid. This number results from the financial information you provide in your FAFSA® form, the application for federal student aid. Your EFC is reported to you on your Student Aid Report (SAR). Federal Loans: A loan funded by the federal government to help pay for your education. A federal student loan is borrowed money you must repay with interest. Financial Need: The difference between the cost of attendance (COA) at a school and your Expected Family Contribution (EFC). While COA varies from school to school, your EFC does not change based on the school you attend. Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA): A financial aid application form you will need to complete in order to apply for federal and state student loans. Institutional Loans: Loans obtained through the school that must be repaid. Origination Fee: Fee paid to the lender to compensate them for the cost of administering the loan. Federal loans take out the origination fees as the loan is disbursed. A portion of this fee is paid to federal government to offset the administrative costs of the loan. Some private lenders also have origination fees and may take it out as the loan is disbursed or add it to the principal balance owed at repayment. Private Education Loans: A nonfederal loan made by a lender such as a bank, credit union, state agency, or school that must be repaid. Certified by the school. Scholarships/Fellowships: Money awarded to students based on academic or other achievements to help pay for education expenses. Scholarships generally do not have to be repaid. Visit www.studentaid.gov for a comprehensive vocabulary list of terms. Apply Now Connect With Us Take a 360° Tour of Campus Helpful Links Application Materials Additional Info for Applicants Financing Your Degree Admissions FAQ Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Tuck Ambassadors Tuck on Social Tuck 360: MBA Blog Tuck’s 2022-2023 Essay Questions Tuition and Costs Scholarships and Fellowships Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Loan Programs Applying to Tuck Finance Your Degree Home Admissions Home 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy