Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF THE ENVIRONMENT SCHOOL OF ENVIRONMENTAL & FOREST SCIENCE BIORESOURCE SCIENCE & ENGINEERING Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 BSE 101 Biomass, Biofuels and Bioproducts (5) I&S/NW Renata Bura Provides an introduction to the science and technology of Biofuels, Bioproducts, and Renewable Energy. In particular, the generation and properties of biofuels and specialty products from lignocellulosic sources will be emphasized. Part of this class will concentrate on the social aspects of biomass to biofuels conversion. Prerequisite: None; recommended: high school chemistry and physics, ideally some exposure to organic chemistry. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 101 BSE 150 Bioresource Science and Engineering Seminar (1) Rick Gustafson Introduces the science and technology of bioresources, including paper. Faculty, advisers, and guest lectures present on topics throughout the quarter. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 150 BSE 190 Special Topics (1-5, max. 10) NW R. BURA Introduces current topics or courses under development to address the latest issues in bioresource science and engineering. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 190 BSE 201 Introduction to Pulp, Paper, and Bioproducts (3) NW Broad overview of the science and technology of producing pulp and paper. Introduction of the BSE major course sequence and various career options. Examination of Pacific Northwest pulp and paper production facilities. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 201 BSE 202 Pulp and Paper Lab and Field Studies (1) NW Laboratory and field trip studies in pulp and paper technology. Visits to local forest product manufacturing facilities. Required for BSE majors. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 202 BSE 210 Concepts in Bioproducts Sustainability (4) NW Heidi Lois Gough Principles from chemistry, mathematics, physics and material flows are applied to understand processes from feedstock through end-use and re-use of bioproducts. Bioproducts covered are those derived from cellulosic plant materials, including paper products, biochemical, biofuels, and bioplastics. First concepts in engineering analysis are introduced, including introduction to engineering design. Recommended: high school chemistry, physics, and algebra. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 210 BSE 211 Creativity and Society (5) VLPA/I&S G. ALLAN Explores the nature of creativity and innovation in U.S. and other societies. Investigates the processes of thinking and techniques of idea generation in fields such as art, music, science, engineering and medicine. Offered: AWS. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 211 BSE 231 Technical Communication for Process Engineers (3) NW Introduces technical communication skills for process engineers. Topics covered include general communication, technical writing, oral presentations and engineering ethics. Students work individually and in teams to complete oral and written assignments based on modern, industrially relevant bioresource and process engineering problems. Prerequisite: Either C LIT 240, both ENGl 109 and ENGL 110, ENGL 111, ENGL 121, ENGL 131, ENGL 182, ENGL 197, ENGL 198, ENGL 199, or ENGL 281. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 231 BSE 248 Paper Properties (4) NW Acquaints students with raw material characteristics, physical and mechanical concepts, nomenclature, and procedures related to evaluating paper and paperboard product properties. Emphasizes structural, optical, mechanical, and moisture related properties. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 248 BSE 309 Creativity and Innovation (2) VLPA G. ALLAN Understanding creativity and creative thinking; its challenges and dynamics through knowledge, judgment, planning, and observation. Techniques of creative thinking. Design and development of creative games. Computer-aided creative thinking. Creation, protection, and exploitation of a useful idea, including bargaining and negotiations. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 309; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 309 BSE 391 Engineering Principles of Biorefineries (5) NW Introduction to biofinery processes, including material and energy balances; sustainability aspects and environmental issues; and process modeling. Application of conservation laws to calculation of flow rates, chemical composition, and heat requirements of non-reactive and reactive systems typical of processes involving lignocellulosic biomass. Prerequisite: A A 260; either CHEM 223 or CHEM 237; and MATH 207. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 391 BSE 392 Bioresource Transport Phenomena (5) NW F. PACHECO DE RESENDE Focuses on transport phenomena involved in the biofinery processes, including: momentum, heat, and mass transfer; paper drying, transport in biochemical and thermochemical processes, and product separation; and computational tools. Application of conservation laws to calculations of flow rates, chemical composition, and heat requirements involving lignocellulosic biomass. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in BSE 391. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 392 BSE 399 Undergraduate Internship (1-5, max. 15) Internship experience with a public agency or private company, supervised and approved by a faculty member. Preparation of professional report reflecting on the experience is required. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 399 BSE 406 Natural Products Chemistry (5) NW R. BURA Provides knowledge of chemistry of aqueous and solvent-rich systems, natural and synthetic polymers, and of interactions with inorganic materials and trace substances present in biomass processing systems. Covers the chemistry of lignocellulosic biomass components: cellulose, hemicellulose, lignin, and extractives. Presents the fundamental chemistry of biomass conversion process. Prerequisite: either CHEM 223, CHEM 237, or CHEM 335. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 406 BSE 410 Industrial Wastewater Treatment and Reduction (4) Heidi Lois Gough Applications of mathematics, statistics and chemistry for the engineering design of pollution control for high-strength industrial wastewater, with focus on the pulp, paper and biorefineries industries. Includes design of treatment reactors, settling chambers, sorption operations, and approaches for wastewater reduction. Prerequisite: BSE 201; either BSE 391, CHEM E 310, CEE 350, or CEE 357; and either MATH 207 or AMATH 351; recommended: courses in physics; organic chemistry; differential equations; statistics; and engineering fundamentals Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 410 BSE 420 Bioresource Engineering I (4) R. BURA Covers chemistry and reaction kinetics of conversion of biomass into molecules and fibers for use in making fuels and high value products. Includes chemical, biological, and thermal conversion of biomass. Develops applications of reaction kinetics to design reactor configurations. Prerequisite: BSE 406. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 420 BSE 421 Bioresource Engineering II (4) R. Gustafson Introduces basic mass transfer processes and physical basis: diffusion, convection, and mass transfer coefficients. Analyzes separation processes used in forest products and bioresources industries: membrane separations, flow through porous media, leaching and extraction, and evaporation. Includes industrial processes: dialysis, reverse osmosis, fiber web formation, pulp washing, and black liquor evaporation. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in both BSE 392 and BSE 420. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 421 BSE 422 Bioresource Engineering III (4) R. GUSTAFSON Introduces process simulators and their application to model unit operations and large scale integrated facilities such as biorefineries and pulp and paper mills. Covers applications to optimize processes for production and environmental impact, basic control equipment, process models used in control, types of controllers, and simple controller tuning. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in BSE 421. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 422 BSE 426 Bioresource Laboratory (4) R. BURA Covers bioconversion laboratory techniques, focusing on design and operation of conversion processes to produce high value biorenewable products based on chemistry of biomass. Products include ethanol, pulp, glycols, and sugar streams. Includes significant product design component, and hands-on laboratory creation of products based on design. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in BSE 420; Q SCI 381 or STAT 311 which may be taken concurrently. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 426 BSE 430 Papermaking Processes (5) Examines stock preparation operations (refining, screening, and cleaning) for papermaking and sheet forming as a unit of operations. Considers related unit operations of fluid dynamics and heat transfer as they apply to the commercial process. Covers sheet finishing operations of surface sizing, calendaring, and rewinding. Analyzes physics of fiber webs. Prerequisite: either BSE 392 or CHEM E 340. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 430 BSE 436 Pulp and Paper Laboratory II (4) Paper testing, paper additives, flocculation, drainage, retention, heat transfer, and fluid dynamics in papermaking from virgin and recycled raw materials. Prerequisite: BSE 430. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 436 BSE 480 Bioresource Design I (4) I&S/NW R. GUSTAFSON Design and production of biomass derived products meeting given specifications and financial constraints, integrating coursework knowledge to solve complex, open-ended design problems. Specific considerations in design include: economic, marketability, environmental, sustainability, ethical, health and safety, social, and political. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in BSE 406; 2.0 in BSE 420; 2.0 in BSE 430. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 480 BSE 481 Bioresource Design II (5) I&S/NW R. GUSTAFSON Comprehensive design of pulp and paper processes, including: economic feasibility studies; process equipment design, optimization, and control; and overall process integration and layout. Safety and ethics in the design process. Prerequisite: BSE 480. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 481 BSE 489 Foreign Study (1-5, max. 15) Individual foreign study of topics for which there is not sufficient demand to warrant the organization of regular classes. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 489 BSE 490 Special Topics (1-5, max. 15) Individual tutorial study of topics or courses under development to address the latest scientific developments in forest resources. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 490 BSE 497 Pulp and Paper Internship (1, max. 3) Technical and economic analysis of commercial pulp and paper installations. Structured visits to industrial operations to observe technical aspects of pulp and paper curriculum in practice. Preparation of visitation reports and analysis in seminar setting. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 497 BSE 499 Undergraduate Research (1-5, max. 15) Individual research supervised by a faculty member. For advanced students desiring to extend their educational experience. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: BSE 499 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022