Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Nursing RN (BSN) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Nursing Department(s) Nursing Systems In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The BSN program prepares graduates who will be able to: Integrate concepts from liberal education with nursing curriculum to enhance critical thinking and implementation of quality care. Integrate principles of leadership and management through intra- and inter- disciplinary collaborations to address client needs and outcomes. Foster scholarship in nursing practice through identification of emerging health care problems, appraising current evidence, and its potential for application to improve outcomes. Demonstrate effective professional communication as part of an interdisciplinary team, collaborating to provide for optimal health outcomes. Analyze the health care policy process for the improvement of health care for all. Demonstrate competence in the management of information and the application of technology to deliver quality care. Develop health promotion and disease prevention interventions at the individual and population level to improve health. Actualize professional values such as altruism, autonomy, integrity, social justice, and respect for human dignity. Provide the highest quality of nursing care across the lifespan and continuum of healthcare environments. For individuals who are not Registered Nurses. The College of Nursing has a demanding curriculum. The classes are work-intensive and courses include clinical practice in a variety of settings. Due to this, it is strongly recommended that students be at least one-year post-high school prior to applying to the basic nursing program. Students with concerns or questions should contact the College of Nursing Undergraduate Student Services Office for an appointment with an academic advisor. The program is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) and approved by the Florida State Board of Nursing. The Nursing (B.S.N.) program will meet the educational eligibility criteria for the National Council for Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN) for obtaining a license to practice as a registered nurse in Florida. Out-of-state instructional limitations apply to this degree program. For more information on this and how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-Nursing-BSN.pdf View Full Description Program Tracks/Options Concurrent ASN to BSN - Valencia College Track RN-BSN Concurrent ASN to BSN - Seminole State Track AS to BS Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Advanced Nursing Professor CCU Nurse CNS Clinical Nurse Specialist Clinical Nursing Instructor Clinical Nursing Professor Community Health Nurse Coronary Care Unit Nurse Emergency Room RN Endoscopy Registered Nurse Hospice Registered Nurse Obstetrical Nurse Oncology Registered Nurse Pediatric Registered Nurse Post-Anesthesia Care Unit Nurse Psychiatric Nurse RN Registered Nurse Registered Nursing Professor Triage Registered Nurse Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Nursing programs Bachelors Nursing RN (BSN) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The BSN program prepares graduates who will be able to: Integrate concepts from liberal education with nursing curriculum to enhance critical thinking and implementation of quality care. Integrate principles of leadership and management through intra- and inter- disciplinary collaborations to address client needs and outcomes. Foster scholarship in nursing practice through identification of emerging health care problems, appraising current evidence, and its potential for application to improve outcomes. Demonstrate effective professional communication as part of an interdisciplinary team, collaborating to provide for optimal health outcomes. Analyze the health care policy process for the improvement of health care for all. Demonstrate competence in the management of information and the application of technology to deliver quality care. Develop health promotion and disease prevention interventions at the individual and population level to improve health. Actualize professional values such as altruism, autonomy, integrity, social justice, and respect for human dignity. Provide the highest quality of nursing care across the lifespan and continuum of healthcare environments. For individuals who are not Registered Nurses. The College of Nursing has a demanding curriculum. The classes are work-intensive and courses include clinical practice in a variety of settings. Due to this, it is strongly recommended that students be at least one-year post-high school prior to applying to the basic nursing program. Students with concerns or questions should contact the College of Nursing Undergraduate Student Services Office for an appointment with an academic advisor. The program is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) and approved by the Florida State Board of Nursing. The Nursing (B.S.N.) program will meet the educational eligibility criteria for the National Council for Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN) for obtaining a license to practice as a registered nurse in Florida. Out-of-state instructional limitations apply to this degree program. For more information on this and how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-Nursing-BSN.pdf Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced 62 Total Credits Complete the following: NUR3065 - Health Assessment (2) NUR3065L - Health Assessment Lab (1) NUR3028 - Essentials of Nursing Practice (3) NUR3028L - Essentials of Nursing Practice Lab (1) NUR3755L - Essentials of Nursing Practice Clinical (2) NUR3616 - Health Promotion Across the Lifespan (2) NUR3616L - Health Promotion Across the Lifespan Clinical (1) NUR3125 - Pathophysiology for Nursing Practice (3) NUR3145 - Pharmacology for Nursing Practice (3) NUR3225 - Nursing Care of the Adult I (3) NUR3225L - Nursing Care of the Adult I: Clinical Practice: (2) NUR3816 - Professional Nurse Seminar (1) NUR3445 - Nursing Care of Families (4) NUR3445L - Nursing Care of Families Clinical (2) NUR3165 - Nursing Research (3) NUR4837 - Health Care Issues, Policy, and Economics (3) NUR4227 - Nursing Care of the Adult II (4) NUR4227L - Nursing Care of the Adult II: Clinical Practice (3) NUR4535 - Psychiatric Mental Health Nursing (3) NUR4535L - Psychiatric Mental Health Clinical (2) NUR4257 - Introduction to Critical Care Nursing (3) NUR4945L - Nursing Practicum (4) NUR4828 - Nursing Leadership, Management and Role Transition (3) NUR4637 - Public and Community Health Nursing (3) NUR4637L - Public Health Nursing Clinical (1) Restricted Electives 3 Total Credits Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: One College of Nursing elective. A list of approved restricted elective courses is found in the myKnight audit. Grand Total Credits: 65 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida