Skip to site alert. Skip to content Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research Newsletter News Events Videos People Search About Us About Us Resources and Cores Message from the Director History Initiatives and Committees News Events Videos Contact Cite the Grant Subscribe to our Mailing List Initiatives and Committees Implementation Science COVID-19 Research Initiative Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee Opioid Crisis Response Learning Health System Initiative Services and Programs Our Impact Our Impact A Model for Collaboration Testimonials Publications People Impact Stories Narratives of Discovery People Irving Scholars Mentor of the Year Award Pilot Awardees Scholars, Trainees, and Fellows Join a Study Join a Study What is Health Research? Research Registries and Studies Community Health Resources You are here Home > About Us > Videos Resources and Cores Message from the Director History Initiatives and Committees News Events Videos Contact Cite the Grant Subscribe to our Mailing List Educational Videos See the full library on our YouTube channel A primary goal of the Irving Institute is to train and educate a diverse workforce to facilitate agents of change as they translate basic science findings into the improved health care for people over their lifespan. As one of over 50 CTSA hubs working nationally for the same purpose, we utilize our YouTube channel to share research, lectures, and innovations. The highlighted video below is part of series of rap videos launched today by Hip Hop Public Health, a community outreach organization founded by Columbia neurologist and Irving Institute faculty Olajide Williams, MD, aims to increase COVID-19 vaccine coverage in communities of color. community_immunity_part_1_-_what_are_vaccines_and_why_do_they_work Implementation Science Seminar Series on Health and Equity implementation_science_series_on_health_and_equity Provided by the Irving Institute Implementation Science Initiative in partnership with the New York State Psychiatric Institute. These monthly seminars will be held from September 2020 through June 2021, and will feature national experts who lead research focused on health equity, racial justice, and implementation science. As a rapidly growing field, implementation science has developed over the past ten years in response to the well-documented gap between research and practice that exists in real-world community and clinical contexts. This series will focus on the research needed to help advance understanding of how to enhance the uptake, reach, implementation, and impact of evidence-based interventions and practices for populations and settings experiencing health inequities. Precision Medicine Lecture Series precision_medicine_lecture_series Provided by the Precision Medicine Resource (PMR) PMR seeks to facilitate improved diagnosis and treatment of disease, and ultimately improved maintenance of health through more accurate prediction of disease risk. Precision Medicine offers the opportunity to increase the effectiveness of health care at reduced cost with improved outcomes, decreased adverse effects, and greater patient satisfaction. Biostatistics for Clinical Researchers insights_from_a_statistical_reviewer Provided by the Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Research Design (BERD) "Biostatistics in Action: Tips for Clinical Researchers" lecture series is geared towards clinical researchers who are interested in gaining insight into fundamental design and statistical concepts with a focus on practical knowledge. BERD provides a wide range of research design, statistical, analytical, and database management support services. Implementation Science Lecture Series dr._russ_glasgow_describing_the_re-aim_framework Provided by the Implementation Science Initiative This video library provides education and training for researchers and practitioners interested in advancing understanding of how to enhance the uptake, reach, implementation, and impact of scientific discoveries. Dissemination and implementation (D&I) research promotes the adoption and integration of proven treatments, programs, and policies into routine use in diverse real-world settings and populations and translates new public health and healthcare knowledge and research for practitioners, healthcare providers, patients, and the general public. A total of 23 brief videos are available that provide an introduction to key foundations in D&I science. Columbia Community Partnership for Health Lectures do_you_have_joint_pain_tiene_dolor_en_las_articulaciones Provided by the Columbia Community Partnership for Health (CCPH) CCPH offers a bilingual health talk series for the public. This Irving Institute resource offers a unique and inviting, multipurpose space for conducting health research, health promotion activities, and research education and dissemination. CCPH also connects residents of upper Manhattan to health and social services, operates a bilingual health library, and facilitates access to health research. Partners in_the_news Provided in partnership with the Irving Institute The Irving Institute’s mission is to accelerate discoveries, knowledge, and innovation to improve human health across the lifespan for diverse populations in upper Manhattan and around the world. To achieve our mission we collaborate and partner with a diverse range of groups and institutions to help empower our community; these videos show the wide range of outreach that we are involved in. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Services and Programs Our Impact Join a Study Contact Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Back to top