Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Information Technology Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Resources For I Want To Services Security and Privacy About Students Alumni Faculty Retirees Researchers Visitors Staff Access My Email Log in to LionMail Log in to ADCU Outlook Web App Log in to CUIMC Email Check CUIT Service Alerts Connect to Columbia WiFi Contact the CUIT Service Desk Download Software Log in to CourseWorks Manage My University ID (UNI) Activate My UNI or Email Change My Password Manage My Duo MFA Account Print on Campus Use Zoom View Computer and System Recommendations Visit the ServiceNow Customer Portal Academic Systems Accounts and Access Administrative Systems Cloud Services Computer Lab and Classroom Technologies Email and Calendar Endpoint Device Technologies IT Professional Services Network and Wireless Research Services Security and Risk Management Servers, Backup and Storage Service Desk Software and Apps Telephony and Communications Services Web Services Anti-malware CUIT Security Downloads Data Security Guidelines for International Travel Get Started with Computer Security at Columbia General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Handling Personally Identifying Information Keep Your Operating System Up To Date Phishing: Recognize and Report Secure Resources for Systems Administrators Using Strong Passwords Staff Directory and Org. Chart Senior Leadership Departments Locations IT Policies and Strategies IT Partners at the University Careers Columbia University Information Technology You are here: Home Security and Privacy Keep Your Operating System Up To Date Keep Your Operating System Up To Date Operating systems, like Windows and macOS (formerly Mac OS X), are made up of countless parts with different functions, ideally working in harmony. It's inevitable that some of these parts will be less than perfect. But when a problem leaves a hole in your machine's defenses, it is extremely important to patch it as soon as possible. This is best accomplished by using built-in update features through the Windows Update Page in the Windows Control Panel for Windows PCs, and the Software Update feature, on macOS and OS X systems. Your machine may need to be restarted after you update. Expand all Collapse all Keeping your computer's security up to date Keeping Windows up to date Click on the Windows Start Menu and select or type 'Control Panel'. Select or type 'Windows Update". Select 'Check for Updates'. Install all recommended updates. Keeping your Mac up to date Click on the Apple menu icon on the top left hand corner of your screen. Select 'App Store'. Click on Updates in the top Menu Bar of the application. Click 'Update All' to install all the application and operating system updates. Keeping third-party applications up to date Most savvy computer users are aware of the need to keep their operating system, Windows or macOS, up to date. Despite applying all critical updates in Windows Update or Software Updates, many of these users place their system security and stability at risk by neglecting to apply the same measure of caution to third-party applications like Mozilla Firefox or Adobe Acrobat. It is very important that you check all of the programs that you use for built-in updating options. It's also a good idea to make sure that you have the most recent version of the software as long as it can run on your machine. Checking the vendor's website is typically the best first step. It can be difficult to manage updates for all of the applications we use online. Flexera PSI is a free security tool designed to detect vulnerable and outdated programs and plug-ins which expose your computer to attacks. You can download PSI from Flexera's website. Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Administrative OfficesStudebaker Building, 5th & 6th Floors, 615 West 131st Street · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Walk-in Center202 Philosophy Hall, 1150 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-1919 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close