Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About Overview Leadership What is population health? Hans Rosling Center Evaluation Contact us Strategic areas Interdisciplinary collaboration Climate change and its human impacts Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief Violence and injury prevention Social innovation and entrepreneurship COVID-19 COVID-19 Education Undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian Response Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Disaster and humanitarian experts Other experts Mobile and digital population health Social innovation and entrepreneurship Funding and awards News Latest news and updates Subscribe Journal articles Media coverage Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events Population Health Menu Home About Overview Leadership What is population health? Hans Rosling Center Evaluation Contact us Strategic areas Interdisciplinary collaboration Climate change and its human impacts Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief Violence and injury prevention Social innovation and entrepreneurship COVID-19 COVID-19 Education Undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian Response Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Disaster and humanitarian experts Other experts Mobile and digital population health Social innovation and entrepreneurship Funding and awards News Latest news and updates Subscribe Journal articles Media coverage Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events Home Population Health Education and training Other education and training Other education and training Close Menu Home Education and training Undergraduate courses Bothell undergraduate courses Seattle undergraduate courses Tacoma undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Archived Let’s Talk Pop Health events Graduate Certificate in International Humanitarian Response Certificate overview Learning objectives Required coursework Admissions process Submit an application Contact us Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training The Population Health Initiative cross-promotes a number of other education and training opportunities for undergraduate students, graduate students, professional students and faculty. Internships (students and faculty) A number of campus units support population health-related internships, including: The Career & Internship Center supports the internship and professional development goals and needs of students. It also offers support to faculty and advisors to deliver career content to students, classes, departments, and programs. The Community Engagement & Leadership Education Center offers paid Undergraduate Community Based Internships that partner students with non-profit and public sector organizations. The Community Engagement & Leadership Education Center also offers several fellowship opportunities. UW Bothell UW Bothell Career Services tracks internship opportunities for students. UW Tacoma The UW Tacoma Office of Global Affairs tracks student fellowship opportunities. The UW Tacoma School of Interdisciplinary Arts and Sciences offers internship opportunities for its students. Research opportunities (undergraduate students) A number of campus units offer students exposure to population health-related research opportunities, including: The Undergraduate Research Program’s EXPO database details research opportunities that are available to students. The Undergraduate Research Program also offers immersive summer research experiences. Fellowships and training (graduate students) Graduate School fellowships The UW Graduate School maintains a listing of a variety of funding opportunities for graduate students. This listing includes opportunities administered by the Graduate School as well as opportunities external to the UW. Graduate Funding Information Service The Graduate Funding Information Service works with both currently enrolled and newly admitted University of Washington graduate students, helping them identify and locate funding opportunities for graduate education-related expenses, including tuition, research and travel. Commercialization fellowship The UW Institute of Translational Health Sciences offers a summer-long commercialization fellowship for graduate students with entrepreneurial backgrounds who are interested in building a commercialization plan for a promising technology. Fellows are paired with an early-stage technology, working with the inventors, as well as mentors, to evaluate if the technology presents a start-up or licensing opportunity. The fellowship awards five students with $10,000 stipends each and is managed by the UW Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship. TL1 Translational Research Training Program The UW Institute of Translational Health Sciences’ TL1 program is a one-year mentored research training program in translational science for pre-doctoral students. This program creates a cross-disciplinary community of emerging researchers and provides them with funding, specific training, career development opportunities and team science skills to help them function effectively within translational science teams. Career development programs (faculty and postdoctoral) Future Faculty Fellows Program The UW School of Medicine offers a Future Faculty Fellows Program that aims to prepare postdoctoral scientists for successful careers that combine research, service, mentoring and teaching. The program consists of two components: a workshop on career development, and a teaching apprenticeship program that provides a faculty-mentor experience in designing and teaching an undergraduate course. The program is free and relevant to individuals in any area of basic or applied bioscience, or engineering in any biological, biomedical or biochemical field. KL2 Multidisciplinary Clinical Research Career Development Program The UW Institute of Translational Health Sciences’ KL2 program provides the time, funding, mentorship and training necessary to foster the early career development of clinical and translational researchers (i.e., postdoctoral or early career faculty level). KL2 scholars are appointed for up to three years of support. The program encourages all types of clinical research, including patient-oriented research, translational research, small- and large-scale clinical investigation and trials, epidemiologic and natural history studies, health services research and health behavior research. Pathways (medical students) A number of training programs and pathways exist for medical students, including: The Community Health Advancement Program nurtures the ideas and goals of health care students interested in working with medically underserved populations. The Community-focused Urban Scholars Program seeks to diversify the School of Medicine’s student population and address WWAMI’s urban underserved physician workforce shortage through pipeline development and community-based medical school training. The Rural Underserved Opportunities Program is a four-week, elective immersion experience in community medicine. The Targeted Rural Underserved Track provides a continuous connection between underserved communities, medical education, and health professionals in the WWAMI region. The Global Health Pathway is designed for medical students interested in careers dedicated to improving global health disparities. The Latinx Health Pathway prepares students to provide culturally responsive care for the Latinx population. The Indian Health Pathway provides a path for Native medical students to stay connected to their community while enhancing opportunities for Native and non-Native students to learn how to integrate their American Indian/Alaska Native patients’ cultural, spiritual and traditional needs into the health care relationship. The Underserved Pathway helps prepare future physicians to care for vulnerable and underserved populations. Other support Additional resources available to support population health-related education and training include: The Global Health Resource Center is the University’s hub for global health-related activities. Jumpstart is an early education program that connects students with preschool-aged children from underserved communities in Seattle to lead literacy and science-based activities. Home Education and training Undergraduate courses Bothell undergraduate courses Seattle undergraduate courses Tacoma undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Archived Let’s Talk Pop Health events Graduate Certificate in International Humanitarian Response Certificate overview Learning objectives Required coursework Admissions process Submit an application Contact us Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training What is population health? Population health is a broad concept encompassing not only the elimination of diseases and injuries, but also the intersecting and overlapping factors that influence health. Learn more Population Health Twitter Tweets by UW_PHI Please enable JavaScript to view this widget. Events calendar University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA