Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Meduza: Genocide in Ukraine Visiting Scholar at the UC College of Law defines genocide By Cedric Ricks Email CedricEmail Cedric 260-415-8554 May 31, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like Meduza is an international publication released in Russian and English language and based in Riga, Latvia. The publication includes news and feature stories from across the former Soviet Union. It features the English-language podcast, ‘The Naked Pravda.’ The Naked Pravda invites guests to discuss genocide in Ukraine following the Russian invasion as part of an hour-long podcast. Erin Farrell Rosenberg, a Visiting Scholar with the Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights at the University of Cincinnati College of Law, was one of four panelists discussing genocide and how it’s understood both legally and in terms of history and politics. Listen to the podcast from Meduza online. (Erin Farrell Rosenberg is the first speaker and starts at 4:45 minutes.) Learn more about the work of Erin Farrell Rosenberg online. Featured image of a protest in London, UK, against Russia's invasion of Ukraine is courtesy of Unsplash. Tags In The News College of Law Related Stories Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Imaging Technology News: First FLASH proton therapy trial... May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's John Breneman, MD, spoke with Imaging Technology News about the completion of enrollment of the FAST-01 trial, the first FLASH proton therapy trial completed in humans. KNX In Depth: Twitter cracks down on misinformation May 27, 2022 Social media expert Jeffrey Blevins featured guest on live radio show, KNX InDepth. The topic is Twitter and information regulation. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top