Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Department of Aerospace Studies About Us Forward Arrow About Us Det 770 Cadre Great Clemson Graduates Air Force History "Flyin' Tigers" Mission Awards Privacy Disclaimer Back Arrow Back Prospective Cadets Forward Arrow Prospective Cadets FAQ Back Arrow Back Orientation Alumni Contact Us Forward Arrow Contact Us Contact an Admissions Advisor Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Department of Aerospace Studies Prospective Cadets About Us show submenu for About Us Det 770 Cadre Great Clemson Graduates Air Force History "Flyin' Tigers" Mission Awards Privacy Disclaimer Prospective Cadets show submenu for Prospective Cadets FAQ Orientation Alumni Contact Us show submenu for Contact Us Contact an Admissions Advisor Clemson Home Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Departments Department of Aerospace Studies Current: Prospective Cadets Prospective Cadets What is Air Force ROTC? Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps is a college program offered at more than 1,000 colleges and universities across the U.S. that prepares you to become an officer that is prepared to enter the Department of the Air Force. The Department of the Air Force is comprised of the United States Air Force (USAF) and the United States Space Force (USSF). Clemson AFROTC provides you with a challenging program to hone your time management, physical fitness and analytical skills – and helps you push yourself to achieve your goals. Through academic and practical skills training, you will be molded into an officer who is ready to enter the Air Force or Space Force. The academic class is available to any student who attends Clemson or cross-town schools. Students can take the freshman and sophomore classes free of obligation if they are unsure as to whether or not they wish to commit to the Air Force or Space Force. Students can pick any major the University has to offer. Students who complete our upper-level classes earn a minor in Aerospace Studies. Upon graduation, students will enter active duty (four-year commitment) as a commission officer, 2nd Lieutenant, in the Department of the Air Force. For those who are up to the challenge, the rewards last a lifetime. Program Plans Three-Year Program Overview The Air Force ROTC two-year program is not typically offered at Clemson University. Highly qualified applicants should contact the Recruiting Flight Commander to discuss this option. The three-year program is usually the quickest way to complete AFROTC at Clemson. It consists of the freshman and sophomore classes being taken at the same time. It essentially accelerates the first two years of the program and completes them in a single year. The last two years are the same as listed below in the Professional Officer Course section of the Four-Year Program Overview. Four-Year Program Overview General Military Course The first two years of the Air Force ROTC four-year program, the General Military Course, consists of one hour of classroom work, two hours of physical training and two hours of Leadership Laboratory each week. These five hours are the only weekly mandatory requirements for freshmen and sophomore cadets. The General Military Course is an opportunity for students not on an Air Force ROTC scholarship to try out the program with no obligation. After completing General Military Course requirements, if you wish to compete for entry into the last two years of the program, the Professional Officer Course (POC — ROTC course for juniors and seniors), you must do so under the requirements of the Professional Officer Course selection system. This system uses qualitative factors, such as grade point average, unit commander evaluation, physical fitness test scores and aptitude test scores to determine if you have officer potential. After selection, you must successfully complete a four-week Field Training encampment during the summer to enter the Professional Officer Course. Once enrolled in the Professional Officer Course, you must attend class two and a half hours a week, participate in two hours of physical training and two hours of Leadership Laboratory each week. Professional Officer Course In the Professional Officer Course, you apply what you have learned in the General Military Course and at Field Training. As a Professional Officer Course cadet, you actually conduct the Leadership Laboratories and manage the unit's cadet corps. Each unit has a cadet corps based on the Air Force organizational pattern of flight, squadron, group and wing. Professional Officer Course classes are small. Emphasis is placed on group discussions and cadet presentations. Classroom topics include management, communication skills and national defense policy. Once enrolled in the Professional Officer Course, you are enlisted in the Air Force Reserve and assigned to the Obligated Reserve Section. This entitles you to a monthly $300-$500 nontaxable subsistence allowance during the academic year. Program Requirements Physical Training (PT) Physical training sessions are conducted three times a week. Cadets participate in calisthenics, cardio and strength training workouts. PT enhances the physical fitness level of cadets and readies them to meet Air Force physical fitness standards and tests. Additionally, PT motivates cadets to pursue a physically fit lifestyle. PT is offered three times per week, and cadets are required to attend any two of those sessions. Leadership Laboratory (LLAB) All cadets must attend 80 percent of LLAB. LLAB will be held once a week at Clemson University on Thursdays between 1530-1730 hrs. Academic Classes (AS XXXX) All cadets must complete Aerospace Studies classes with nothing lower than a C- and pass all Leadership Laboratories (Pass/Fail). Cadets on scholarship must have a minimum 2.5 cumulative GPA and be enrolled as full-time students. Explore the various requirements and standards that will help you succeed in the Air Force ROTC: Program Requirements Fitness Standards Scholarship Information Air Force ROTC can help you overcome the financial hardships associated with college, and when you complete your degree, you will have a guaranteed career, debt-free. AFROTC can help with: Tuition Books and other school-type expenses Extra spending money Are you ready to secure a better future for yourself? Air Force ROTC offers four-year scholarships to recent high school graduates and up to three and a half year scholarships to current college students. Some technical scholarships are extendable up to one year. Scholarships are available for all majors, although the highest concentration of offers is in engineering, science, nursing and the strategic foreign language majors. Follow the links below to get more information about AFROTC scholarships: Apply for Scholarships Enlisted Education Programs To contact the Unit Admissions Officer, please use this form. CAP Incentive Flights The Incentive Flight program offers cadets an opportunity to experience Clemson from the air and begin developing basic aviation skills. Experienced pilots from the Civil Air Patrol take cadets on hour-long flights over the beautiful Clemson University campus and the surrounding Blue Ridge Mountains. Cadets in the co-pilot seat will be given control of the yoke to fly, learning safety procedures, basic airplane controls and aerial navigation. Official flight hours are recorded and can help cadets obtain their private pilot's license and increase their chances of receiving a pilot training slot upon graduation and commissioning. Extracurricular Activities Dances, Dinners and Parties From summer to spring, informal and formal activities are planned, i.e. dining in, dining out, Military ball and more. Sports The cadet corps participate in various intramural sports at Clemson University, as well as compete against other detachments in the Annual Notre Dame Invitational Basketball Tournament, held at Notre Dame and GAMA CUP, held every spring semester. Physical fitness is an integral part of cadet and Air Force life. Base Visits Visits to Air Force bases across the United States are encouraged to allow for cadets to see firsthand the "real" Air Force and experience what life will be like on active duty. Professional Development Training (PDT) Program PDT's help cadets gain knowledge of the challenges they will face as junior officers. In the past cadets have participated in a variety of programs such as freefall, cadet combative course and orientation flights. Cadets participate in these programs during the summer; availability is dependent on current funding levels. Others Team ventures course, high ropes course, rafting trips, paintball, combat dining out and much more. Air Force ROTC Detachment 770 Copyright © Clemson University Air Force ROTC Detachment 770 | 300 Tillman Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 864-656-3254 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson