Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Research Compliance Office of Research Compliance The Office of Research Compliance (ORC) promotes a culture of compliance, research integrity, and high quality research within the University community. This is accomplished through consultation and educational programs for all researchers. The ORC facilitates University research, teaching, and public service programs by providing oversight and coordination of research compliance areas involving human subjects, vertebrate animals, recombinant DNA, hazardous agents and research misconduct. What's New? Welcome to the Office of Research Compliance! We are here to assist you with adhering to federal and state regulatory requirements and University policy for research with human subjects, animal subjects and recombinant DNA/hazardous biological agents and nanomaterials. We can help coordinate with the Research Safety Office, Sponsored Programs, Contracts, and other supporting offices in Research and beyond. Since we are not located on the main campus, we can accommodate in person or virtual meetings if you have something to ask or need a consultation. For general questions or if you aren’t sure whom to ask, please contact us. BIG IMPORTANT INFOED update: Starting February 1, all users with an active Clemson email (faculty, staff and students) will be able to log into InfoEd for compliance modules. There will no longer be a requirement to complete the OSP Training to get InfoEd access. RCR Workshops: We have two workshops scheduled for Spring and are finalizing the third. You can see our upcoming programs and a list of offerings around campus on RCR topics on our Advanced RCR Training page here. If you have any questions, please contact rcrtraining@clemson.edu. Please share any RCR-related courses, workshops, lectures, etc. with us and we will be happy to post on our site and notify our RCR network. Covid researchers: There is a process for requesting COVID-19 testing data for research and (surprise!) it is separate from the IRB. If you are interested in what is available and how to access it, visit this site: https://www.clemson.edu/covid-19/testing/research-data.html A reminder that most COVID-related research requires consideration by the Institutional Biosafety Committee. For more information, please contact Hope Smith-Sielicki with the Office of Research Compliance at smith@clemson.edu. Did you know we have a LOT of “first line of defense” InfoEd help available, tailored to each compliance program? No? Then check out our InfoEd section on the left hand menu for the “Education” and “FAQ” pages. Our resources include documentation you can download and videos on step by step processes. No really, we're serious it is time to move our webpages to the new template and simplify your user experience! If you would like to give us feedback on how to improve our site, please contact us. Upcoming Brown Bag Seminars Ethics & Safety Hotline Contact Home Welcome InfoEd Institutional Review Board Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Institutional Biosafety Committee Responsible Conduct of Research Research Misconduct Office of the Vice President for Research Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram