Skip To Top Navigation Skip To Main Content Skip To Footer search Loading... Search Jobs Internal Applicant External Candidate Gateway (Screen reader mode) External Applicant Faculty Positions Student Workers TalentSource Spousal/Partner Program Supporting our Military Ask-HR Current Employees Search Menu Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Search Jobs Internal Applicant External Candidate Gateway (Screen reader mode) External Applicant Faculty Positions Student Workers TalentSource Spousal/Partner Program Supporting our Military HR Self Service Kronos Login COVID-19 Resources Employee Assistance Program Benefits and Well-being Tigers at Work Payroll Training and Development Performance Management Staff and Faculty Relations Transition and Separation International Employment Talent Acquisition Employment Verification HR Resource Library HR Policies and Procedures HR Service Teams Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook TalentSource TalentSource is a wholistic approach to meeting the needs of dual-career families while bringing top talent to the Upstate. The program aims to connect its members with relevant job opportunities in the area. TalentSource also offers professional development opportunities to its members. Next Steps Scroll The TalentSource team is fully committed to supporting families in Upstate, SC. We acknowledge that meeting the needs of dual-career couples is imperative to attracting and retaining exceptional talent. TalentSource is designed to assist spouses/partners of University employees with their job search and acclimation to the Upstate area. *Note: Membership in TalentSource does not guarantee job placement. FAQs SERVICES Networking and access to community resources First look at upcoming job opportunities in the area Training seminars Access to developmental resources and tools ELIGIBILITY Your spouse/partner has accepted a full-time offer of employment with Clemson University within the last year. You have completed the required application (see below to apply now) and screening (conducted after your application has been received) Apply Now What Our Members Are Saying... Truly Amazing! Clemson created an innovative program with dedicated staff to help me achieve my career goals too! - Stephanie Passow Great Support! After Hurricane Maria hit our homeland in Puerto Rico, we lost a lot, but not our faith. We’re pleased to have this program on our side! As we say in Puerto Rico...Para atras, ni para tomar impulso which means, “Never take a step back, not even to gain momentum!” - Laris Soto New Opportunities! Finding a job is difficult when you are changing careers. TalentSource has made this change less arduous and exposed me to new opportunities in my field. - Tony Whaley Benefits to Candidates Candidate Requirements Additional Resources Program Highlights Benefits to Candidates Connecting with a team that understands the dynamics of the market – both professional and personal Access to developmental resources, including tailored training and interview tools Established database of opportunities, which translates to targeted, more timely, job matching Relationship building, which is very important to the community at large Candidate Requirements Submission of TalentSource application Participation in introductory phone call or in-person meeting with TalentSource staff Reference check via SkillSurvey Regular communication with TalentSource staff regarding relevant job opportunities and recent application submissions Utilization of and participation in Sparkhire video introduction platform and quarterly developmental seminars (optional) Contact us at TalentSource@clemson.edu for information on how to become a TalentSource subscriber! General Resources Living in Clemson AnMed Health Prisma Health Clemson Careers Clemson Benefits Program Highlights 67 participants placed since program inception (Fall 2018) 82% of members placed within first 6 months Quarterly developmental seminars available to all members CLEMSON HR Administrative Services Building 108 Perimeter Road Clemson, SC 29634-5337 864.656.2000 RESOURCES Careers Benefits Forms Training Security and Safety Report Quick Links Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Contact HR Clemson, SC Ask-HR Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Copyright © Clemson University. All rights reserved. Clemson University is an AA/EEO employer. Scroll To Top