Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Research Research We are a global research community collaborating across our campuses and around the world. As people for others, our students and professors seek the truth to solve problems locally and globally. We’re probing major health and science frontiers and tackling data to shape public policy and understand how society can use technological advances for good. From bench to bedside and practice to policy we are innovators, incubating ideas to improve our communities and inform policy. We share ideas and shape the future. 400+ Scientists Work on basic and clinical research projects R1 Rated by Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education Designating very high research activity $212.3 Million Awarded in research grants in 2017 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Active Medical Research At Georgetown University Medical Center (GUMC) more than 400 scientists conduct basic, clinical and behavioral research, including 300 active clinical trials. Researchers focus on a wide array of disciplines and are recognized internationally for their work in cancer, neuroscience, health disparities and global health. Medical Research Understanding the Human Condition Our Humanities Initiative funds work that has a deep impact in the academy while also engaging the public by demonstrating the continuing value of the humanities for understanding the challenges and opportunities of the human condition. The initiative also has deep interest in innovative approaches to humanistic teaching and learning and will invite the participation and collaboration of graduate and undergraduate students. Humanities Initiative Play Youtube Video Access Research and Exploration Your daily exposure to our brilliant and innovative faculty community will lead you to groundbreaking science research conducted through support from NASA, NIH and other top agencies. Hoyas in Antarctica Play Youtube Video Becoming a Researcher “I’ve learned how to become a scientist, I’ve learned how to be an independent person and to think analytically and critically. To seek out help when I need it, but also to persevere when challenges arise and not give up, because challenges and hurdles and error messages occur every day.” – Grant Rosensteel (C’19), about his research experience. Research at the College “City officials, community orgs and residents need clear data about what’s happening to workers in the on-demand, ride-hailing industry.” Postdoctorate Wells’ Story “As a psychologist, I’m interested in what I call political plasticity, which refers to how much and how fast we can change our cognition and behavioral habits.” Professor Moghaddam’s Story “My classmates and I look for opportunities to advise and mentor the first-year class of neuroscience students, and we still have older students doing that for us. This is the kind of collaboration that moves science forward.” George’s Story Previous Story Next Story Research News Discovery & Impact Acclaimed Play Honoring War Hero and Georgetown Professor Returns to the Hilltop Remember This: The Lesson of Jan Karski, which tells the story of the beloved Georgetown professor, returns to the Davis Performing Arts Center May 12-22. Discovery & Impact Celebrating 25 Years of Hoya Kids and Early Childhood Education Discovery & Impact New Study Finds Climate Change Could Spark the Next Pandemic Discovery & Impact Georgetown Professor Offers Actionable Steps to Move From Surviving to Thriving in the Workplace Explore More Centers & Programs Meet Our Faculty Office of Technology Commercialization Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog