Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. University of Cincinnati names graduate school dean May 10, 2022 Rose Marie Ward will serve as vice provost and dean of the Graduate School New sites available now on Bearcats Landing April 27, 2022 UC’s faculty and staff intranet, Bearcats Landing, increases transparency, facilitates common business practices, and provides a platform for university-wide internal communication. Learn about the new sites launching this Spring Semester 2022. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. University of Cincinnati names graduate school dean May 10, 2022 Rose Marie Ward will serve as vice provost and dean of the Graduate School New sites available now on Bearcats Landing April 27, 2022 UC’s faculty and staff intranet, Bearcats Landing, increases transparency, facilitates common business practices, and provides a platform for university-wide internal communication. Learn about the new sites launching this Spring Semester 2022. UC Online partners with City of Cincinnati to advance employee... March 14, 2022 The University of Cincinnati and City of Cincinnati partner to offer city employees, their spouses, and dependents access to UC’s online degree programs at a reduced cost in the form of scholarships. Tuition guaranteed or held flat for UC students February 22, 2022 Annual vote Bearcats Landing intranet gains national attention February 17, 2022 Higher education representatives from around the country participate in a virtual demonstration of Bearcats Landing to learn more about the internal communication platform used by UC faculty and staff. UC online programs ranked among best in nation January 25, 2022 U.S. News online rankings Feb. 22 Life of the Mind lecture to examine emotional wellbeing,... January 25, 2022 Event: February 22, 2022 3:00 PM Jennifer Wright-Berryman, associate professor of social work in the College of Allied Health Sciences, will speak on “BEING A CAMPUS COMMUNITY THAT CARES: Emotional Wellbeing, Mental Health, and Suicide Prevention at the University of Cincinnati.” President Pinto's 2021 year-in-review message December 17, 2021 University of Cincinnati President Neville G. Pinto looks back on a historic year that brought students, faculty, staff and the community back together like never before. UC among top bowl-bound football teams for academic performance December 14, 2021 When it comes to Academic Progress among top bowl-bound teams, UC ties Alabama for the No. 1 spot among the top four CFP teams; is No. 1 among the seven qualifying AAC teams; and is also No. 1 in Ohio. Keisha Love named Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement and... December 2, 2021 Keisha Love Named Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement and Academic Inclusion UC Blue Ash professor secures national fellowship November 18, 2021 UC Blue Ash associate professor of economics Sriparna Ghosh has received a national fellowship from the American Association of University Women to support her research on barriers that limit female entrepreneurship in the U.S. Become a Mental Health Champion November 9, 2021 Our university community is filled with empathetic and compassionate Bearcats who care about supporting each other. Many of these individuals are designated Mental Health Champions who have gone through training to learn more about supporting student, faculty, and staff mental health. There are two graduated cohorts of about 235 faculty and staff who have earned this designation. This initiative is coordinated by Healthy UC, UC's well-being collaborative. Fall food drive supports students in need over winter breaks November 1, 2021 Bearcats Pantry hosting fall food drive to support students in need over winter breaks. Calling all UC artists, authors, editors & composers to submit... September 14, 2021 The annual Life of the Mind, interdisciplinary conversations with University of Cincinnati faculty, is tentatively scheduled for Tuesday, Feb. 22, 2022. Once again, the event will celebrate the published or performed creative and scholarly works of UC’s artists, authors, editors & composers with an exhibit and bibliography. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top