Skip to main content Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects Search this site Main menu About Services Standards & Policies Sustainability Capital Process Maps Maintenance and Renovation Maintenance and Renovation Print Facilities and Real Estate Services staff provide hundreds of services ranging from event setup and cleanup to HVAC, electrical, plumbing, painting and locksmith services. If you need assistance or have a question about your projects, contact your Building Manager by selecting your building from the dropdown menu on the Contacts page ». Service Request Most service requests are initiated through our computerized maintenance and management system, AiM. The system allows you to submit a customer service request and track your work order. To initiate a request, click the link below: Initiate Service Request If you have a question about your service request or are experiencing trouble with the system, please call 215.898.7208. Below is a description of the types of service requests: Maintenance Request A maintenance request is a routine repair to your space. Small Projects Small projects are typically renovations or improvements to a space that totals less than $100,000. For more information about these types of projects, please see our Small Project Guidelines (PDF). If you would like to initiate a project, please use this form (PDF). Lock and Key Services Our Lockshop repairs and replaces panic bars, locks on doors, desks, and cabinets. For these services and if you need a key duplicated, please place your request through AiM. You may also get keys duplicated the Lockshop during their open hours: Tuesday and Thursday, 12:30-1:30pm 3101 Walnut Street 215.573.3438 Large Projects (Capital Projects) Larger, capital projects are not initiated with AiM. Please see the Capital Projects section of our site for more information. Go to Capital Projects » Leased Space If you are have a maintenance request in a leased space building, please click the link below. View Leased Space » Emergencies If this is an emergency, please call the Work Control Group directly at 215.898.7208. Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Info for: Penn Community Facilities & Real Estate Services 3101 Walnut St Philadelphia, Pa 19104 Emergency/Vehicular Address: 3160 Chestnut Street (proceed to the glass Pavilion at end of the parking lot) © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Report accessibility issues and get help » Webmaster Contact » Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Standards & Policies Standards Policies Safety Procedures Sustainability Energy Management Built Environment Waste Management and Recycling Collaborative Efforts Capital Process Initiate a Project Capital Planning Facilities Renewal Maps and Locations Building Locations Penn Connects Public Art Bike Racks Discover Penn Public Parking Printing the Campus Map PennAccess Location List Contacts Penn Community Penn Homepage