Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller See all news Sustainability Center News Home » Centers & Initiatives » Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business » Sustainable Business News » Articles Kyle Winkler, Josh Dirks, Ellie Hamalian, and Tiffany Cho, following their business case presentation at the University of Denver Daniels College of Business Published on: 05-25-2022 After Social Distancing, Scheller MBA Students’ First In-Person Case Competition Is Even Sweeter Many MBA students look forward to participating in case competitions where they have the opportunity to apply lessons they have learned in the classroom to real-world business challenges. The pandemic, however, led to the cancellation of in-person competitions, which give students the chance to network with peers, faculty, and employers. When social distancing rules relaxed this past spring, Scheller College MBA students jumped at the chance to participate in the 2022 Race and Case Competition. Tiffany Cho (MBA 2022), who was in her second-year of the Full-time MBA Program at the time of the competition, said, “It was our team’s first-ever in-person case competition, and we are really glad to have had this opportunity as it turned out to be a fantastic learning experience and a lot of fun.” The competition was held February 24-27 at the University of Denver Daniels College of Business and Breckenridge Ski Resort. In addition to Cho, the team included three students from the Full-time MBA Program: second-year students Ellie Hamalian (MBA 2022) and Kyle Winkler (MBA 2022), and first-year student Josh Dirks. In the business case portion of the competition, teams were tasked with creating a strategy for a Chinese athleisure apparel company to enter the U.S market while utilizing emerging metaverse technology and doing so in a socially responsible manner. The business case accounted for 90% of the overall score. This unique case competition also included a ski/snowboard race portion that counted for 10% of the team’s overall score. Other universities represented at the competition included University of Alabama (first prize), University of Florida (second prize), and Auburn University (third prize). Following the competition, Cho and Winkler reflected on the overall experience and lessons learned. They agreed that Scheller had prepared them well to accomplish the business case portion of the competition. They said that being part of the Strategic Brand Management class, taught by Aaron Hackett, gave them a good foundation to brainstorm for market entry ideas and strategies. Additionally, while preparing for consulting interviews, both Cho and Winkler had come across numerous market entry cases, which gave them a leg-up as the competition’s overall approach was similar. Teams were required to include marketing, ethical, financial, cultural, and research perspectives in their presentations. Cho said that despite the challenge of time constraints, “It was very interesting to apply my classroom learning to a real-life scenario.” She said that the judges seemed pleased with her team’s presentation, slides, and innovative ideas. Winkler reflected on the alpine portion of the competition: “I have taken several ski trips throughout my life and consider myself an intermediate-level skier. It was a lot of fun to test my skills in an actual race format, and the University of Denver staff did a great job putting everything together!” Teammate Dirks won the ski race portion, recording the fastest time of all competitors. Kyle Winkler, Josh Dirks, and Tiffany Cho participated in the alpine portion of the Race and Case competition. Cho remarked, “It was a great experience for us to meet with other MBA teams, present our strategic plan to the judges, and participate in the ski race.” Even though the team, which came in fifth place, did not receive a prize, Cho said, “We are still very proud of the effort we gave and thankful for all we learned in the process.” The Scheller team was supported by the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business, the Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics, the MBA Graduate Programs Office, and the Net Impact at Scheller College of Business – MBA Chapter. Written by Jennifer Holley Lux TwitterFacebookLinkedIn CONTACTS Event Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures