Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Financial Aid Menu Search TTU Financial Aid Home Verification To make sure information reported on the FAFSA is accurate, the federal government requires universities to spot check our students' information. This means we need additional documents from you and your family. If your FAFSA was selected, you will see a note on your Student Aid Report and receive an email from the Financial Aid Office. Don't assume you've done anything wrong! You are not alone and we will help you through this process. Go to the Double T Dashboard to view student verification requirements and upload documents. If information is needed from family members, you will need to give them access. Family members can complete their requirements on the Family Dashboard. It is important for you to take care of your verification requirements as soon as possible. Verification Priority Deadline To retain priority and to allow time for accurate processing, all verification documents must be submitted by: 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 Fall 2021 July 1, 2021 Fall 2022 July 1, 2022 Fall 2023 July 1, 2023 Spring 2022 October 15, 2021 Spring 2023 October 15, 2022 Spring 2024 October 15, 2023 Summer 2022 April 15, 2022 Summer 2023 April 15, 2023 Summer 2024 April 15, 2024 Verification review process can take up to 4-6 weeks from the time the Student Financial Aid and Scholarships Office receives all requested required documents. Verification paperwork submitted after the deadline is not guaranteed to be completed by the Payment Due Date for each term. *Consequences of missing the verification deadline* If the student does not provide the requested verification documentation within the reasonable timeframe that has been established, the institution may not disburse aid prior to the 1st class day. Failure to provide the COMPLETED requested documentation prior to the established deadline may result in the following: · Delay in award package · Delay in the disbursement of Title IV aid · Ineligibility of Title IV aid · Late fees added to your e-bill by Student Business Services · Cancelation of classes for non-payment It is the student's responsibility to make sure the Financial Aid Office receives the documents requested in a timely manner. It is important that you do not make further corrections or changes to your FAFSA while verification is pending and once verification has been completed. Frequently Asked Questions What dates should I use for the FAFSA and Income Taxes? The income taxes you need is based on the academic year to which you are applying for aid. What is the Data Retrieval Tool and how can I use it? The IRS Data Retrieval Tool is available through fafsa.gov and the myStudentAid app for many applicants. The retrieval tool allows FAFSA applicants and parents to transfer their income tax information from the IRS to the FAFSA. If you update FAFSA with your tax information, please contact Student Financial Aid & Scholarships to let us know. finaid.advisor@ttu.edu or 806-742-3681 What forms can I upload to verify my tax information? You can verify your tax information in a few ways: Update the FAFSA using the Data Retrieval Tool. If you update FAFSA with your tax information, please contact Student Financial Aid & Scholarships to let us know. finaid.advisor@ttu.edu or 806-742-3681 Upload a Tax Return Transcript or 1040 U.S. Income Tax Return (Schedules 1, 2, and 3 if applicable.) How do I obtain a tax return transcript? You can obtain the tax return transcript by printing off a free copy at irs.gov or requesting a copy by phone or mail. If you use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool to successfully transfer tax information to the FAFSA, a Tax Return Transcript will not be needed. If you update FAFSA with your tax information, please contact Student Financial Aid & Scholarships to let us know. finaid.advisor@ttu.edu or 806-742-3681 Am I required to file a tax return? Whether someone has claimed you as an exemption or not, check out Publication 17 at irs.gov for tax filing requirements. I filed an amended tax return. What can I upload to complete Verification? Please contact Student Financial Aid & Scholarships so we can provide information specific to your situation. Example of 1040X Amended Return finaid.advisor@ttu.edu or 806-742-3681 What if my family information has changed? Please contact Student Financial Aid & Scholarships so we can provide information specific to your situation. finaid.advisor@ttu.edu or 806-742-3681 My employer didn't send me a W2. What can I do? You can submit a W2 Wage and Income Transcript (Form 4506T). This transcript will list any earned income you had for the year. Check box 8: Form W2 In section 9, the end of year date is 12/31/xxxx for the year you are requesting. Mail to: IRS RAIVS Team Stop 6716 AUSC Austin, TX 73301 Upload the W2 to the Double T Dashboard. Example of W-2 and Wage and Income Transcript W-2 Example Wage and Income Transcript Are there different types of Verification? Verification Group Must Verify this information V1: Standard Verification Upload to the Double T Dashboard: Tax filers: AGI, Income Taxes Paid, Untaxed Portions of IRA Distributions, Untaxed Portions of Pensions, IRA Deductions and Payments, Tax-exempt Interest Income, Education Credits Non- tax filers: Income Earned From Work (must attach all W2s for the requested year) V4: Custom Verification Bring in person with valid ID*: High school completion status or completion of a 2 year program that is acceptable for full credit towards a bachelor's degree identity/statement of educational purpose *If you are not able to complete in person, the original v4 form with the notary section completed and a copy of a valid ID may be submitted by mail. Images and fax are not accepted. V5: Aggregate Verification Bring in person with valid ID*: High school completion status or completion of a 2 year program that is acceptable for full credit towards a bachelor's degree identity/statement of educational purpose Upload to Double T Dashboard: All Standard Verification requirements. *If you are not able to complete in person, the original v5 form with notary section completed and a copy of a valid ID may be submitted by mail. Images and fax are not accepted. I am victim of identity theft. What can I upload to complete Verification? Please contact Student Financial Aid & Scholarships so we can provide information specific to your situation. finaid.advisor@ttu.edu or 806-742-3681 Verification Resources Financial Aid Information – 2022-2023 Tax Return Line Items for Verification Office of Student Financial Aid Verification Policy and Procedure. Refer any instance of suspected fraud or criminal conduct by an applicant to the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Education or to the state or local authorities. Assistant Inspector General for Investigations U. S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW MES, Room 4122 Washington,D.C. 20202-1510 Phone: 202-205-9449 Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Financial Aid Like Financial Aid on FacebookLike Financial Aid on Facebook Follow Financial Aid on twitterFollow Financial Aid on twitter Subscribe to Financial Aid on YouTubeSubscribe to Financial Aid on YouTube Follow Financial Aid on InstagramFollow Financial Aid on Instagram Address Texas Tech University | Student Financial Aid & Scholarships | West Hall 301 | P.O. Box 45011, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone P: 806.742.3681 | F: 806.742.0880 Email finaid.advisor@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 26, 2022 12:04 PM Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Back Calculating Costs Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Back Cost to Attend Net Cost Calculator Find My Financial Aid & Scholarship Advisor Red Raider Guarantee Study Abroad Types of Aid Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Scholarships Financial Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Back For Continuing Students Incoming Freshmen Incoming Transfer External Scholarship Search Grants Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Federal Pell Grant Federal Supplemental Education Opportunity Grant (SEOG) Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant (IASG) Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Texas Public Education Grant (TPEG) TEXAS Grant TTU Grant Federal TEACH Grant Student Employment Loans Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Federal Direct Loan Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Graduate/Professional Students Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Parents College Access Loan Texas B-On-Time Loan Private Education Loan Student Athletes Requirements & Forms Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Verification Forms Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Financial Aid Forms Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Special Circumstances Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Special Circumstances Dependency Change Cost of Attendance Review Satisfactory Academic Progress View/Accept Financial Aid Borrower Resources Financial Aid Borrower Resources Back Loan Options Financial Aid Borrower Resources Loan Options Back Federal Direct Loan Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Graduate/Professional Students Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Parents College Access Loan Texas B-On-Time Loan Private Education Loan Understanding Loans Financial Aid Borrower Resources Understanding Loans Back Borrowed Assistance Financial Awareness Counseling Understanding Interest Leave of Absence or Graduation Grace Period Loan Servicer Common Loan Definition & Glossary Repayment Options Financial Aid Borrower Resources Repayment Options Back Federal Loan Exit Counseling Repaying your Loans Deferment & Forbearance Cancellation & Forgiveness Loan Consolidation Avoiding Default Consumer Information Financial Aid Back Consumer Information Planning and Assessment Policy and Procedure U.S. Department of Education's College Affordability & Transparency Center Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index