Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) Show/Hide About Compliance and Oversight Action Plans Initiatives Resources Incident Reporting Events Centers and Programs The Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity offers this list of campus resources for members of the Brown community invested in issues and questions of diversity and inclusion in the areas of teaching, learning and campus life. Brown Center for Students of Color (BCSC) BCSC was created in 1976 to serve the interests and meet the needs of all Third World students and to promote racial and ethnic pluralism in the Brown community. The director of TWC holds an appointment as an assistant dean of the college and supports the academic needs of students of color. Brown RISD Hillel As the largest student organization on campus, Hillel offers performing artists, lectures, Jewish learning, symposia, community action projects, Israel study, and a safe place for students to be Jewish. Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) CSREA supports and generates rigorous and accessible research, performance, art and scholarship on a broad range of issues pertaining to race and ethnicity in America. Chaplains and Religious Life The Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life works collaboratively with many student organizations, spanning the breadth of Brown’s religious diversity and involving more than 40% of the student population. The office also cares for and responds to the broad pastoral needs of Brown’s faculty, staff and students. Global Brown Center for International Students Global Brown provides international student resources and advising. LGBTQ Center The LGBTQ Center provides a comprehensive range of education, information and advocacy services on lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer issues and works to create and maintain an open, safe and inclusive environment for LGBTQ students, faculty, and staff at Brown. Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs The Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs is responsible for the recruitment, selection, education, successful academic progression, and graduation of minority students from Alpert Medical School, and raising awareness about cultural competency and diversity. Office of Residential Life This office is responsible for maintaining student residences that support the educational mission of Brown and are designed to provide learning opportunities that promote students' academic endeavors, and which encourage their growth and development. The Office of Residential Life recognizes that learning is not solely academic in nature and that a large part of learning takes place outside the classroom. Office of Student Veterans and Commissioning Programs This is a campus resource for student veterans, whether of the United States military or military service in other countries and for students interesting in military officer commissioning programs, including ROTC. Pembroke Center The Pembroke Center at Brown University is an interdisciplinary research center that fosters critical scholarship on questions of gender and difference, broadly defined, in national and transnational contexts. Rites and Reason The mission of this theater program is to develop new works for the American Stage, which analyze and articulate the phenomenal and universal odyssey of the African Diaspora. Over the years, the mission has grown to embrace the expression of other cultural experiences. Sarah Doyle Women’s Center SDWC welcomes those interested in issues around gender, and the intersections of gender and other markers of identity. The Center offers a variety of services and programs, as well as meeting space for University and community groups. The Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning The Sheridan Center promotes evidence-based teaching to create an inclusive environment where all learners can succeed. To encourage innovation and interdisciplinary collaboration, we cultivate dynamic partnerships with all members of Brown’s teaching and learning communities. The Center advances effective liberal learning, encourages ongoing professional development, and fosters reflective teaching and learning. Undocumented, First-Generation College Student and Low-Income Student Center Any student who self-identifies as having minimal prior exposure to or knowledge of experiences like those at Brown may be considered a first-generation student and may find additional resources, such as academic and social opportunities. Resources Training Resources Request Consultation/Training Resources for Anti-Racism Resources for Virtual Environments Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Contact Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Brown University Box 1988 Horace Mann, Third Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2216 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat