Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information for: Admitted Students Alumni Current Students Education Partners Executive Education Faculty International Students Nondegree Students Prospective Faculty Veterans Visiting Students Transfer Students Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Diversity & Inclusion History & Mission Facts & Figures Events News & Announcements Contact Related Links Advising Maps & Directions FAQs Admission Overview How to Apply Why Choose Woods? Tuition & Aid Visit Alumni Tuition Discount Related Links Articulation Agreements Course Schedule & Registration Process Events Facts & Figures Undergraduate Overview Bachelor's Degree Applied Liberal Arts (ALA) Business Communication Corporate Systems Criminal and Social Justice Economics English Concentration (ALA) History Concentration (ALA) Information Systems Interdisciplinary Studies Concentration (ALA) Natural Sciences Philosophy Concentration (ALA) Political Science Concentration (ALA) Psychology Sociology Concentration (ALA) Sustainability Certificate Related Links Advising BC Summer Session Course Schedule & Registration Process Nondegree Students Visiting Students Resources for Current Students Woods Academic Calendar Graduate Overview Master's Programs M.S. in Applied Analytics M.S. in Applied Economics Articulation Agreements MSAE Advisory Board M.S. in Applied Economics & Cybersecurity Policy & Governance Master of Healthcare Administration M.S. in Leadership & Administration M.S. in Sports Administration Certificates Corporate Communications and Marketing Online Certificate in Data Analytics Executive Leadership and Organizational Development Human Resources Management Project Management Cybersecurity Graduate Certificates Cybersecurity Analytics Sports Analytics Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Related Links Academic Policies BC Summer Session Executive Education Nondegree Students Registration Process Student Life Woods Academic Calendar Community Overview Jesuit Values Advising Woods College Graduation Process Living in Boston BC Resources Related Links Campus Life Career Center Events Manresa Experience Veterans Experience Course Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Related Links Academic Calendar Woods Faculty Resources Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Woods College site Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Admitted Students Alumni Current Students Education Partners Executive Education Faculty International Students Nondegree Students Prospective Faculty Veterans Visiting Students Transfer Students BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Criminal and Social Justice Home Undergraduate Bachelor's Degree Criminal and Social Justice B.A., Criminal and Social Justice Bachelor's of Arts This flexible B.A. program explores the intersection of criminal and social justice through the lenses of psychology, sociology, and data analysis. In addition to studying the foundations of the criminal justice system, students analyze systemic issues such as addiction, race, gender, and violence to understand the social and economic roots of crime and identify ethical approaches to addressing them. Taught by experts in the field of criminal justice—including attorneys, police chiefs, academics, and practitioners—the program combines in-depth study of criminal law and criminology with electives on social change, psychology, and sociology. Boston College’s Jesuit tradition of inquiry and service prepares graduates to help build an ethical, rehabilitative criminal justice system. Apply Inquire Explore B.A. Programs Core Curriculum A distinguishing characteristic of liberal arts education is a required core curriculum. The Bachelor of Arts programs require the following core courses: The Examined Life Woods College Formative Seminar 2 English courses: - College Writing - Literary Works or other core literature course 2 Philosophy courses (one of which should be an Ethics course) 2 Theology courses 2 Social Science courses 2 History courses (1 must be non-Western) 1 Quantitative Reasoning course 1 Natural Science course 1 Arts course 1 Cultural Diversity Course The Purposeful Life Major Requirements Requirements for Major Course Code Principles of Criminal Justice ADCJ 1100 Criminology ADCJ 2000 Criminal Law and Procedure ADCJ 3010 American Institutions ADCJ 3051 Corrections: Policies and Practice ADCJ 2101 Introduction to Psychology ADPS 1100 Introduction Social Justice ADCJ 1100 Introduction to Sociology ADSO 1100 Additional electives: Select 4 courses (2 courses from Social and Systemic Challenges in Criminal Justice and 2 from Interdisciplinary Courses). Social and Systemic Challenges in Criminal Justice (2 courses) Course Code Psychology of Addiction ADPS 2110 Community Psychology ADPS 2445 Deviance and Social Control ADSO 1030 Class, Power, and Social Change ADSO 1151 Social Change in Action ADSO 1357 Law and Society ADSO 1365 Drugs and Society ADSO 2010 Sociology of Antiracism ADSO 3019 Race, Gender, and Violence ADSO 3503 Race, Surveillance, and Society ADSO 3510 The Challenge of Justice ADTH/ADPL 2160 Interdisciplinary Electives (2 Electives) Course Code Applied Data Analysis and Interpretation ADBM 1771 Conflict Resolution and Negotiation Skills ADBM 3075 Law and Morality ADPL/ADCJ 1454 Research Methods for the Social Sciences ADPS 1153 Developmental Psychology ADPS 1261 Forensic Psychology ADPS 2220 Abnormal Psychology ADPS 2234 Cognitive Psychology ADPS 2272 Cultural Anthropology ADSO 1501 Learning Outcomes Appraise the power dynamics of policy, social norms and biases in determining how criminal laws are made and enforced. Apply established and emerging psychological and sociological theories to explain criminal behavior. Identify and propose interdisciplinary approaches to resolve critical criminal and social justice issues, recognizing that these issues are both evolving and contested, as demonstrated in real-life case studies. Employ oral and written communication to effectively interact within a variety of audiences and contexts. Articulate the competing ethical issues surrounding criminality and punishment and advocate for a course of action informed by ethical principles that serve the common good. Explain the roles of the key components of the criminal justice system: law enforcement, the courts, and corrections. Integrate historic social, cultural, legal, economic, and political events into a coherent explanation of the current state of American institutions. Distinguish the constitutional protections of people who are suspected to have committed a crime, those who are accused of having committed a crime, and those who are convicted. Explain how legislation and judicial decisions affect criminal justice policies and practices. Apply criminal and constitutional law to specific facts employing legal reasoning skills Careers The B.A. in Criminal and Social Justice prepares students to work in fields and roles such as: Law Social Work Corrections Community and Victim Advocacy Government Law Enforcement Nonprofit Sector Security apply Apply Print Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Deadlines Fall Enrollment August 1 Spring Enrollment December 1 Summer Enrollment April 15 Rolling Admission After deadlines, as space permits. Application Start Your Application If you are mailing hard copies of application materials, please send them to: Boston College Woods College of Advancing Studies Admissions Office St. Mary's Hall South 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 *Current Woods College Undergraduate degree students interested in adding a certificate to their plan of study should not use the online application. Declare your certificate here Academic transcripts Submit the following: Official high school transcript with degree conferral date or official GED Official college transcript(s) from all previously attended colleges or universities If you have been conferred your associate's degree, you may submit an Attestation Form in lieu of an official high school transcript. The completed form can be sent to wcasadm@bc.edu. Please mail transcripts to: Boston College Woods College of Advancing Studies Admissions Office St. Mary's Hall South 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 If your academic institution provides electronic transcripts please indicate wcasadm@bc.edu as the recipient. Applicants whose Native language is not English are required to demonstrate English language proficiency, for required scores, visit our International Student page. International Student page Essays To be uploaded to your online Application Form. Please submit two essays by responding to two of the topics listed below. The essays should be typewritten, double-spaced, and each essay should be limited to 500 – 750 words in length. The essays are important to the Admissions Committee as they allow the committee to assess your personal goals, your reasons for choosing the program to which you are applying, your commitment to your educational goals, and your writing ability. The essays must be uploaded as part of your on-line application. Discuss your reason(s) for applying to the BA program at the Woods College of Advancing Studies at this time. Support your reasons with specific examples. Discuss your academic goals and how they apply to your planned career and/or life goals. Describe a life changing experience that had a significant personal impact on you. Please include details about the situation (which could be positive or negative), and what were the lessons learned. Application Fee Application fee: $45 Paid through online application. Recommendations Two Letters of Recommendation Letters must be sent directly from recommender either through online application portal or directly to Woods College (wcasadm@bc.edu). We will not accept letters that are not in a sealed envelope mailed directly from recommender or emailed directly from recommender. Please note: Letters of recommendations should be provided by professional or academic recommenders. International Students 1. Demonstrated English Language Proficiency required (minimum TOEFL score of 90-100) For additional information about scores, visit our International Student page. 2. Interview For all international students and non-native English speakers, interviews are conducted as part of the application process. The purpose of the interview is for the admission committee to gain a better sense of an applicant and how the program fits his or her academic and vocational needs. Additionally, the interview provides the committee an opportunity to assess a student’s specific information and to address the unique needs one may have in transitioning to Boston College. The interview will last no more than 15 minutes. Interviews will only be scheduled once an application has been submitted. 3. Transcript Evaluation All students who have, or are currently attending, an institution outside of the United States must provide a detailed, course-by-course transcript evaluation indicating the following: For BA applicants: conferral of a secondary school degree that is equivalent to a U.S. high school’s degree from an accredited institution. For MS applicants: conferral of an undergraduate degree that is equivalent to a U.S. bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution. This evaluation is not just an English translation, but a document provided by an accredited evaluating agency that shows all grades, course titles, credit hours, United States degree equivalency, grade-point average (GPA), and date of degree conferral. This detailed, course-by-course transcript evaluation must be submitted to complete the application. Please request a detailed, course-by-course transcript evaluation for all international institutions where a degree was conferred from one of the following agencies: Educational Credential Evaluators P.O. Box 514070 Milwaukee, WI 53203-3470 www.ece.org Center for Educational Documentation P.O. Box 170116 Boston, MA 02117 www.cedevaluations.com SpanTran 450 Seventh Ave, Suite 804 New York, NY 10123 SpanTran World Education Services Inc. P.O. Box 5087 Bowling Green Station New York, NY 10274-5087 www.wes.org Financial Aid & Scholarships For Financial Aid and Scholarship information please click the link below Financial Aid and Scholarship Information Questions Schedule an appointment with an admissions counselor through our online calendar. Online Calendar inquire Get More Information Loading... Quick Links Advising Take a Course as a Nondegree Student Why Woods? Diversity & Inclusion Events Back To Top Back To Top Woods College of Advancing Studies St. Mary's Hall South, Ground Floor Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts 02467 617-552-3900 woodscollege@bc.edu About Admission Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Community Apply Contact Give Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College