Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Program on the Global Demography of Aging at Harvard University Take the COVID-19 Symptoms & Social Distancing Web Survey: VERSION 2 Join in the fight against COVID-19 by clicking above to take the 10-minute survey. Even if you took the first version of this survey, we encourage you to update your information by taking this new version. Program on the Global Demography of Aging at Harvard University Menu Search for: Home People Principal Investigator Deputy Directors Executive Committee Post-Doctoral Fellows Visiting Scholars PGDA Affiliates Call for Pilot Projects Eligibility Grants Award Conditions How to Apply Investigator Responsibilities Pilot Projects Ongoing Pilot Projects Completed Pilot Projects Major PGDA Initiatives Funding PGDA Fellowship Research & Travel Funding Events External Networks Working Papers Data WELCOME TO THE PGDA The Program on the Global Demography of Aging (PGDA) at Harvard University, led by David E. Bloom, received funding from the National Institute on Aging at the National Institutes of Health to carry out research on important themes related to global aging and health, with an emphasis on issues in the developing world. A key overarching theme focuses the expertise available at various schools at Harvard toward one of the pressing health questions of global aging, namely understanding the changing patterns of adult morbidity and mortality, including their measurements and causes, demographic and economic implications, and policies and programs for addressing and mitigating such implications. The PGDA’s research focuses on five main themes: Measurement of the global patterns of disease, mortality, and morbidity in aging populations. Socio-economic determinants of population health and aging Impact of health care services on the health and well-being of older persons Determinants of mental health and cognition for the elderly (including Alzheimer’s Disease and Alzheimer’s-Related Dementias) Long-term care institutions The PGDA conducts research seminars and workshops, publishes a working paper series, and generates publications and research proposals. The PGDA provides support for research on demographic change and aging throughout the world, with a particular focus on developing countries. An important component of this research is the role of burden of disability and disease in aging, particularly the measurement of this burden, as well as analyzing its causes and consequences. PGDA supports existing program of research at Harvard University as well as the development of new research, and is a component of a wider university initiative on global health. The PGDA frequently collaborates with the Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies (HCPDS) in Cambridge, under the direction of Lisa Berkman. The mission of HCPDS is to promote cross-disciplinary research on critical issues of population, health, and development that will advance the well-being of the global poor. The PGDA and HCPDS coordinate to disseminate research and information to members of the Harvard community and beyond. Related Websites Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health Harvard University COVID-19 Survey Results Click here to view the week 1 COVID-19 survey results HHI Global COVID-19 Survey Click here to take the Harvard Humanitarian Initiative Global COVID-19 Survey. News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College