COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Music - Opera Performance, Master's Master'sMusic - Opera Performance All Programs College of Fine Arts School of Music Wichita State's Master of Music degree program will help you take your musical talent—and career—to a higher level. The program combines professional training with acclaimed faculty and year-round performance opportunities—on campus and throughout Kansas' center of arts and culture. Learn how Music - Opera Performance is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission to the MM opera performance program is based on the results of a live audition and interview. Prior to scheduling an audition, you must send the following to the director of opera and music theatre: Headshot and resume Statement of academic and career goals Recording of three selections in various languages and styles For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Learn from the best with international opera star At Wichita State, you have an amazing opportunity to study with accomplished opera star (and WSU alumnus) – Alan Held. Held, an international opera star and one of the leading bass-baritone singing actors today, is the Ann and Dennis Ross Faculty of Distinction in Opera. Curriculum To complete the Master of Music degree in opera performance, you'll take a minimum of 36 credit hours, including a graduate performance recital, two leading roles in opera productions, and direction and assistance in two productions. Every MM concentration requires 12 credit hours of core courses—in addition to hours in your specialization area. View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU's extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©