Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF EDUCATION COLLEGE OF EDUCATION EDUCATION (TEACHER EDUCATION PROGRAM) Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 EDTEP 501 Community-Based Field Experience (1-10, max. 15) Field experience and group discussions accompanying the first quarter of study in an Elementary Teacher Education Program. Field experience in community based organizations or school settings. Prerequisite: elementary TEP student. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 501 EDTEP 502 Second Quarter Field Experience - Elementary (2-10, max. 15) Field experience accompanying the second quarter of study in an Elementary Teacher Education Program. Observe school-year opening full-time in late August through September; field experiences during the quarter in supervised school placements. Prerequisite: elementary TEP student. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 502 EDTEP 503 Third Quarter Field Experience - Elementary (2-6, max. 12) Field experience and use of reflective process in small group discussions accompanying third quarter of study in an Elementary Teacher Education Program. Field experiences during the quarter in supervised school placements. Prerequisite: elementary TEP student. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 503 EDTEP 505 Capstone Project: Tools for Reflection - Elementary ([1-3]-, max. 3) Group discussions fostering integration of coursework, field experience, and teaching experiences through documentation and reflection on first year teaching experiences. Using certification standards for teachers, students illustrate their learning through multiple forms of evidence. Final capstone project is presented to an audience. Prerequisite: elementary TEP student. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 505 EDTEP 506 Issues of Abuse (1) Yelena Patish Johnson Introduces students to issues that the State of Washington has determined to be significantly harmful to a child or youth, and when educators are expected to intervene. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 506 EDTEP 511 School and Society (3) Exploration of issues regarding schooling and society, such as matters of value and value tension in American schools. Consideration of social values such as equality, opportunity, pluralism, and community; historical and contemporary evidence of values in schooling; and how values can conflict in policy and practice. Prerequisite: elementary TEP student. Offered: AS. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 511 EDTEP 515 Instructional Practice and Performance I (4) Focuses on supporting teacher candidates to plan for, enact, and reflect on productive learning experiences for K-12 students where discussion is a central component and learning experience. First in a three-course series. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 515 EDTEP 516 Instructional Practice and Performance II (4) Supports candidates to plan for, enact, and reflect on a variety of assessment opportunities presented to K-12 students. Candidates analyze K-12 students' learning through investigation of a variety of assessment data points as evidence. Second in a three-course series. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 516 EDTEP 517 Instructional Practice and Performance III (4) Supports teacher candidates to plan for, enact, and reflect on productive learning experiences for K-12 students where engaging in rigorous content instruction is a central component and learning experience. Third in a three-course series. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 517 EDTEP 521 Teaching and Learning in Numeracy I (4) Focus on mathematics from the perspective of the learner and on the meaning of understanding a mathematics concept. Examination of cultural aspects of the development of these concepts. Prerequisite: elementary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 521 EDTEP 522 Teaching and Learning in Numeracy II (3) Focus on pedagogy of mathematics. In conjunction with field experience, students extend understanding of mathematics and successfully integrate mathematics as a tool for learning science and art. Prerequisite: elementary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 522 EDTEP 523 Teaching and Learning in Science (3) Science teaching in a manner consistent with how young children learn science concepts and skills. Opportunities are provided for work on science activities similar to those used with elementary school children and to experience many of the problems and successes of preadolescents. Prerequisite: elementary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 523 EDTEP 524 Physical Education and Health in the Schools (2) Techniques and procedures for teaching physical education and health in elementary and secondary schools. For students in Teacher Education Program. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 524 EDTEP 531 Teaching and Learning in Literacy I (3) Investigation of the multiple natures of literacy development. Students study the impact of culture and family on literacy development by reading and discussing a variety of texts while also experiencing the development of their own learning through literature study, the writing process, and oral presentations. Prerequisite: elementary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 531 EDTEP 532 Teaching and Learning in Literacy II (4) Introduces participants to the content and process of literacy learning in elementary school. Study of abilities needed for effective literacy use, instructional strategies to help children acquire these abilities, and assessment strategies to evaluate student progress. Prerequisite: elementary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 532 EDTEP 533 Teaching and Learning in Literacy III (3) Introduces participants to the content and process of literacy learning in elementary school. Study of abilities needed for effective literacy use, instructional strategies to help children acquire these abilities, and assessment strategies to evaluate student progress. Prerequisite: elementary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 533 EDTEP 541 Dilemmas of Teaching and Learning in Elementary School ([2-4]-, max. 4) Covers human learning in the elementary school setting with emphasis on discipline-specific cognition and cognitive development. Prerequisite: elementary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 541 EDTEP 543 Teaching and Learning in Social Studies (4) Strategies for teaching social studies and the arts through integrated thematic units of curriculum and instruction. Prerequisite: elementary TEP student. Offered: AS. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 543 EDTEP 544 Differentiated Instruction (1-4, max. 20) Introduction to the concepts and practice of differentiated instruction for children with diverse developmental, linguistic, and cultural characteristics. Prerequisite: elementary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 544 EDTEP 551 Multicultural Teaching (3) Concepts, theories, and strategies that constitute major dimensions of multicultural education. Focus on racial and ethnic groups, social class, and gender. Dimensions of multicultural education examined include content integration, knowledge construction process, prejudice reduction, equity pedagogy, and empowering school culture and social structure. Prerequisite: TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 551 EDTEP 552 Assessment in Elementary Education ([1-2]-, max. 3) Emphasis on methods of assessment that reinforce understanding of the various disciplines. Includes performance assessments, assessments of student projects and papers, traditional exams, and observational exams. Prerequisite: elementary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 552 EDTEP 555 Understanding Indigenous Perspectives: Implications for Teaching and Learning ([0/1]-, max. 1) Dawn Hardison-Stevens, Ph.D Provides participants a pedagogical approach in working with Native learners, families, and communities. It's designed to enhance and engage students in understanding contemporary Native American history emphasizing local Pacific Northwest tribes and fulfilling HB 5433. Content focuses on incorporating Native knowledge and building beneficial relationships in curriculum development. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 555 EDTEP 560 Teaching for Learning in Secondary School (3) Studies human learning in an educational setting, with an emphasis on learning of school subjects. Topics include nature of learning, knowledge and teaching, motivation, culture, and cognition. First in a two-course sequence. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 560 EDTEP 561 Teaching and Learning for Secondary Schools II (2) Study of human learning in an educational setting, with an emphasis on learning of school subjects. Topics include nature of learning, knowledge and teaching, motivation, culture, and cognition. Second of a two-course sequence. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 561 EDTEP 562 Adolescent Development and Education I (2-) Overview of trends and issues of adolescent development and behavior in relation to contemporary secondary schooling. Examines psychological perspectives on adolescent identity, interpersonal relationships, academic engagement, and social deviancy in schools. First in a two-course sequence. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 562 EDTEP 563 Adolescent Development and Education II (-2) Overview of trends and issues of adolescent development and behavior in relation to contemporary secondary schooling. Examines psychological perspectives on adolescent identity, interpersonal relationships, academic engagement, and social deviancy in schools. Second in a two-course sequence. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 563 EDTEP 564 Working in Schools (1-2, max. 20) Explores the organizational, personal, and interpersonal aspects of working as a teacher in schools. Preparation for membership and leadership in a professional learning community and for continuing professional growth. Prerequisite: TEP student Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 564 EDTEP 566 Creating Classrooms for All Students (2-4, max. 4) Provides middle and high school teachers with an understanding of how to organize their classrooms so as to encourage and teach civility and be familiar with the needs of special education students. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 566 EDTEP 571 Topics and Tensions in School and Society (4) Exploration of issues of value and value tension in American schools. Consideration of social values of equality, opportunity, pluralism, and community, historical and contemporary evidence of values in schooling, and how values can conflict in policy and practice. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 571 EDTEP 573 Assessment in Secondary Education (4) Strong emphasis on methods of assessment that reinforce understanding of the various disciplines, including performance assessments, assessments of student projects and papers, traditional exams, and observational exams. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 573 EDTEP 574 Assessment in Secondary Education - Computer Science (3) Surveys approaches to formative and summative assessment of computer science knowledge from both equity and psychometrics perspectives, and impacts of assessments on identity, interest, self-efficacy, and mindset. Emphasizes deliberate practice on computer science assessment design and critique and the tradeoffs of assessment automation technologies in supporting learning. Recommended: experience with at least one programming language; and EDTEP 573. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 574 EDTEP 575 Working with English Language Learners and Literacy Across the Curriculum (4) Prepares pre-service secondary teachers to meet the needs of culturally and linguistically diverse students in the mainstream secondary classroom. Emphasis on second language acquisition, critical literacy issues, and integration of language and literacy into academic content areas for adolescent learners. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 575 EDTEP 577 Justice and Equity in Computer Science Teaching (3) Covers foundational intersections between computer science content knowledge and issues of diversity, equity, inclusion, and justice. Addresses these issues in the computer science classroom, as well as society more broadly, developing critical consciousness of computer science and society. Recommended: previous coursework in computer programming. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 577 EDTEP 580 Teaching English and Language Arts in Secondary School I (5-) Teaching of English and language arts in middle, junior, or senior high school. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 580 EDTEP 581 Teaching English and Language Arts in Secondary School II (-3) Teaching of English and language arts in middle, junior, or senior high school. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 581 EDTEP 582 Teaching Mathematics in the Secondary School I (5-) Teaching of mathematics in middle, junior, or senior high school. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 582 EDTEP 583 Teaching Mathematics in the Secondary School II (-3) Teaching of mathematics in middle, junior, or senior high school. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 583 EDTEP 584 Teaching Social Studies in the Secondary School I (5-) Developing, teaching, and evaluating social studies courses on the middle, junior, and senior high school levels. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 584 EDTEP 585 Teaching Social Studies in the Secondary School II (-3) Developing, teaching, and evaluating social studies courses on the middle, junior, and senior high school levels. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 585 EDTEP 586 Teaching Science in the Secondary School I (5-) Teaching of science in middle, junior, or senior high school. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 586 EDTEP 587 Teaching Science in the Secondary School II (-3) Teaching of science in middle, junior, or senior high school. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 587 EDTEP 588 Teaching World Languages I (5-) Introduction to currently used foreign language teaching methods and approaches, including learning and teaching strategies and techniques for the four skills - reading, writing, speaking, listening - and culture. Current and future trends in pedagogy and technology. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 588 EDTEP 589 Teaching World Languages II (-3) Introduction to currently used foreign language teaching methods and approaches, including learning and teaching strategies and techniques for the four skills - reading, writing, speaking, listening - and culture. Current and future trends in pedagogy and technology. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 589 EDTEP 590 Teaching Computer Science in Secondary Schools (3) Skills in developing, rehearsing, enacting, and reflecting upon developmentally appropriate computer science lesson and unit plans. Students write learning objectives that consider prior knowledge and specific needs of a diversity of learners, developing skills to deconstruct and analyze lessons and plan the scope and sequence of longer units of study. Draws upon culturally relevant computing, project-based learning, and critical consciousness. Recommended: previous coursework in computer programming; and completion of other EDTEP methods courses. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 590 EDTEP 591 First Quarter Field Experience - Secondary (2-5, max. 10) Field experience accompanying the first quarter of study in the Secondary Teacher Education Program. Observe and assist weekly during the quarter in supervised school placements. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 591 EDTEP 592 Second Quarter Field Experience - Secondary (2-5, max. 10) Field experience accompanying the second quarter of study in the Secondary Teacher Education Program. Supervised placements in summer school program. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 592 EDTEP 593 Third Quarter Field Experience - Secondary (2-5, max. 10) Field experience accompanying third quarter of study in Secondary Teacher Education Program. Four weeks full-time plus daily part-time in supervised school placements. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 593 EDTEP 595 Capstone Project: Tool for Reflection - Secondary ([1-3]-, max. 3) Group discussions fostering integration of coursework, field experience, and teaching experiences through documentation and reflection on student teaching experiences. Using certification standards for teachers, students illustrate their learning through multiple forms of evidence. Final capstone project is presented to an audience. Prerequisite: secondary TEP student. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 595 EDTEP 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Registration must be accompanied by a study prospectus endorsed by a Director of Teacher Education and the faculty adviser for the work proposed. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 600 EDTEP 601 Fourth Quarter Field Experience (2-10, max. 15) Field experience during the fourth quarter of study in a Teacher Education Program. Full-time student teaching in supervised school placements. Prerequisite: TEP student. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 601 EDTEP 602 Field Experience Computer Science - Secondary (5) Practice teaching computer science in a supervised middle or high school placement in partner schools and districts who are working to diversify the teaching field. Candidates critique their own practices and receive feedback on ways to align their practices with equity and justice teaching pedagogy. Recommended: prior teaching experience, either through prior field placements or as an in-service teacher. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDTEP 602 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022