Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Become a Student Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Become a Student Building on a legacy of academic excellence, our programs educate and train the public health leaders of tomorrow. Ready to think broadly and act collaboratively? Committed to being part of the solution? Launch your future at Columbia. Request More Information. new-york-washington-heights-campus-1500.jpg The Office of Admissions and Financial Aid Is Hybrid The Office of Admissions and Financial Aid continues to have limited access to our phones. If you need to contact our team, please email ph-admit@columbia.edu morningside_provost.jpg Test Scores are optional for 2021/22 Application Cycle In effort to support our applicants during the COVID-19 Pandemic, standardized test scores for applications to the 2021-2022 academic year are optional for all master’s degree programs. Read More Apply_financialaid.jpg Admissions and Financial Aid Appointments The Office of Admissions and Financial Aid is here to guide you, from the beginning of your interest in our programs, through the application process. Appointments with enrollment and financial aid advisors are held Monday through Friday from 9:30-5:30pm ET. Read More ts-479480338-2016.jpg The Mailman Difference Since 1922, we have educated public health leaders, advanced groundbreaking discoveries, and delivered innovative solutions to protect and improve health of people everywhere. We weave together education, science, and social justice to address health disparities and advance health equity around the world. Read More 044-2016.jpg Learn Find out about application deadlines, tuition and fees, financial aid, and how to plan a visit. Read More lab-1500x632-9.jpg Degrees Our school offers innovative and interdisciplinary paths to pursue your public health education. You can pursue a degree in a range of formats, including two-year full-time or one-year accelerated programs, dual-degrees, and part-time programs. Read More 019-2016.jpg Student Voices Our talented students draw on their diverse backgrounds when developing the expertise needed to excel in the rapidly evolving field of public health. Share some of their experiences in their own words. Read More Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Our Faculty "There's an enthusiasm about learning, says Prof. Jeff Goldsmith,"and that really contributes to a sense of community." Watch Now Our Vision The Mailman School offers a full range of programs and degrees in public health. Read through our overview to to learn more. View now. Global Students The Mailman School is committed to welcoming students from all around the world to pursue a degree in public health. Learn more. Close Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers