Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Population Studies and Training Center Research Themes Project Categories Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Undergraduates Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities 2022 Postdoctoral Fellowship Manager of Communications and Outreach Postdoctoral Research Associate in Population Studies Summer 2021 Proctorship Program for predocs External Funding Research Themes Children, Families, and Health Social Foundations of Health Disparities Migration and Urbanization Population, Development, and Environment Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Social Inequalities Funding Progressivity, COVID-19, and Inequality of School Resources by Race and SES How Changing Neighborhood and School Contexts Shape Mental Health and Educational Attainment from Childhood to Early Adulthood Project Categories Rhode Island Domestic International Research to Policy Spatial Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates NICHD Postdoctoral Fellows Predoctoral Trainees NICHD Predoctoral Fellows Past NICHD Fellows Admission and Requirements Funding Opportunities Workshops Predoctoral Training Program Application 2021-22 Undergraduates Migration Studies Certificate PSTC Undergraduate Fellows Program Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Migration Studies Initiative About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Remembering Sidney Goldstein Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities 2022 Postdoctoral Fellowship Manager of Communications and Outreach Postdoctoral Research Associate in Population Studies Summer 2021 Proctorship Program for predocs External Funding PSTC 2022 Postdoctoral Fellowship The Population Studies and Training Center (PSTC) at Brown University invites applications for a two-year Postdoctoral Fellow to start on or around July 1, 2022. This position is sponsored by the NIH and is contingent on continued funding. The initial term of appointment is one year, but reappointment for a second year is expected, subject to good performance. The PSTC builds scientific understanding of local, national, and global population challenges and their implications for health and well-being. Research at the PSTC is distinguished by its commitment for collaboration across disciplinary and institutional boundaries as well as its strong portfolio of global research. PSTC focuses on demographic research in six main areas: children, families, and health; migration and urbanization; population and environment; demographic change and global development; reproductive health and HIV/AIDS; and social inequalities. Potential applicants are encouraged to consult the PSTC website to learn of research activities, intra-institutional links, and faculty affiliate interests. We also welcome applicants with financial support from other sources, including NIH T32 Individual Postdoctoral Fellowship. Postdoctoral Fellows are expected to spend part of their time working independently and part of their time working collaboratively with one or more mentors among our faculty affiliates. In addition, Postdoctoral Fellows are expected to coordinate or participate in relevant working groups, regularly attend the weekly PSTC Colloquia and other PSTC workshops and mentoring activities, present their work to the PSTC community, present research at the Population Association of America (PAA) annual meetings, and submit one or more articles for publication. They are encouraged to prepare grant applications. We request that applicants visit our PSTC faculty page and identify one or two potential faculty mentors; however, applicants do not need to contact potential mentors prior to submitting an application. Diversity, equity and inclusion are integral to the commitment of the Population Studies and Training Center and Brown University. Accordingly, PSTC seeks qualified candidates who can contribute to racial equity, diversity and inclusion in their scholarship and professional activities. Further, the PSTC is keenly interested in diversifying higher education and encourages applications from historically underrepresented groups in higher education. Qualifications NIH requires that applicants be citizens or permanent residents of the United States at the time of application. Applicants must have a Ph.D. in anthropology, economics, sociology, demography, or a related social science discipline at time of appointment. Application Instructions Apply here online via Interfolio. Screening of applications will begin on December 3, 2021, and will continue until the position is filled. Applicants should provide CV, 2 example(s) of written work, and a cover letter with the following information: background, research interests, and plans, commitment to diversity and inclusion, 1 or 2 anticipated PSTC faculty mentor(s), and future employment goals. Please have three letters of recommendation submitted online through interfolio. Contact Meaghan Hanrahan ([email protected]) with any questions. Back to top Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Population Studies and Training Center Population Studies and Training Center Brown University Box 1836 68 Waterman St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2668 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat