Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF PHARMACY DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY HEALTH ECONOMIC OUTCOMES RESEARCH Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 HEOR 500 Introduction to Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research (2) Provides an introduction to economic evaluation and outcomes research related to pharmaceuticals and other healthcare technologies. Covers the methods of cost-effectiveness analysis and quality of life evaluation, and their use in real-world decision-making. View course details in MyPlan: HEOR 500 HEOR 505 Managed Care Pharmacy: Principles and Practice (2) Surveys the activities, tactics, and strategies used by managed care to deliver pharmacy services to their members. Includes: formulary development, clinical improvement programs, quality improvement measures, regulatory activities, contracting with pharmaceutical manufacturers, network management, financial issues, sales and marketing, and provider relations. Class 2, 3, and 4 PharmD students. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HEOR 505 HEOR 510 Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis (2) Provides students an overview of best practices to conduct a systematic review of an intervention; then analyzing data through meta-analytic methods. Classroom activities solidify topics covered in lectures and readings. Collaboration with another student to complete a systematic review. Recommended: a basic understanding of statistics and a background in evidence-based medicine. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HEOR 510 HEOR 520 Pharmacoepidemiology (3) Overview of pharmacoepidemiology including drug development and approval; application of epidemiologic methods to study drug safety and effectiveness; exploration of the interplay between research and public policy; introduction to resources for information about drugs; introduction to pharmacology principles pertinent to pharmacoepidemiology. Prerequisite: Health Sciences graduate student; either EPI 511 or both EPI 512 and EPI 513. Offered: jointly with EPI 533. View course details in MyPlan: HEOR 520 HEOR 530 Economic Evaluation in Health and Medicine (3) Sean D Sullivan Methods and techniques for evaluating costs and cost-effectiveness of health, medical, and pharmaceutical interventions. Emphasis on economic evaluation, decision analysis, and modeling techniques for resource allocation and decision making. Applications to technology assessment, health policy, clinical practice, and resource allocation. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HEOR 530 HEOR 531 Assessing Outcomes in Health and Medicine (3) Concepts and methods for developing and using patient-reported outcomes in health and medicine. Emphasis on patient self-reported health status and quality of life. Qualitative research and psychometric methods applied to health outcomes assessment and all applications. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with HSERV 584; W. View course details in MyPlan: HEOR 531 HEOR 532 Advanced Methods in Economic and Outcomes Evaluation in Health and Medicine (3) Covers advanced methods and techniques for evaluating costs, outcomes, and cost-effectiveness of health, medical, and pharmaceutical interventions. Topics include: network meta-analysis, Markov modeling, probabilistic sensitivity analysis, value of information analysis, utility mapping, conjoint analysis, and budget impact analysis. Prerequisite: either HEOR 530 or PHARM 534; and either HEOR 531/HSERV 584 or PHARM 535/HSERV 584, or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HEOR 532 HEOR 540 Health Economics (3) Applies microeconomics principles and models to understand the nature of healthcare markets and systems. Includes a wide range of health sector activities and policy issues studied by applying rigorous economic analytical tools coupled with review of key econometric and empirical analysis. Prerequisite: introductory coursework in microeconomic principles and basic statistics. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HEOR 540 HEOR 545 Methods in Pharmaceutical Policy Analysis (4) Introduction to the tools used in and the framework and dominant contexts for pharmaceuticals policy development and analysis. Methods reviewed in a series of sessions presenting a specific method and case analyses involving pharmaceuticals development. Project and in-class presentation required. View course details in MyPlan: HEOR 545 HEOR 550 Bayesian Biostatistics (3) Introduction to Bayesian methods for data analysis; Bayesian reasoning, prior elicitation, inference and decision making, and computation applied to biomedical research. Prerequisite: any course in statistics at the 400-level or higher or instructor's permission. Offered: jointly with BIOST 526/EPI 540; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HEOR 550 HEOR 551 Advanced Health Services Research Methods III: Casual Inference Using Observational Data ([4/5]-) Focuses on reviewing statistical methods developed for "micro" (individual-level) data on behavior (choices or exposures) and outcomes in order to make casual inference about the role of a choice or an exposure on outcomes. Prerequisite: either HSERV 523, BIOST 511, BIOST 512, BIOST 513, or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with HSERV 525. View course details in MyPlan: HEOR 551 HEOR 597 Graduate Seminar (1, max. 24) Interactive discussion of topical issues, methods, or analytic techniques. Topics vary. Prerequisite: graduate program student. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: HEOR 597 HEOR 598 Program in Health Economics and Outcomes Research Methodologies Seminar (1, max. 12) Research seminar on topics in health economics and outcomes research methodologies Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: HEOR 598 HEOR 599 Independent Research (1-6, max. 24) Provides for independent study or project-based learning in health economics and outcomes research undertaken under the individual direction of a faculty member Prerequisite: permission of instructor; recommended: PHARM 520 or PHRMCY 514. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: HEOR 599 HEOR 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: HEOR 600 HEOR 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: HEOR 700 HEOR 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: HEOR 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022