Skip to main content Skip to main navigation U.S. Army-Baylor Sports PT, West Point Graduate School Menu Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Contact Us 2018 Annual Report Baylor > Graduate School > Home Doctor of Science in Physical Therapy Baylor University - Keller Army Community Hospital Division 1 Sports Physical Therapy Fellowship Keller Army Hospital-Arvin Sports Physical Therapy Clinic West Point, NY 10996 Program Values Compassion Attitude Respect Enthusiasm Professionalism Teamwork Mission Statement The mission of the Sports Medicine-Physical Therapy Doctoral Program is to produce clinical scientists to better serve Military Health System beneficiaries and the physical therapy profession. Our focus is accomplished through two primary purposes. The first is to produce graduates with expertise in evidenced based primary care for preventing, examining, diagnosing, and managing a variety of complex orthopaedic and sports injuries. The second is to ensure competency in sports medicine research design, production, analysis, and critical review. The fellowship provides military physical therapists an opportunity to develop advanced competencies in triage and management of acute sports injuries while at the United States Military Academy, West Point, NY. Graduates will use these same competencies to return injured soldiers, sailors, and airmen to a high level of military technical and tactical readiness. The concepts for managing injured elite athletes and returning them to the playing field as quickly and safely as possible shares the same common goal of returning injured service members to their units in garrison or combat, thereby preparing fellows for: “Sports Medicine on the Battlefield… operational readiness through injury prevention and early intervention” Vision Statement Our vision is to set the standard for post-professional sports medicine-physical therapy doctoral education through the scholarly pursuit of academic, research and clinical excellence. We will achieve our vision by developing clinical scientists who are prepared to conduct advanced scientific research, as well as provide quality primary care for musculoskeletal injuries in the clinic and on the field. Our graduates as clinical scientists will become the future leaders and mentors for the profession of Physical Therapy. "On the fields of friendly strife are sown the seeds that upon other fields on other days will bear the fruits of victory" - Gen. Douglas MacArthur Home Background & History Curriculum Research Activity Grant Funding and Publications Facilities & Resources Faculty Program Outcomes Admissions Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students U.S. Army-Baylor Sports PT, West Point Facebook Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Background & History Curriculum Research Activity Grant Funding and Publications Facilities & Resources Faculty Program Outcomes Admissions