Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Human Resources Retirement Retirement Medicare Social Security Working at SMU Working at SMU Staff Careers Faculty Careers Temporary Jobs Student Jobs Internal Applicant Get Involved Living In Dallas Benefits & Wellness Benefits & Wellness Health and Other Benefits Wellness Information Learning & Development Learning & Development Total Orientation Process for New Employees On-Demand Learning Professional Development Manager Development Workshops Manager Orientation Enrollment Instructions Cancel Enrollment or Switch Sessions Customized Learning Experiences Consultation FAQ for the LawRoom Training Tutorials Workshop Facilitators HR Training Room Linked-In Learning Courses Manager Lunch and Learn Series SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Continuing Education Credits/Units - Proof of Attendance Reference Library Training Summary Resources Resources New Employee Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Work-Life Resources Manager Resources Retiree Resources Safety at SMU SMU's Mission and Code of Ethics Forms Forms All HR Forms & Resources Benefits Compensation General HR Forms Exiting SMU Performance Review Employee Recognition Talent Acquisition and Management ☰ Human Resources Human Resources Learning & Development Total Orientation Process (TOP) Total Orientation Process for New Employees Staff, Faculty, and Post-Doctoral Fellows Overview Staff Faculty Post-Doctoral Fellows New Manager Orientation Staff, Faculty, and Post-Doctoral Fellows The Total Orientation Process (TOP) for new employees (Staff, Faculty and Post-Doctoral Fellows) is the best way for newcomers to SMU to get to know the University and become familiar with its' many resources. The orientation process begins with the new employee online tutorial, which provides an overview of the University's history and culture, along with summaries of the many benefits our staff and faculty enjoy. This tutorial is customized with a specific version available for staff, faculty and post-doctoral fellows. SMU welcomes many students, employees, and visitors to campus every day and seeks to maintain an inviting, safe, and secure environment for those working on campus or engaged in SMU-sponsored activities. To this end, new employee required training includes two online tutorials: Stop Harassment and Discrimination and Eliminate Campus Sexual Violence. These tutorials help all our new employees understand their roles in maintaining a respectful and productive workplace. Additionally, SMU has adopted a Protection of Minors Policy to promote the well-being and safety of minors who participate in programs or activities run by or associated with SMU. Per the policy, all employees are required to complete the training on SMU Blackboard. For more information refer to the specific employee roles in the tabs above. Staff New staff members typically spend their first morning in Human Resources completing new employee and payroll paperwork, learning about benefits enrollment, obtaining an SMU identification card and parking sticker. Additional information regarding the total orientation process is reviewed to support the employee through the 90-day probationary period and beyond. The following on-line courses are required for all new employees (Staff, Faculty and Post-Doctoral Fellows). Harassment and Discrimination PreventionTutorial SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Tutorial Data Security and Privacy In addition, based on your job responsibilities, you may be assigned other training by HR, Police Dept, or Risk Management. FAQ for LawRoom, SMU's training vendor New Staff Resources New Staff Orientation Checklist 90 Day Performance Review For those employees who are required to report their time: TIMEaccess Training for new employees Faculty New faculty will receive information from the Provost's office and their department administration. After accepting your new faculty contract, HR will send instructions for completing new hire paperwork prior to arriving on campus and registration instructions for New Employee Orientation (HR/Benefits Orientation) to attend upon arriving to campus. New faculty can contact HR directly to initiate the onboarding process at NewFaculty@smu.edu. In addition, new faculty are expected to attend the Teaching Effectiveness Symposium offered in August prior to the start of the semester. Your department will provide information regarding the date and time. The following on-line tutorials are required for all new employees (Staff, Faculty and Post-Doctoral Fellows). You will be notified by the LawRoom, SMU's training vendor, when the training is available. New Faculty are asked to complete the elements of their within their first 90 days of employment. Harassment and Discrimination Prevention Tutorial SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Tutorial Data Security and Privacy In addition, based on your job responsibilities, you may be assigned additional training by HR, Police Dept, or Risk Management. FAQ for LawRoom, SMU's training vendor New Faculty Resources Human Resources New Faculty Orientation Checklist Provost Office Teaching Effectiveness Symposium * New Faculty Teaching Excellence Program New Faculty Orientation * *New faculty are expected to attend both these programs prior to the start of the year. The Center for Teaching Excellence will provide additional information directly. Post-Doctoral Fellows Post-doctoral fellows complete the online tutorials, the Blackboard course, and any additional orientation required by their school. The following on-line courses are required for all new employees (Staff, Faculty and Post-Doctoral Fellows). You will be notified by LawRoom, SMU's training vendor, via email when the training is available. Harassment and Discrimination Prevention Tutorial SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Tutorial Data Security and Privacy In additional, based on your job responsibilities, you may be assigned additional training by HR, Police Dept, or Risk Management. FAQ for LawRoom, SMU's training vendor New Post-Doctorate Fellow Resources New Post Doc Orientation Checklist New Manager Orientation New employees who are entering the University in a managerial position, or who are promoted to a managerial role, will also be required to complete New Manager Orientaiton within their first year. This series of 3 required and 3 elective workshops will futher support managers in their new roles by providing an overview of University resources and processes. You will receive an email approximately two weeks after your first day or promotion with more information and enrollment instructions. New Manager Resources Manager Orientation Manager Orientation Workshops/Class Schedules For managers of exempt and/or non-exempt employees: TimeAccess Training for Managers Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share