Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Population Studies and Training Center Research Themes Project Categories Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees NICHD Predoctoral Fellows Admission and Requirements Funding Opportunities Workshops Predoctoral Training Program Application 2021-22 Undergraduates Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities External Funding Research Themes Children, Families, and Health Social Foundations of Health Disparities Migration and Urbanization Population, Development, and Environment Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Social Inequalities Funding Progressivity, COVID-19, and Inequality of School Resources by Race and SES How Changing Neighborhood and School Contexts Shape Mental Health and Educational Attainment from Childhood to Early Adulthood Project Categories Rhode Island Domestic International Research to Policy Spatial Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates NICHD Postdoctoral Fellows Predoctoral Trainees NICHD Predoctoral Fellows Past NICHD Fellows Admission and Requirements Funding Opportunities Workshops Predoctoral Training Program Application 2021-22 Undergraduates Migration Studies Certificate PSTC Undergraduate Fellows Program Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Migration Studies Initiative About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Remembering Sidney Goldstein Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities 2022 Postdoctoral Fellowship Manager of Communications and Outreach Postdoctoral Research Associate in Population Studies Summer 2021 Proctorship Program for predocs External Funding Predoctoral Training Program Application 2021-22 The PSTC provides a demography training program for predoctoral graduate students in affiliated departments including Anthropology, Economics, Sociology, and Public Health. Affiliation provides mentorship and funding opportunities for research and fieldwork. The training program is now accepting applications and re-applications for the 2021-22 academic year. Interested students must apply for PSTC affiliation and fill out the application or reapplication form. Current trainees must reapply and update the application or reapplication form you filled out last year. Please make sure that you upload your updated Curriculum Vitae. The website is https://s4.ad.brown.edu/node/pstc (please use Google Chrome for the best experience). In addition, the PSTC offers two highly selective fellowships each year. The NICHD T32 Fellowship provides predoctoral trainees who are U.S. citizens or permanent residents with extensive funding and support by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) for a term of one year. The International Fellowship is available to predoctoral international trainees and offers funding and support for one year via the Graduate School, as part of the NIH training grant. Those who are interested in either fellowship must complete the fellowship form in addition to their application or reapplication. Please ask your PSTC mentor to submit a letter at https://s4.ad.brown.edu/node/pstc under the "Mentor" tab in support of your fellowship application. Please inform your mentor that fellowship awards are competitive and the letter should be detailed. Program and fellowship (re)applications (as well as the letter of recommendation) are due by 5 pm Monday, March 29. As the system is still undergoing testing, please send a confirmation email to the system administrator by clicking on [email protected] at the bottom of the form, after you submit the application. If you have difficulties using the system, please contact the system administrator. Back to top Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Population Studies and Training Center Population Studies and Training Center Brown University Box 1836 68 Waterman St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2668 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat