Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Computer Science Ph.D. school Graduate School department Computer Science Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location Working with faculty who are leaders in the field, our Ph.D. students conduct cutting-edge research, earning prestigious fellowships and awards. After graduation, they contribute widely to science, learning, culture and their communities. Brown's Computer Science Ph.D. program offers one of the best environments for research and education in computer science. The faculty, consisting of world leaders in their research areas, has grown steadily in number over the years. The program offers a wide variety of research options in both established and emerging areas of the discipline, and seeks out Brown's many opportunities for multidisciplinary research. Ph.D. candidates can earn a master's degree on the way to completing the Ph.D., but students admitted for a terminal master's degree cannot automatically transition to Ph.D. candidacy. Additional Resources The Department of Computer Science provides leading–edge computing technology to all its students. PhD students' offices are very similar to those of faculty, with windows overlooking the campus and surrounding area. Students also have access to compute clusters and labs. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 15, 2021 Completion Requirements Eight courses satisfying distribution requirements, major and minor course sequences, programming comprehensive examination and research project by the end of the second year in residence, dissertation proposal, and dissertation. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Ugur Cetintemel ugur_cetintemel@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies David Laidlaw david_laidlaw@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Computer Science Mailing Address Brown University Box 1910 gradinfo@cs.brown.edu 401-863-7600 Visit the Department of Computer Science Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Computer Science Open details for Computer Science Bookmark this Page