Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Prior Learning Credit By Exam Credit By Portfolio Assessment Licenses & Certificates Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact PreviousNext Take Action Additional Means of Earning Credits Testing Center Advanced Placement ELC - Experiential Learning Credit Home Prior Learning Prior Learning Assessment (PLA) What is PLA? The University of Memphis recognizes that learning occurs in many places. Therefore, we allow students to earn credit for prior learning by demonstrating college-level knowledge they have gained outside the classroom using a variety of methods known as Prior Learning Assessment (PLA) outlined below. Credit By Exam Credit by examination is awarded based upon standardized examinations and upon examinations administered by departments of the University for specific courses and for placement. CLEP - The University of Memphis awards credit for standardized examinations of the College-Level Examination Program of the College Board. Credit awarded is based upon credit recommendations and minimum scores recommended by the American Council on Education. For fees, testing dates and a list of exam options Testing Center. DSST -The University of Memphis awards credit for standardized examinations of the DANTES Subject Standardized Tests. Credit awarded is based upon credit recommendations and minimum scores recommended by the American Council on Education. For fees, testing dates and for a list of exam options contact the Testing Center. Departmental Examinations - Almost all courses in the undergraduate curriculum with the exception of those with laboratory, research, or performance requirements, are available for credit by examination. For more information contact the appropriate college/department. Advanced Placement (AP) - The University of Memphis participates in the Advanced Placement Program of the College Board. Credit is awarded scores of 3, 4, or 5. For more information Click Here. International Baccalaureate - The University of Memphis recognizes students' participation in the International Baccalaureate Program and awards college credit for completion of selected courses. Information on credit awarded is available by clicking here. Credit By Portfolio Assessment Students without pre-assessed learning experiences are able to seek academic credits by developing a portfolio. The portfolio serves as a reflective narrative of the student's previous learning experiences and includes supporting documentation. For additional information on portfolio assessment Click Here. Licenses & Certificates ELC Pre - Assessed - Certain professional and standardized training, licensure, and certification experiences whose content is equivalent to offerings from the UofM have been evaluated by faculty for credit hours. Examples of such education credit include Microsoft Certifications and Paramedics License. To review the current list of evaluated experiences, click here. Military Training and Experience An official evaluation of armed services instruction is made after a student is admitted to the university. Credit awarded for completion of services schools will be governed by recommendations at the baccalaureate level from the current Guide to the Evaluation of Educational Experience in the Armed Services from the American Council on Education. For more information military guide Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.