COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Creative Writing, Master's Master'sCreative Writing All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences English Language and Literature - Creative Writing The Master of Fine Arts (MFA) in creative writing program at Wichita State University is the twelfth oldest in the nation and is known for producing well-trained writers—and well-prepared teachers of writing and literature. As an MFA creative writing student, you'll receive financial support through graduate teaching assistantships and fellowships which cover your tuition and provide a stipend. Learn how creative writing is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To start the admission process, you must: Be admitted to WSU's Graduate School Have a minimum 3.0 GPA in previous English coursework Submit a sample of original writing in literary fiction (approximately 20 pages) or poetry (about six poems) Admission requirements Curriculum First, you'll develop a plan of study based on your interests and career plans. Then you'll take core courses, which may include studies in fiction, poetry and drama, among others. To complete the MFA, you'll also take a comprehensive exam and complete a final writing project of publishable quality. View the curriculum Careers A degree in creative writing from Wichita State will equip you with skills that lead to diverse career options. Writers are employed throughout the public and private sectors—from advertising agencies and the film industry to non-profits and academia. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs English (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©