Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Neurology Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Alzheimer's Epilepsy Parkinson's Stroke Top Stories Missing Link Between Alzheimer’s and Vascular Disease Found? A gene called FMNL2 may explain why people with hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, or obesity have a greater risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Topic Alzheimer's Transient Ischemic Attacks May Be Brief But Need Serious Attention A transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a stroke that usually lasts under five minutes and resolves on its own, but just because the symptoms disappear, does not mean a TIA should be ignored. New Initiative to Develop Personalized Therapies for People with Rare Genetic Forms of ALS A new initiative led by Columbia University and the n-Lorem Foundation will develop personalized therapies for individuals with "nano-rare" genetic forms of ALS and treat them for free, for life. Topic Campus News Genetic Testing for Parkinson’s Disease: What You Need to Know Parkinson’s patients and their families are increasingly turning to genetic testing to learn more about their disease or risk of passing it on. But testing is complex, and counseling is advised. Topic Campus News Latest News For Parkinson’s Patients, Genetic Testing May Open Possibilities August 15, 2019 With several targeted Parkinson’s disease drugs entering clinical trials, a new genetic testing and counseling program may help identify patients who qualify for enrollment. Topic Parkinson's PTSD After Cardiac Arrest Predicts More Heart Trouble March 20, 2019 Survivors of cardiac arrest are more likely to experience further heart trouble if they have symptoms of PTSD, according to a new study from researchers at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Topic Research How Exercise May Protect Against Alzheimer’s February 8, 2019 A hormone called irisin–produced during exercise–may protect neurons against Alzheimer’s disease. Topic Alzheimer's Aerobic Exercise Improves Cognition, Even In Young Adults January 31, 2019 Aerobic exercise is known to improve cognition in the elderly; a new Columbia study shows it’s good for adults as young as 20. Topic Research Aspirin May Lower Stroke Risk in Women with History of Preeclampsia January 22, 2019 A new study by Columbia researchers suggests aspirin may lower stroke risk among middle-aged women with a history of preeclampsia. Topic Stroke New Smart Helmet Could Spot Concussions in Real Time December 28, 2018 Columbia neurologists and engineers are developing what would be the first wearable diagnostic device for traumatic brain injury. Topic Research Neurons with Good Housekeeping Are Protected from Alzheimer’s December 17, 2018 A new study shows how cellular “housekeeping” protects some neurons against the toxic proteins of Alzheimer’s disease and suggests new treatment possibilities. Topic Alzheimer's Innovative Engine: Medical Research By Sharon Tregaskis November 28, 2018 Increasingly, transformative therapies are being launched via startups emerging from university research labs, including those at Columbia’s Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. Topic Research Untangling Alzheimer's Disease November 26, 2018 Scientists initially believed Alzheimer's would be a simple, straightforward problem to solve, but now Columbia researchers are looking for unusual and untried solutions. Topic Alzheimer's New Program Hopes to Make Early Detection and Treatment of ALS a Reality November 19, 2018 A new program at Columbia is looking for earlier signs of ALS so that future treatments can be delivered before extensive neurological damage occurs. Topic Research Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top