Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of the President Menu Search TTU Administration Office of the President Athletic Council By-Laws ARTICLE I: Charge Pursuant to Texas Tech University Board of Regents Policy 11.02, the Athletic Council is to advise the President of Texas Tech University on matters relating to the development and supervision of intercollegiate athletic programs. The Athletic Council shall: Review and make recommendations to the President on any matters pertaining to the enforcement of and compliance with rules and regulations established by any athletic conference or national association in which the University holds membership. Review and make recommendations to the President on any pertinent matters related to the University's intercollegiate athletic program. The Athletic Council shall not have final authority to direct, control, or supervise the operation or activities of the Department of Athletics or intercollegiate athletic programs of the University. ARTICLE II: Membership The majority of the members of the Athletic Council shall be tenured faculty. All members are expected to have demonstrated a consistent interest in and support for a strong intercollegiate athletics program and in maintaining a program of highest integrity and academic excellence. Section 1. The Athletic Council shall consist of eleven (11) voting members comprised as follows: Six (6) members shall be appointed from the faculty by the President. Three (3) members shall be appointed by the President from outside the faculty and the administration of the University. One (1) member of the Council shall be appointed by the Texas Tech Alumni Association. One (1) member of the Council shall be a current member of the student body at Texas Tech, appointed by the Texas Tech Student Government Association. Section 2. The following policies also apply to membership of the Athletic Council: No currently serving member of the Board of Regents shall be appointed to the Council. Except as noted elsewhere in the Bylaws, all appointments are made by the President of the University. All appointees shall be for three-year terms except for the student member who will serve a one year term. The President may renew or extend a member's appointment. Members shall continue to perform their responsibilities until a replacement is in place. Section 3. Ex - Officio members of the council shall include the following: The designated representative of the President of the University. The Faculty Athletics Representative to the NCAA and Big 12 conference. The Director of Intercollegiate Athletics. The Senior Woman Administrator. The Senior Associate Athletic Director – Compliance. The Deputy Athletic Director The Senior Associate Athletic Director – Academics The Senior Associate Athletic Director – Sports Medicine The Senior Associate Athletic Director – Chief Financial Office A Student-Athlete Advisory Committee Member / or Student-Athlete selected by the Athletic Director Ex-officio members shall not have voting privileges on matters under consideration or review by the Council. Section 4. All members of the Athletic Council serve at the pleasure of the President. The President may remove a member of the Council for actions that are inconsistent with University policies. Section 5. All voting and Ex-Officio members shall be provided notice of Athletic Council meetings. ARTICLE III: Leadership Section 1. The sole officer of the Council shall be the Chair. Section 2. The President of the University shall appoint the Chair from among the faculty members who serve on the Council. Section 3. .The duties of the Chair shall be those customarily assigned to such office and such other duties as may be hereinafter designated. ARTICLE IV: Meetings Section 1. Meetings of the Athletic Council shall be held four times per year or at the call of the chair. Section 2. Special meetings may be called at any time by the Chair or upon the request of four (4) or more Council members after giving notice to the voting and Ex-Officio members of not less than twenty-four hours in advance or the time set for the call meeting. The notice shall be confirmed in writing. ARTICLE V: Duties and Responsibilities The objective of the Athletic Council shall be to assist the President and the Athletic Department in the promotion and oversight of the University's intercollegiate athletic program. The University is committed to academic and athletic integrity, equity, and excellence. The Athletic Council seeks to promote that commitment by reviewing and recommending policy, in full cooperation with the Athletic Department, within the resources of the University and the rules and regulations of the University, Big 12 Conference, and NCAA. The specific duties and responsibilities of the Athletic Council shall include but not be limited to: recommending or reviewing such policies, rules, and regulations as are necessary for the promotion and oversight of the University's intercollegiate athletics program. These may address such topics as: Academic Integrity, NCAA Compliance, Fiscal Integrity, and Student-Athlete Health and Well-Being. ARTICLE VI: Committees and their Duties Section 1. The Chair may designate committees as appropriate to meet the charge above. ARTICLE VII: Amending the Bylaws Section 1. Amendment or revision of the Bylaws may be made upon the suggestion or recommendation of a voting member or the chair, and after having been disseminated in writing at least 72 hours prior to a regularly called meeting and upon a two-thirds affirmative vote of the voting members of the Council. Amended: November 5, 1998, October 2000, February 2002, August 21, 2002, August 12, 2003, February 27, 2008, April 18, 2011, February 15, 2019 Athletic Council Members Dr. Raegan Higgins College of Arts and Sciences Dr. Todd Chambers Journalism and Electronic Media College of Media and Communication Faisal Al-Hmoud President, Student Government Association Rick Dykes Community Member Nancy Neal Community Member Toby Cecil Community Member Carey Hobbs Texas Tech Alumni Association Dr. Jeff Mercer, Chair Rawls College of Business Dr. Darryl James Department of Mechanical Engineering Dr. Genevieve Durham DeCesaro J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Dr. Aliza Wong Honors College Ex-Officio Members: Kirby Hocutt Director of Intercollegiate Athletics Department of Athletics Brian Shannon Faculty Athletic Representative to the NCAA & Big 12 School of Law Jennifer Brashear Senior Associate Director of Intercollegiate Athletics – Compliance Department of Athletics Jonathan Botros Senior Associate Athletic Director – Chief Financial Officer, Department of Athletics Audrey Tuttle Student Athlete, Volleyball Ronald Phillips Chief Compliance and Security Officer Judi Henry Executive Senior Associate Athletic Director and Senior Woman Administrator Department of Athletics Tony Hernandez Deputy Athletic Director, Department of Athletics Greg Glaus Senior Associate Athletic Director – Academics, Department of Athletics Grant Stovall Senior Associate Athletic Director – Sports Medicine, Department of Athletics Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Office of the President Address 115 Administration Building, Box 42005, Lubbock, Texas 79409-2005 Phone 806-742-2121 Fax 806-742-2138 Email pres.webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityDec 23, 2021 8:21 AM Office of the President About the Office Office of the President About the Office Back Councils Office of the President About the Office Back Executive Council Advisory Council Athletic Council Gender Equity Programs Office of the President About the Office Back Congressional Internships Official Texas Tech Ornament President's Select Presidential Leadership and Globally Engaged Scholarships Presidential Excellence Awards Title IX Communications Office of the President Communications Back Presentations President's Perspective Letters / Memos 2020 President's Report Events Office of the President Back Presidential Lecture & Performance Series Lubbock Lights Top Scholars Red Raider Orientation Texas Tech Alumni Association REDRaider Talks Administration Office of the President Back Administration Office of the President Administration Back Leadership Organizational Chart Staff Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index