Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Earth Sciences About Programs Faculty Research Student Resources Career Path Make a Gift Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Earth Sciences Programs Undergraduate Students About the BAMinorCoursesAdvising4 year sequence Graduate Students About the ProgramCertificatesCoursesApplication ProcessGraduate CoordinatorProspective Students GIS Certificate About Frequently Asked Questions SAGE Laboratory Testimonials Minor in Earth Sciences Take Action Apply Now! News and Colloquium Field Activities Contact Us Home Earth Sciences Earth Sciences Programs Student Testimonials What Our Students Are Saying... Kat Consola MA Candidate | University of Memphis Department of Art | Art History Concentration: Egyptian Art and Archaeology The GIS certificate program at the University of Memphis is a wonderful option for graduate students like me. The brevity of the program allows me to finish it in time with my Master's degree (2 years), yet it is still academically challenging and thorough in scope. Having a GIS certificate under my belt will allow me more job opportunities upon graduation, since it is a versatile skill that is needed by many different types of jobs. Dr. Ozdenerol, who leads the program, has been a delightful and encouraging mentor for me and my peers. Rebecca Bingham PhD Candidate | University of Memphis Department of Earth Sciences The GIS certificate has helped me in not only my Master program, but also my PhD. As an undergraduate, I got started in learning about GIS. I began by determining home range of ornate box turtles in South Dakota. Once I began my master program at the University of Memphis, I knew I wanted to take my GIS skills to the next level. The GIS certificate program did that and so much more. I started modeling habitat suitable for the co-occurrence of two mesopredators: raccoon and Virginia opossum. The further I got in the GIS certificate and the more classes I took, I became interested in higher level GIS work. It motivated me to pursue my PhD in Earth Sciences and integrate what I had learned in my undergraduate and master career into public health as well. I am currently determining hot spots for Lyme disease incidence and trying to create risk prediction maps. These maps will be used for wildlife vaccine deployment via oral bait. From the research I have already conducted, I am also gaining collaborators from other areas. I am also working on a project with a professor from Canada on morphologic variations in Peromyscus maniculatis subspecies across North America. I would never have had this opportunity if not for the GIS certificate program. I cannot express the significance this program can play in your future. Whether preparing you for your own research, helping others with theirs, or furthering your career. It is definitely something worth pursuing. What Our Alumni Are Saying... Jacob Saboly Armed with GIS skills, Jacob found an exciting opportunity to use GIS in climatology research. He created an app that allows users to explore the Tennessee historic tornado database and discover the areas of highest risk. He was awarded a scholarship and a research fellowship because of this work. He said "Taking the online GIS courses was a turning point in my college education, as I discovered a new passion and was introduced to new, exciting career possibilities. GIS is a subject that naturally works well with online education, and the online GIS courses at Memphis were both organized and flexible, exploiting the main strengths of online education. Sylwia Bialas, St Jude Children’s Hospital A Universal Degree: When asked about her position at St. Jude Children’s Hospital, Sylwia was most impressed by GIS certificate being a “universal degree” –a degree that had application in multiple areas. Her interests is on the spatial aspects of health and illness. For example: where are diseases found? how are diseases related to the environment? and where do people go to seek health care? Geographers use a variety of tools to study these topics such as maps, spatial statistics, and Geographic Information Systems (GIS). In a GIS, the data usually include attributes, or descriptive information. For example, you may have a data set of hospitals in the US that can be mapped. The descriptive data also allows you to search and display associated attributes (e.g., number of hospital beds, types of specialized services offered, etc). In terms of analysis, a GIS offers the opportunity to use spatial data to answer questions. For example: where are disease rates higher or lower? how far is it to the nearest healthcare facility? and where can we best locate a new syringe exchange location? Jason Hodges, Director of Clinical Trials Management, Department of Hematology, St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital The GIS certificate has opened so many doors and interesting opportunities for me. When I first began the program, I was working at the Shelby County Health Department. In that capacity, I was able to apply the knowledge I was gaining in the certificate program directly to community health projects in Memphis. I assisted in mapping proximity to healthy food options, mapping chronic disease mortality by zip codes, and targeting census tracts for various public health interventions. At St. Jude, I utilized GIS to understand the distribution of patients living with sickle cell disease in the Mid-South and then begin to query how place impacted disease severity, adherence, and healthcare utilization. The use of GIS in health research is an invaluable tool, particularly when examining ways in which the social determinants of health impact populations. Miguel Rocha, Criminologist A job that is diverse: Miguel and his team never stop looking for ways to improve the efficiency of GIS in criminology. He identifies his education, specifically a thorough knowledge of GIS/spatial concepts and a solid background in criminology, as what has allowed him to have a job that is varied, diverse, and, most important, never boring. GIS allows analysts to identify hot spots, along with other trends and patterns for crime mapping. GIS is also useful for law enforcement operations, such as allocating police officers and dispatching to emergencies. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/16/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.