Jack J. Valenti School of Communication - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Jack J. Valenti School of Communication About Us Mission & History About Jack J. Valenti Facilities Advisory Council Schedule A Visit Resources Contact Us Our Team Leadership Team Our Faculty Our Staff Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Degrees Communication Studies, B.A. Health Communication, B.A. Journalism, B.A. Media Production, B.A. Strategic Communication, B.A. Academic Advising Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Program Graduate Concentrations Health Communication Public Relations Journalism and Mass Communication Global and Intercultural Communication How to Apply Frequently Asked Questions Current Students Graduate Student Handbook Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Spotlight News & Events Spotlights News Updates Invest in Us Valenti Highlights News & Events After Unanimous Vote, Jennifer Vardeman Named Valenti’s Director Adding to her years-long tenure on the school of communication’s leadership team, Vardeman to permanently take the helm September 2021. Valenti Members Demonstrate Perseverance Through Rodeo Internships The Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo internship is a Valenti student favorite. The cancelation of last year’s event took a toll on many students' learning experiences. Valenti Students Collaborate to Create COVID-19 Vaccine PSAs Fort Bend County’s Health & Human Services has enlisted the help of students from the Valenti School of Communication to raise awareness about vaccination efforts. Hollywood Director Works Virtually with the UH Film, Theater Departments on Student Film Hollywood director Micheal Grossman and media production professor Keith Houk are marking their ninth year of working together, but this year’s collaboration is far from business as usual. A Year into COVID, Valenti Faculty Lead with Compassion and Flexibility As the country laments the first anniversary of the COVID-19 pandemic, faculty and staff at the Valenti School of Communication continue to adapt their classes and teaching styles to ensure students are taken care of in the online learning environment. Madrid-Morales to Develop Online African News Database Dani Madrid-Morales, an assistant professor of journalism, has been awarded a research grant of the University of Houston Libraries’ sponsored projects program, which supports and funds University projects annually. Scholarships Academic Assistance Internships Valenti Spotlights Faculty Kelli Gifford, Lecturer From working at her local newspaper to becoming a lecturer at the Jack J. Valenti School of Communication and now also working in the health care industry, Kelli Gifford has had a remarkable journey. “I learned something new every semester, and it was exciting to see all my students grow, which increased my love for teaching,” said Gifford. Faculty Summer Harlow, Assistant Professor of Journalism (Video) After years of working as a journalist in Guatemala, El Salvador and Brazil, assistant professor of journalism Summer Harlow is using research and experiences to train the next generation. “I think that we as journalists have to put humanity first, and sometimes that means maybe having to take a stand,” said Harlow. Alumni Karli Burghoff ('18), Broadcast Journalism (Video) Broadcast journalism graduate, Karli Burghoff landed a job working as a Houston Astros Ballpark Host in June 2019. Originally a biology major, Karli says she switched her degree to one that aligned with the dream job her six-year-old self would be proud of. Student Drew Jones, Print Journalism Drew Kendall Jones is as passionate about writing as any storyteller can be and as hardworking as any professional needs to be to succeed. It has been a busy year for Drew; he’s published an article on Houston’s local scene in The Washington Post, and he spent two weeks in May reporting for The New York Times, culminating in a published article about social media’s relation to gardening. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies