Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Coronavirus COVID-19 right arrow down arrow COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics right arrow down arrow Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life right arrow down arrow Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine right arrow down arrow Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures right arrow down arrow Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Home » Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) » Vaccines Set Navigation title in component COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines COVID-19 Vaccine Update Beginning with the 2022 summer term, the university no longer requires, but strongly recommends faculty, staff and students receive COVID-19 vaccines. It is important to note that the university will continue to consult with medical and public health experts and may change our responses as needed. According to the CDC, up-to-date vaccination, which includes boosters, is generally the most effective way to protect oneself and others from COVID-19. In particular, students in residential housing are strongly encouraged to get COVID-19 vaccines and booster doses. Getting a vaccine is quick and easy and appointments can be made at locations on and off campus. Members of the UC community who work and learn at sites with independent COVID-19 vaccination requirements (e.g., hospitals, clinical sites, schools) may be required to comply with requirements pertaining to those sites. Non-compliance may prevent one from fulfilling one’s academic and professional objectives. Benefits of a Booster Dose The university strongly encourages members of the UC community to get COVID-19 booster dose. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) have authorized booster doses of COVID-19 vaccines for adolescents and adults ages 12 years and older. Boosters can offer added protection against COVID-19, particularly the Omicron variant, and maximize ongoing protection against infection. The CDC recommends that adults (18 years and older) receive either the Pfizer or Moderna Covid-19 booster at least 5 months after completing your primary COVID-19 vaccination series or two months after an initial dose of Johnson and Johnson vaccine. According to the CDC, two doses of a COVID-19 mRNA vaccine along with a booster dose are 75 percent effective against Omicron infection, while two doses alone provide only 35 percent protection against infection with the Omicron variant.  For additional information about the COVID-19 booster dose, including answers to commonly asked questions, please visit the CDC or Ohio Department of Health websites. Act Now - vaccination & booster opportunities If you have not yet been vaccinated, or received a booster dose, COVID-19 vaccination is available to members of the campus community through many medical providers and pharmacies: University Health Services, on UC's Uptown campus, is offering vaccine (first and second dose) and booster doses. Please call 513-556-2564, option 2, to schedule an appointment. UC Health is offering vaccine appointments at multiple locations Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Call 513-584-DOSE (3673) to schedule an appointment. You can also check vaccines.gov and gettheshot.coronavirus.ohio.gov to find a nearby vaccine provider and to schedule an appointment.  All vaccinated students, faculty and staff may voluntarily submit vaccination status using the COVID Check app or the web-based version of COVID Check app.  Please do not submit other personal information to this address.   General Vaccine Information The vaccine is safe, and effective Currently, authorized COVID-19 vaccines are effective against infection, symptoms, severe disease and hospitalization due to the virus. Currently, authorized COVID vaccines provide protection against variants of concern Getting an authorized COVID vaccine reduces the severity of illness in vaccinated people who get COVID-19, compared to people who are unvaccinated. Vaccine FAQs for students Will UC require the vaccine? right arrow down arrow Currently, the university strongly recommends faculty, staff and students receive COVID-19 vaccines including booster doses. It is important to note that the university will continue to consult with medical and public health experts and may change its response as needed. Is there a cost for the vaccine? right arrow down arrow Generally, there are no out-of-pocket expenses. How can I voluntarily submit my documentation of full vaccination status? right arrow down arrow Proof of vaccination can be submitted using the COVID Check app or the web-based version of the UC COVID Check app as well as email to ucovidcheck@ucmail.uc.edu. You will need to submit a photo of the front and back of your vaccination card. Are the voluntary submissions by students of their proof of full vaccinations reviewed and verified in any way? right arrow down arrow Yes. If the submitted documentation is incomplete or if there seem to be errors, we may request that a student voluntarily request their medical provider to provide them with a vaccine print-out. If any voluntarily submitted vaccination documentation were found to be deliberately falsified, that would potentially be referred to OSCCS. I would prefer my child have a room mate or room mates who are vaccinated. Can that be arranged? right arrow down arrow Students or their parents moving into UC Housing may share a student's vaccination information with others if they choose to do so. If a student in UC Housing wishes to swap living arrangements / room mates, there is a standard process to do so. The university is not assigning housing based on vaccination status. (Students seeking an accommodation for a qualifying disability should contact the Office of Accessibility Resources.) What if I have more questions? right arrow down arrow Call the UC COVID Check Response Team at: (513) 558-1772 (513) 558-1773 The COVID Check phone lines are staffed Monday - Thursday from 9:00 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. and Friday - Sunday from 9:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. You can also email uccovidcheck@ucmail.uc.edu for assistance. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top