Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu University Learning Center Main Navigation Make an Appointment Academic Assistance Titan Learn Job Opportunities Set your Zoom appointment through TitanNet/Navigate- we are 'virtual' ! Then just check in at your appointment time. You can also have a virtual center tour! The University Learning Center A College Reading and Learning Association Certified Tutoring Center The University Learning Center (ULC) is an important component of Student Academic Services, in the Division of Student Affairs at Cal State Fullerton. We believe that all learners need support that extends beyond the classroom to reinforce and amplify daily lessons. Research shows that students who engage in tutoring, and attend study groups, achieve higher grades than those who do not. Our focus is the undergraduate 100 & 200 level high-impact, bottleneck General Education courses. The carefully selected and certified ULC tutors support students in most CSUF undergraduate general education courses. We offer one-to-one (as well as groups of three from the same course) peer tutoring and many more services to help you reach your academic goals. You will find us on the first floor, north side of the library. To make an Appointment for Tutoring FIRST - read the Tutoring Center Agreement under the "Academic Assistance" tab. Then read the directions below. TitanNet does not support on-line writing assistance. Navigate quick instructions for making appointments. All matriculated students can access Navigate by 1) going to fullerton.edu/ulc and click on ‘Make Appointment’ top left (easiest) or 2) log into the Portal, select the cube icon at the top right and select Student Home Page. From there, select Training/Help and click on the TitanNet logo (orange-blue-orange people). You are now at Student Home. Click on 'Make Appointment' on the right side of the screen. Select ‘Tutoring’, Service ‘Course Based Tutoring’. Click the 'Next' arrow. Select 'Location': University Learning Center-Pollak Library North. Pick the course for which you wish tutoring. (If what you want is not available, it is because what you are enrolled in is not a subject we offer. Check the "Subjects Offered" below). Select a time. You can choose first available or a specific day up to a week in advance. Confirm your appointment. Our cancellation and no-show policies are still enforced. Students can schedule one 30-minute appointment per day, per subject, up to three times a week for a total of one and one half hour of tutoring. Appointments for which a student does not 'show' are part of the weekly count for all tutees. Subjects Offered Assistance for Graduate Students Tutoring Center Hours REMINDER: TUTORING WILL BE AVAILABLE DURING FINALS WEEK. Monday-Thursday: 9am-5pm Friday: 9am-12pm Closed during Spring and Fall recess and Winter and Summer intersessions. Questions? Contact Us! University Learning Center Pollak Library North, 1st Floor Phone: (657) 278-2738 Email: ulc@fullerton.edu Social Media Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/csuf.ulc Twitter: https://twitter.com/csufulc Meet the Staff About the ULC Contact Us This site is maintained by University Learning Center. Last Published 4/14/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ulc@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.6 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.