Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU HARVie Academic Calendar Directory Search HOME About What is FAS? Dean Claudine Gay Messages from the Dean FAS Leadership Advisory Committees Advancing Racial Justice Support FAS Reports FAS Strategic Planning Core Activities Teaching and Learning Research and Discovery Student Experience Academics & Research Academic Divisions & SEAS Departments and Areas Degree Programs & Courses Centers, Institutes & Societies Libraries Museums Resources Quick Contacts Sexual & Gender-Based Harassment Policy/Resources For Faculty For Staff For Postdocs News Covid-19 Updates and Resources News HOME / NEWS / News FAS Process for Denaming Spaces, Programs, or other Entities May 5, 2022 Dear members of the FAS community, Last December, President Bacow shared the final report of the Committee to Articulate Principles on Renaming with the Harvard community. The report sets out principles and a framework for considering cases in which Harvard might contemplate... Read more about FAS Process for Denaming Spaces, Programs, or other Entities Reflections on Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery Report April 26, 2022 Dear members of the FAS community, Earlier today, President Bacow shared the report of the Committee on Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery. The result of nearly three years of painstaking and uncompromising research, it brings to light Harvard’s historic ties—direct, financial, and intellectual—to slavery, extending long after slavery’s end in Massachusetts in 1783. Our institution owes the members of the Committee a profound debt of gratitude for their... Read more about Reflections on Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery Report Report of the FAS Committee to Review Conduct Policies and Procedures April 11, 2022 Dear colleagues, Last week, the University shared new draft policies on discrimination and bullying, formulated by the University Discrimination and Bullying Policy Steering Committee and Working Groups. A comment period for the Harvard community is now underway. As part of this process, the FAS will host feedback... Read more about Report of the FAS Committee to Review Conduct Policies and Procedures A Time for Connection and Community March 30, 2022 Dear colleagues, On March 14, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences implemented the University’s new guidance that made masks optional in most indoor spaces (see here for that announcement). While it was no surprise that taking off the mask would be a relief, what has been most surprising is the sense of joy that has come from seeing each other’s faces in person again. This relatively small act has made an outsized... Read more about A Time for Connection and Community Updated FAS Masking Guidance March 7, 2022 Dear members of the FAS Community, Earlier today, the University announced that, with limited exceptions, face coverings on campus will be optional in all indoor spaces on Harvard’s campus as of March 14. I am writing to describe how the Faculty of Arts and Sciences will implement this guidance across our School.... Read more about Updated FAS Masking Guidance Eligibility for Unmasked Teaching in FAS February 28, 2022 Dear colleagues, As Dr. Nguyen announced earlier today, University policy will give Schools the option to allow instructors to teach without a mask if they meet certain requirements (outlined below) starting on March 3 (when updated University Environmental Health and Safety ... Read more about Eligibility for Unmasked Teaching in FAS FAS Spring Updates January 19, 2022 Dear colleagues, Over the past few weeks, you have received messages from many sources—from the University and Harvard University Health Services, to the Office of Undergraduate Education,... Read more about FAS Spring Updates FAS Spring Term Update January 5, 2022 Dear FAS community, Yesterday the University shared a comprehensive update on Omicron and its implications for our campus operations. As was noted, we continue to see record high numbers of positive cases among members of the Harvard community, consistent with trends in the region and the nation, driven by this highly transmissible variant.... Read more about FAS Spring Term Update FAS Activities in January December 18, 2021 Dear colleagues, As you saw in the message this morning, the University is carefully monitoring the rapid rise of COVID-19 cases, and particularly the spread of the Omicron variant, which is proving to be highly transmissible. The University has asked Schools to move to remote learning during January term, and to reduce the density of on-campus activities for the first three weeks of... Read more about FAS Activities in January Report of the FAS Task Force on Visual Culture and Signage December 6, 2021 Dear members of the FAS community, Last fall, as one of several steps the FAS is taking to advance racial justice in our community, I charged the FAS Task Force on Visual Culture and Signage with articulating a vision for how we evolve a more inclusive visual culture in FAS spaces, connecting our past with our present and our hopes for the future. After extensive outreach within our community and... Read more about Report of the FAS Task Force on Visual Culture and Signage 1 of 59 ›› The FAS Reporter FAS newsletter with return to campus guidance and resources for the FAS community. Read the May 26, 2022 issue. Harvard University Faculty of Arts & Sciences Cambridge, MA 02138 Contact us website poll - real Help Us Improve Our Website Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement