Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) About Apply for Housing Apply for Housing SMU Housing Portal Rate and Fees Living On Campus Living On Campus Residential Commons Upper-Division Housing Apartments Policies Get Involved Get Involved Dallas Community Departments Faculty Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Students Make A Request ☰ RLSH Get Involved Graduate Students Graduate Student Assistantships, Internships, & Opportunities SMU strongly encourages graduate students to participate in leadership and processional development opportunities within areas of Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH). Discover your fit within one of these on-campus graduate student opportunities. ACUHO-I Summer Interns During the summer, RLSH hires ACUHO-I interns to assist with three different functional areas – student leader training, conferences, and summer school housing. In addition to gaining practical experience, all interns participate in professional opportunities, meet and network with other Division of Student Affairs (DSA) professionals and summer interns, and visit a regional university with interns and professional staff. The full job descriptions will be posted to the ACUHO-I Internship website in January of every year. Candidates must register through the ACUHO-I program to view the job descriptions and apply. Also, review our former intern testimonials as you consider opportunities at SMU. How to Apply: Candidates must register through the ACUHO-I Internship program to apply Contact: Kiel King (kielk@smu.edu), Assistant Director for Housing Operations Assistant Residential Community Director (ARCD) for Mary Hay, Peyton, Shuttles (MHPS) Commons The Assistant Residential Community Director (ARCD) for Mary Hay, Peyton, Shuttles Commons (MHPS) will work on the Leadership Team in a Residential Commons at SMU consisting of three separate buildings: Mary Hay, Peyton, and Shuttles Hall. All of the buildings are traditional suite-style rooms with a mix of all undergraduate grade levels at SMU, but primarily first- and second-year students, and in total house about 358 residents. The Commons staff as a whole consists of 1 Resident Community Director (RCD), 1 Faculty in Residence (FiR), 1 Assistant Residential Community Director (ARCD), and 11 Resident Assistants (RA). View the full job description here. Current Position Status: Filled Expected Vacancies for 2022-2023: 1 How to apply: Initial preference is provided to the Simmons School of Education masters students in Education Policy and Leadership. Each February, admitted students are invited to attend Preview Day and interview for positions across the university. At the beginning of March, vacant positions are open to graduate students across SMU and are available for application on a rolling basis. At that time, an online application will be posted. More information about this process can be found here. Contact: Nate Faust (nfaust@smu.edu), Residential Community Director Assistant Residential Community Director (ARCD) for Upper Division Housing (UDH) The Assistant Residential Community Director (ARCD) for Upper Division Housing (UDH) will work in a community of buildings that includes: Graduate House, Daniel House, Smith, Perkins, and Moore. All of the buildings consist of predominantly upper-class and graduate/non-traditional students. Halls consist of apartment-style and traditional double occupancy residence halls. The area as a whole consists of 1 Residential Community Director (RCD), 1 Assistant Residential Community Directors (ARCD), and 10 Resident Assistants (RA). View the full job description https://smu.box.com/s/hfmal8sfdio0lpke2bmwgl4s98vy22dehere. Current Position Status: Filled Expected Vacancies for 2022-2023: 1 How to apply: Initial preference is provided to the Simmons School of Education masters students in Education Policy and Leadership. Each February, admitted students are invited to attend Preview Day and interview for positions across the university. At the beginning of March, vacant positions are open to graduate students across SMU and are available for application on a rolling basis. At that time, an online application will be posted. More information about this process can be found here. Contact: Matt Nadler (mnadler@smu.edu), Residential Community Director Fraternity House Director (FHD) - Currently Accepting Applications The FHD position is a live-in graduate student worker role. Organizationally, FHDs are student staff members of the Office of Residence Life. FHDs may be assigned to oversee up to 2 fraternity houses. The primary functions of the role is to provide leadership in community standards, Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) administration, facilities operations, and access control management. Administrative requirements include submitting work orders, participating in an on-call duty rotation, attending weekly team and one-on-one meetings, reporting alleged violations of laws and/or university policy, facilitating check-in, check-out, room inspections, and damage billing processes. View the full job description here. Current Position Status: Filled Expected Vacancies for 2022-2023: 3 - 5 How to apply: Candidates can apply via Handshake in February. Contact: Amanda Bobo, (abobo@smu.edu), Associate Director of Residence Life Graduate Assistant for Engage Dallas The Graduate Assistant for Engage Dallas within Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) is a position reporting to the Residential Community Director of SMU Service House. Engage Dallas is a place-based community engagement initiative via SMU’s Residential Commons to address community needs focusing on South and West Dallas. The initiative is a long-term, university-wide commitment led by students to partner with local residents, organizations, and other leaders to positively impact the community. As a member of the Academic Initiatives team and co-supervisor of the Engage Dallas Student Directors, the GA champions a culture of community engagement and improvement within the department in support of student learning, development, and success. Current Position Status: Filled Expected Vacancies for 2022-2023: 0 How to apply: Initial preference is provided to the Simmons School of Education masters students in Education Policy and Leadership. Each February, admitted students are invited to attend Preview Day and interview for positions across the university. At the beginning of March, vacant positions are open to graduate students across SMU and are available for application on a rolling basis. At that time, an online application will be posted. More information about this process can be found here. Contact: Audryanna Reed (audryannar@smu.edu), Associate Director for High-Impact Practices Graduate Assistant for the Housing Unification Board (HUB) The Graduate Assistant for The HUB will serve as the lead advisor for the organization. The HUB is charged with representing all on-campus students (over 3,000 students) to the office of Residence Life and Student Housing. The HUB is focused on supporting the Residential Commons when appropriate, programming for on-campus students, and serving as an advocate for residential and affiliated students. The HUB has three values - promoting leadership opportunities, building community, and growing all students. These students are typically classified as sophomores - seniors. The HUB’s mission is to support SMU residential communities in the development and enhancement of initiatives and traditions. View the full job description here. Current Position Status: Filled Expected Vacancies for 2022-2023: 0 How to apply: Initial preference is provided to the Simmons School of Education masters students in Education Policy and Leadership. Each February, admitted students are invited to attend Preview Day and interview for positions across the university. At the beginning of March, vacant positions are open to graduate students across SMU and are available for application on a rolling basis. At that time, an online application will be posted. More information about this process can be found here. Contact: Eleanor Luna (eeford@smu.edu), Associate Director of Residence Life Graduate Assistant for Research, Assessment, and Planning The Graduate Assistant (GA) for Assessment, Research, and Planning within Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) is a position reporting to the Director of Academic Initiatives. As a member of the Academic Initiatives team and co-supervisor of the Research Team, the GA champions a culture of evidence and improvement within the department in support of student learning, development, and success. The GA provides leadership to increase the department’s knowledge about residents, the educational residential college environment, and institutional effectiveness to continuously improve student programs and services, and does so through service in support of outcomes-based assessment, data informed decision-making, strategic planning, student-focused research, and professional education. View the full job description here. Current Position Status: Filled Expected Vacancies for 2022-2023: 0 How to apply: Initial preference is provided to the Simmons School of Education masters students in Education Policy and Leadership. Each February, admitted students are invited to attend Preview Day and interview for positions across the university. At the beginning of March, vacant positions are open to graduate students across SMU and are available for application on a rolling basis. At that time, an online application will be posted. More information about this process can be found here. Contact: Dr. Dustin Grabsch (dgrabsch@smu.edu), Director of Academic Initiatives PeerChaplain Peer Chaplains provide a listening presence to fellow students struggling with academic pressure, relationships, homesickness or other stressors through programming, 1-1 meetings, and small group settings. Supervised by the Office of the Chaplin and Religious Life, the aim of the Peer Chaplain is to help connect a peer’s personal experience to their purpose in life so that they find meaning not only in what they do but in who they are. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share