Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Governance and Administration> Governance - General> Data Governance Regulation - Version 1 Data Governance Regulation - Interim Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy REG01.15.06 Title Data Governance Regulation Category Governance and Administration Sub-category Governance - General Authority Chancellor History Approved May 23, 2016 Contact Director of Strategic Information Services; 252-328-9240 Related Policies University Student and Employee Computer Use Policy Academic Computer Use Policy Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA or Buckley Amendment) Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy Policies Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Security Policies Social Security Numbers (SSN) and Personal Identifying Information (PII) Regulation Additional References COBIT Governance Data Management Body of Knowledge (DAMA DMBOK) University Data Governance 1. Introduction Data governance is the exercise of executive authority and control over the management of Institutional Data. (See 4.1 Institutional Data) The data governance function assigns decision rights and accountability for ensuring Institutional Data is accurate, available, secure, and used in a manner that is compliant with all applicable laws, regulations, and University policies. Institutional Data is a key asset of East Carolina University. It informs the University’s decision making processes and is essential to fulfilling the University’s mission to the people of the State of North Carolina. Appropriate Use (See 4.2 Appropriate Use) of Institutional Data improves the quality and delivery of the University’s programs and services and builds public trust in the University’s activities. 2. Purpose The purpose of this Regulation is to: 2.1 Establish clear lines of accountability and decision-making responsibilities through the creation of administrative structures and the definition of responsibilities associated with the formal management and use of Institutional Data. 2.2 Facilitate consistent handling of data across the University enterprise. 2.3 Ensure consistent policies, regulations, rules, and procedures regarding data, information, and enterprise data management. 3. Scope 3.1 This regulation applies to all persons and entities employed by or performing work on behalf of the University, including, but not limited to, staff, faculty, student workers, contractors, and volunteers (the “Covered Persons”). 4. Definitions 4.1 Institutional Data means any information, facts, statistics, data, or records in any medium now existing or existing in the future that is created, acquired, maintained, managed, used, or transmitted by Covered Persons in the course and scope of employment, volunteering, or otherwise on behalf or in furtherance of the mission of the University. 4.2 Appropriate Use means the creation, collection, storage, modification, removal and dissemination of Institutional Data by Covered Persons in accordance with applicable University policies and requirements, federal and state laws, contractual requirements, industry standards and business needs. 4.3 Data Trustees are designated University Employees responsible for ensuring the Appropriate Use of Institutional Data. Data Trustees provide executive oversight of enterprise data management functions and are accountable for ensuring the availability, validity and usability of Institutional Data within their areas of administrative responsibility. Data Trustees are appointed by and delegated authority from the Chancellor and include the Vice Chancellors that head each of the University’s Divisions, the Vice Chancellor for Legal Affairs, the Chancellor’s Chief of Staff, the Director of Athletics, the Chief Audit Officer, and other positions that may be appointed by the Chancellor in writing. 4.4 Data Stewards are designated University Employees that ensure the Appropriate Use of Institutional Data within their designated areas of administrative responsibility. Data Stewards direct the management of Institutional Data in order to improve its usability, accessibility, and quality. They assist in the development, maintenance and implementation of data management policies, processes and requirements. Data Stewards are appointed by and delegated authority from the Data Trustees and are responsible for managing defined segments of Institutional Data. 5. Policy Statements 5.1 Policy: It is the policy of East Carolina University that all Covered Persons shall Appropriately Use Institutional Data. 5.2 Ownership of Institutional Data: With respect to Covered Persons the University is the owner of all Institutional Data. The University may transfer or assign ownership of all or part of its rights in Institutional Data to Covered Persons through express policy statements or contractual agreements. The ownership of Institutional Data as between the University and third parties is determined in accordance with applicable law and contractual commitments and is outside the scope of this Regulation. 5.3 Enterprise Data Management Steering Committee (EDMSC): The Enterprise Data Management Steering Committee provides strategic direction to the Data Stewardship Committee on the alignment of data management activities with University data needs and reporting obligations. The EDMSC reviews assessment results and reports to the Data Trustees and to the Chief Information Officer on the quality and effectiveness of enterprise data management functions. Enterprise Data Management Steering Committee members are appointed by the Chief Information Officer, the Associate Provost of IPAR, and the Academic Council. 5.4 Data Stewardship Committee (DSC): The Data Stewardship Committee is composed of Data Stewards appointed by the Data Trustees to direct the university community on the effective management and Appropriate Use of Institutional Data. The DSC develops and recommends for adoption by the appropriate body/officer, policies, regulations, rules, standard operating procedures, and best practices, and provides communication and consultation as needed to ensure Covered Persons are aware of and understand their responsibilities as they relate to the Appropriate Use of Institutional Data. The DSC reports to the EDMSC and the Chief Information Officer on issues related to the effective management and Appropriate Use of Institutional Data and compliance with data management policies and standards. 6. Violations 6.1 Violation of this Regulation may result in disciplinary action being taken in accordance with applicable university policy. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier