Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Alumni Home Sites Alumni Get Involved Your career journey is a lifelong process. Whether you are just starting out, conteplating a change in direction, or looking to assist current Boston College students, we hope you will stay connected with the Career Center. We offer full career services to recent alumni as well as multiple opportunities to volunteer your time and give back to current students. We also highly encourage you to stay connected with the Boston College Alumni Association. Career Services for Recent Alumni Alumni of degree-granting programs who graduated within the past five class years are eligible for full access to the services available to current students, including Handshake, career coaching by professional staff, as well as events such as career fairs. Career Services for All Alumni If you graduated from Boston College more than five class years ago, you may take advantage of the following outside services: Boston College Alumni Job Board on Eagle Exchange Career counseling through Transition Solutions Career counseling through the Career Counselors Directory LinkedIn Featured Career Resources for All Alumni Connect with the Global BC Community Eagle Exchange is Boston College's official networking and mentorship platform. Join Eagle Exchange to grow your alumni network, reconnect with former classmates, use the alumni job board, and provide mentorship and guidance to current students. Join Eagle Exchange Rock Your Interview Big Interview is an interview preparation tool. Use Big Interview to get hands-on practice with mock interviews tailored to your specific industry, job, and experience level. Use code: bcALUMNI Big Interview Career Support and Mentoring Opportunities As an alum, you have valuable experience to share with the Boston College community. You can make a significant impact in a student’s career journey by volunteering to share your story, offer advice and encouragement, and open doors for future opportunities. We invite you to partner with us on our mission to empower all students to pursue meaningful careers and lives. No matter where you are located or what time you have available, there are opportunities for you to get involved. Join Eagle Exchange Eagle Exchange is an online platform connecting the global BC community through lifelong, professional conversations. Engage in quick career conversations or provide mentorship to current students. Post a Project on Eagle Exchange Projects are short-term, unpaid virtual experiences that can be completed remotely and help students build skills that will make them stronger candidates for internships and jobs. Hire an Eagle Advocate for your organization to hire Eagles. Speak with a member of the Career Center’s Employer Engagement team to discuss the many ways your organization can recruit BC students. Participate in Career Center Programming We invite alumni to volunteer to serve on a panel, lead a workshop, host a lunch and learn, contribute to our blog, or participate in one of our signature programs such as Endeavor and the Alumni Job Shadow Program. Express Your Interest Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College