Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Meadows School of the Arts About SMU Meadows School of the Arts: Meadows Graduate Student Council Meadows Graduate Student Council Meadows Graduate Student Council Apply to be an MGSC Officer About MGSC The Meadows Graduate Student Council (MGSC) is a student organization that provides financial assistance for the academic, artistic, and professional development of students in Meadows School of the Arts graduate programs. The by-laws below will go into effect on June 1, 2018. Download By-Laws MGSC Forms Download Instruction Sheet Download Project Proposal Form Download Reimbursement Form Download W-9 Form MGSC Officers Vice President - Allison Farris Allison Farris is pursuing her Master of Arts in Advertising at SMU's Temerlin Advertising Institute. She is Executive Director of AAF Dallas, the Dallas chapter of The American Advertising Federation, and is currently serving as Vice Chair of Ad 2 National, a collaborative community of passionate, forward-thinking and motivated professionals that are making a difference in their local communities and the advertising industry. She was named one of Ad 2 Dallas's 32 Under 32 in 2018. Allison lives in Fort Worth with her daughter, Elliot, and her two Boston Terriers. She received a B.A. in Public Relations from The University of Texas at Arlington. Treasurer - Danielle Ezor Danielle is a first-year doctoral student in the Rhetorics of Art Space and Culture: PhD Program in Art History. She received her BA in Art History and Studio Art from Wellesley College and her MA in Art History from the Williams Graduate Program in the History of Art. At Williams, Danielle worked in the Print Study Room at the Clark Art Institute and presented her masters qualifying paper titled "Women's Work: Jean Siméon Chardin's Kitchen Maids." She has also spent time as a research intern in the Art of Europe Department at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Her research focuses on eighteenth-century French visual and material culture with a concentration in materiality and gender politics. Other interests include printmaking, the art of the book, and Orientalism. Public Relations Chair - Philip Vilar Philip Vilar is a second-year graduate student pursuing an MFA degree in Stage Design at Southern Methodist University. Originally from Long Island, NY, He attended The State University of New York at New Paltz where he earned a BA in Theatre Design and Technology. His internship experiences include working at Available Light; a lighting design firm and Electronic Theatre Controls, Inc. Prior to SMU, Philip lived in New York where he worked as a Design Assistant at Quantum Creative Studios working on varies forms of entertainment from Theatre to corporate events. During his free time; He likes to play video games, read comic books, and exploring Dallas. Secretary - Austin Flores Austin Flores is earning his Master of Arts in Film and Media Arts at Southern Methodist University. He completed his Bachelor of Science in Film, Television, and Digital Media with a minor in English at Texas Christian University in 2016. After graduation from TCU; he moved to Seattle to get away from the Texas weather and ended up getting addicted to coffee. Realizing that the Seattle rain was never-ending, he came back to Fort Worth and started freelancing on numerous television/commercial sets. He also created a media creation group with friends called Porcelain Pigeon. The group does commercial work, podcasts, and narrative work. His research interests are toxicity in media, vampires in media, and the future platforms/distribution of media. When he has time to breathe--he enjoys tacos, coffee, running long distances, playing video games, talking indie music, and posting bad tweets on Twitter: @ausflor. Staff/Faculty Advisor Joe Hoselton, Director of Graduate Admissions & Institutional Research Questions or Concerns? Contact MGSC by email at mgsc@smu.edu. Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search