Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice Degree Programs Advising Internships Lambuth News Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Criminal Justice Student Association Course Offerings Contact Us SUAPP Home Criminal Justice Advising Undergraduate Advising The Department of Criminology & Criminal Justice provides advising for undergraduate students who are looking for information on courses to take, progress towards graduation, internship opportunities, and other department-related matters. Students may sign up for an advising appointment via Campus to meet with the advisors in-person, or be advised via email. Walk-ins may be taken, contingent on advisor availability. Meet the Advisors Mr. Andrew Senter is an instructor/coordinator with the Department. He received his M.A. in Political Science from the University of Memphis, holds a B.A. in Political Science from the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, and a J.D. from Florida Coastal School of Law. He currently teaches Introduction to Courts with the University of Memphis, and previously taught International Law and International Relations with the University of Memphis as well as American Government and Criminal Justice classes at Arkansas State University-Midsouth. Prior to teaching, Andrew worked as a legal analyst in wills and trusts, estates, and conflicts of law at Senter and Senter Attorneys in Humboldt, Tennessee. He advises students with last names beginning with M-Z and may be reached at jasenter@memphis.edu. Ms. MK Webb is an instructor/coordinator with the Department. She advises students with last names beginning with A-L and may be reached at mkwebb@memphis.edu. Mr. George Megelsh is a Senior Lecturer with the Department at the Lambuth Campus. He received his Masters degree from Rider University and is a former law enforcement officer. He may be reached at gmmgelsh@memphis.edu and advises all Lambuth students. Undergraduate Coordinator Dr. Amanda Johnson Phone: 901.678.5733 Email: djhnsn42@memphis.edu Graduate Advising Graduate Advising Coordinator Dr. James McCutcheon Phone: 901.678.3399 E-mail: jcmcctch@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/18/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.