COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Management, Minor MinorManagement All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Management A minor in management from Wichita State's AACSB-accredited Barton School of Business will help you build a background in management principles and practices that you can add to your skill set and use in a wide range of career settings. The minor is a valuable addition to virtually any business or non-business major. Learn how management is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the Barton School of Business, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Learn more by getting outside of the classroom You don't have to stay on campus for all of your classes. Braden McCall, a business management minor, took advantage of WSU’s Study Abroad Program, spending a semester studying at the ESCE International Business School in Paris, France. Taking management classes while fully immersed in another culture will give Braden the experience he’ll need as he one day pursues a career in mechanical engineering. Curriculum The 15-credit-hour minor is available to business majors and non-business majors. To complete it, you’ll take an introductory management course and 12 additional credit hours of upper-division management courses based on your interests and career goals. View the curriculum Careers A management degree from Wichita State will prepare you for high-paying careers with multinational companies, banks, joint venture operations, import-export firms, trading companies, the federal government, state trade agencies—and anywhere people and key decision-making processes meet. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Management Economics Entrepreneurship Finance Marketing 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©