UW Home Home Stories Menu Home Stories Make your gift today Give Stories of impact Read about the people, places and programs that drive the University of Washington’s faculty, staff and students to work for a world of good. Breaking barriers Professor Cecilia Aragon vanquished fear to become the first Latina pilot on the U.S. Aerobatic Team — and the first Latina full professor in the UW College of Engineering. Watch video Planet protectors How five UW alums’ diverse career paths are helping improve our environment. Read story Dinosaur dreams Zeke Augustine, ’23, has sifted through soil for microscopic fossils and helped dig up a Triceratops. The Burke Museum has been at the heart of it all. Read story Chasing the Cretaceous Kelsie Abrams and the UW’s Burke Museum hunt for dinosaur fossils and solve mysteries in the Hell Creek Formation. Watch video Discoveries in dino country On a pivotal excavation in Montana, UW paleontologists, students and volunteers uncovered clues that shine light on the age of the dinosaurs. Read story The pack is back UW campuses burst back to life after 18 months of remote work and study. View photos You deserve the world Find fresh inspiration in this new poem by MFA grad Ally Ang, ’21, brought to life in this video performance. Watch video A call to action Associate Professor Wendy Barrington is bringing a passion for health equity to her new role as the inaugural director of the UW’s Center for Anti-Racism and Community Health. Read story Building better health care By learning together, students across the UW’s health sciences schools are preparing to work together for better patient care. Read story Learning the business Nicole Bryant, ’21, is getting a real-world business education and helping a women-owned startup — thanks to the Foster School’s Consulting and Business Development Center. Read story Speeding up the science Johanna Trueblood, a semiprofessional cyclist, lost her life to an uncommon form of cancer. Now, through her parents’ philanthropy, there’s new hope for patients and their families. Read story Presidential scholars look ahead As the first Presidential Scholarship recipients finish their time at the UW, they share favorite moments and future plans. Read story Unleashing the superpower of dogs The UW’s Conservation Canines sniff out answers to pressing environmental questions. Read story Bridging the distance When the UW returns to in-person learning this fall, faculty will bring with them the creative methods developed while teaching remotely — even in courses that are typically hands-on. Read story Standing tall His journey took him from the UW to professional basketball and back. But it’s in the special education classroom that Anthony Washington, ’16, ’19, is making a lasting difference. Read story State of the arts Behind the scenes at 4Culture, three UW alumni are helping artists and cultural organizations across King County to thrive — with racial equity as their North Star. Read story Native knowledge ISchool assistant professor Miranda Belarde-Lewis, ’07, ’11, ’13, combines research, teaching and curating to help reclaim how Native art is presented — and bring Native voices to the forefront. Read story A year in focus: 20 from 2020 Twenty moments from a year like no other — captured through the lenses of UW photographers. Read story Inspiring intelligence For Helen Noyes, ’69, a love of languages nurtured at the UW translated into a lifelong career with the CIA. Read story Bringing health care home Danyelle Thomas, ’07, became a doctor to help improve the health outcomes of underserved communities — starting with her own. Read story Portraits of the frontline With courage, compassion and commitment, workers at UW Medicine care for our communities in the time of COVID-19. Read story Health planet, healthy people How can we recover from a health crisis during a climate crisis? Five UW experts weigh in. Read story Racing against a pandemic Last winter, King County became the nation’s COVID-19 epicenter. The UW’s quick response was months, even years, in the making. Read story A new age of fires As wildfires grow in severity, UW researchers are helping our region create a path forward — for the health of our forests and all who live here. Read story A twist of fate The life of engineering alumna Ayan Hassan, ’12, ’16, was changed by the UW’s Making Connections program. But she didn’t expect it to be saved by one of the program’s founders. Read story Putting health care in your hands UW faculty and students are developing smartphone apps to improve health and save lives. Read story A body in motion When Louis Maliyam, ’21, came to the U.S. to study computer science, he never expected that he’d find a second passion — dance. He now brings its lessons of vulnerability and freedom into his work teaching others. Read story Between humanity and technology What makes us human? The UW Center for Neurotechnology examines the ethics of tomorrow’s technology. Read story The language of the land UW Lecturer Tami Hohn is bringing Southern Lushootseed to a new generation across the University and the Puget Sound — where the language has always lived. Read story Who you are is enough For years, the Q Center has been advocating for the queer community at the UW — and it has made all the difference in students’ lives. Read story Filling the gaps Low-income veterans are getting life-changing dental care and more, thanks to Everyone for Veterans — a nonprofit founded by UW assistant clinical professor Theresa Cheng. Read story The year in focus: 19 for 2019 Every day, our photographers capture the University of Washington through their lenses. See the diversity and depth of experiences across the UW — the remarkable students transforming our campuses, the dedicated faculty making discoveries in the field and the joyful moments that brought us all together. Read story Rising to the challenge In the UW’s Grand Challenges Impact Lab, students like Cristina Lopez, ’19, worked in Bangalore, India, to address real-world problems — like the city’s urgent groundwater shortage — and increase their own cultural awareness. Read story Fueled by floods Along the Mekong River, which is currently at its lowest level in 100 years, UW researchers are collaborating with Cambodian leaders across industries and disciplines to find new ways to manage the impacts of hydropower on the supplies of rice and fish in the region. Read story Setting the pace Last year, standout high school athlete Hallie Jensen had never rowed — but now she’s competing on the UW’s Division I crew team, thanks to the Hometown Huskies program. Read story Caring for every child The Sunderlands were changed forever by the UW’s groundbreaking support for children with autism. Now they want to help other families access the same opportunities. Read story Policy in action Through the Task Force program, students in the Jackson School of International Studies tackle critical policy challenges — with accomplished experts as their guides. Read story Sea lessons Oceanography major Deana Crouser is doing more than getting her feet wet on the R/V Rachel Carson. She’s helping peer into the future of our oceans. Read story A road to recovery Struck by the number of nonviolent offenders imprisoned on drug charges, the Tulalip Tribes partnered with UW School of Law alumni to offer second chances through treatment. Read story Changing the future of engineering A redshirt year helps athletes gain confidence and skills. The STARS program is doing the same for engineering students like Tammy Teal, ’18, and senior Ivan Cordero. Read story Grid by grid Months after Hurricane Maria, thousands in rural Puerto Rico still lack electricity. In partnership with local communities, UW researchers are working to restore their power. Read story Español Redefining reality At the UW’s CoMotion Labs, Lacey Leavitt, ’03, and Joe Jacobs of Electric Dream Factory are helping shape an inclusive future for the VR industry. Read story The heart of research For help with her senior thesis on Korean dramas, Kristy Kwon reached out to the UW’s East Asia Library. What she found there opened up her world. Read story 한글 A week in the wild Students and professors from the College of the Environment made a classroom out of one of the world’s most closely monitored ecosystems: Yellowstone National Park. Read story Sights & Sounds A lifeline to mental health Lisa Lovejoy suffered for years with mental illness — until she found the right treatment at Harborview Medical Center. Now she hopes to inspire others toward better health. Read story A pocket-size research revolution A breakthrough device called kidney-on-a-chip is giving new hope to patients suffering from kidney disease. Meet the team behind the project — and find out why the chip is heading to outer space. Read story Creating communities that care Across Seattle, UW School of Social Work students and community leaders are working together to encourage healthy behaviors in young people — and set them up for success. Read story Changing the game When she came to the UW, Havana McElvaine, ’17, thought of herself as an athlete first. She graduated as a student-athlete-activist — and now she’s getting ready to explore the world. Read story Garden cities At the UW’s College of Built Environments, students like David de la Cruz, ’17, are partnering with some of the world’s most vulnerable communities in the fight for environmental justice. Read story Where will meets way For Yakima-born Yesenia Velasquez, the Young Executives of Color program at the Foster School of Business has opened the door to a promising future she never knew existed. Read story Creating safer, smarter homes Older adults are living more independently thanks to modern technology. See how the UW School of Nursing is turning houses into smart homes, allowing residents and caregivers to catch warning signs of illnesses earlier. Read story Slide to unlock Today’s touch-screen world is leaving behind an entire segment of the population: those with motor impairments. iSchool Ph.D. candidate Martez Mott wants to change that. Read story Tracking the $15 minimum wage Seattle’s historic $15 minimum wage presents an unprecedented opportunity for researchers like Hilary Wething to track the effects of a new policy in real time. Read story Bridging the know-do gap We know science can improve health. But how do we go from knowing to doing? The School of Public Health has the world’s first Ph.D. program in implementation science, designed to raise the speed and quality of applying science toward improved health worldwide. Read story Special care for healthy smiles Finding a dentist can be challenging for people with disabilities. But Dr. Keturah Lowe and other practitioners at the UW School of Dentistry are working to increase the number of dentists who can treat patients with special needs. Read story Tom Rochat 2.0 Five years ago, Tom Rochat, ’13, was foraging for mushrooms and struggling to pay rent. Today, he’s on the fast track to senior-level management at a global IT company — and he gives UW Tacoma credit for his transformation. Read story Taking diversity to the next level Students and staff in UW Bothell’s Digital Future Lab are not only creating professional-quality video games for commercial release, they’re also addressing the lack of diversity in the technology industry. Read story What is possible? Associate professors of art Mark Zirpel and Amie McNeil ask what is possible when we unite scientific curiosity and artistic mastery. Read story Helping the body heal, feel and move again From the Ability & Innovation Lab to the Center for Sensorimotor Neural Engineering, the College of Engineering is innovating novel devices to help people of all abilities live out their dreams. Read story Targeting cancer, precisely At the vanguard of next-generation precision medicine, Dr. Pamela Becker’s work through the Institute for Stem Cell & Regenerative Medicine is taking aim at cancer. Read story Unleashing the Husky Experience What is the Husky Experience? Well, that depends on who you ask. Read story Nurturing minds, opening doors In South Seattle and south King County, the UW College of Education is partnering with the Road Map Project to close achievement gaps in schools — and open all doors for young learners. Read story Explore our archive We invite you to visit our archive to see more stories. Archive Connect with us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn UW Current Newsletter Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA