Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Home About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Resources For Families Community of Learners Events Get Involved Site Navigation Home For Participants About the Hassenfeld Study Hassenfeld Study: Leadership Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma ABC Study Project CARE RI AIR Hotspot Analysis Home Asthma Response Program Neighborhood Risk Autism Genetics PHOEBE Study Prospective Infant Behavioral Study Play and Autism RI-CART Healthy Weight Summer Weight Gain Pregnancy and Early Childhood Expanding Scope of Treatment Measuring Overweight and Obesity The Hassenfeld Study Postpartum Cohort Prenatal Cohort Injury and Poisoning Neighborhood Disparities in Lead Poisoning Lead & Prematurity Fall-related Injuries Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use Frequent ED Use ED Use & Insurance Coverage Traumatic Brain Injury Burns Resources For Families English Español Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series Past events and webinars Get Involved Give to the Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards In the Spotlight Nicole Alexander-Scott Director, Rhode Island Department of Health, Assistant Professor of Medicine, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Warren Alpert Medical School “We have an amazing team of people that work extremely hard. We’re all supporting each other, lifting each other up, and pushing forward on this very important work.” Dr. Nicole Alexander-Scott MPH’11, in a Providence Journal article published March 18 Read full profile Anna Alikhani 2020 Summer Scholar As a graduate student working with vulnerable pregnant mothers in Baltimore, Anna Alikhani discovered that the recommendations of child health experts didn't always align with the familial situations of certain communities. Read full profile Spenser Anderson 2018 Summer Scholar Spenser Anderson '18 MPH'19 has always been fascinated by how the built environment affects health. Studying public health and urban studies at Brown led him to the Hassenfeld Summer Scholars Program, which gave him skills that he continues to use in his work in community development. Read full profile Kelsey Bala 2020 Summer Scholar At the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic in the summer of 2020, many Rhode Islanders were struck by food insecurity. As a Hassenfeld Summer Scholar at that time, Kelsey Bala worked with the Hassenfeld Institute to develop resources to help families in Rhode Island find nutritious food. Read full profile Erin Clements 2018 Summer Scholar As a nursing student at Boston College, Erin Clements, BSN, R.N. MPH’19 fell in love with her labor/delivery and pediatric rotations. After earning her B.S. in nursing in 2016, Clements entered the MPH program at Brown to do research in public health. There, she connected with Dr. Patrick Vivier, director of the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute, who is also the director of Interdisciplinary Education Programs at the School of Public Health. Read full profile Amanda DellaGrotta 2019 Summer Scholar Just a few months ago, Amanda DellaGrotta completed her MPH at Brown’s School of Public Health. Now, she is already putting into practice the skills she learned in the program and as a Hassenfeld Institute Summer Scholar. Amanda is currently an epidemiologist for the Rhode Island Department of Health (RIDOH), where she is assisting in the state’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. She has been examining the incidence of COVID-19 in the state’s child care centers. Read full profile James Dorroh 2017 Summer Scholar Prior to resuming his undergraduate studies in 2016, James Dorroh worked as a paramedic for six years for Wake County EMS in Raleigh, North Carolina. Dorroh was interested in medicine before becoming a paramedic, but on the job, he realized he loved patient care. “I went back to Brown with the goal of applying and going to medical school,” Dorroh said. Read full profile Lena Joesch-Cohen Lena Joesch-Cohen first heard about the field of computational biology in her ninth-grade history class, Big History. “It covered the history of the universe, such as how the stars were created, the big bang theory and the history of Homo sapiens,” Joesch-Cohen said. Read full profile Surya Manickam 2017 Summer Scholar After minoring in global poverty and practice as an undergraduate at the University of California at Berkeley, Surya Manickam, MD, was inspired to pursue research that could be leveraged to enact change in the lives of underserved populations. This, combined with his passion for working with children, led him to apply to the Hassenfeld Summer Scholars Program in 2017. Read full profile Cate Marchetti ’20 2018 Summer Scholar Cate Marchetti '20 first became interested in nutrition while running track in high school. Her desire to become a registered dietician led her to study public health at Brown, where her time as a Hassenfeld Summer Scholar sparked a passion for maternal and child health. Read full profile Daneva Moncrieffe 2018 Summer Scholar When Daneva Moncrieffe joined the Hassenfeld Institute Summer Scholars program in 2018, she had just finished her first year at Brown and was considering a pre-med track. After doing clinical research with the Asthma Initiative, Moncrieffe realized that she had a passion for medicine and knew she wanted to become a physician. Read full profile Daniel Moreno De Luca Assistant Professor of Pyschiatry and Human Behavior, Warren Alpert Medical School, Attending Child, Adolescent and Adult Psychiatrist, Verrechia Clinic, Bradley Hospital Genetic testing is supposed to be the standard of care for people with autism and developmental disabilities. Nevertheless, genetic testing happens in only a small number of cases. Dr. Daniel Moreno De Luca, a psychiatrist with the Verrecchia Clinic for Children with Autism and Developmental Disabilities at Bradley Hospital, wants to change that. “We think these tests should be offered to 100 percent of these patients,” Dr. Moreno De Luca said. Read full profile Kaley O’Connor 2017 Summer Scholar As a Hassenfeld Summer Scholar, Kaley O’Connor saw firsthand the barriers that low-income families face in Rhode Island every day. Working with the Healthy Weight, Nutrition and Fitness Initiative, O’Connor helped recruit participants for a study examining the outcomes of children who attended summer campus versus those who did not. Read full profile David Savitz Interim Dean, Brown University School of Public Health, Chair, Department of Epidemiology, Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Pediatrics, Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown Children who are deprived socioeconomically are more susceptible than others to an array of health problems, whether it’s asthma or cardiovascular risk or behavioral function. But these differences don’t start the day children are born. Read full profile Julia Tetreault 2020 Summer Scholar The challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic didn't stop Julia Tetreault '21 from realizing her goals in the Hassenfeld Summer Scholars program, which included starting on what would become her thesis project on affect in autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Read full profile Yokarla Veras 2017 Summer Scholar Yokarla Veras has always had a strong interest in health disparities and how they affect healthcare delivery as well as an individual’s overall health. That’s why she was eager to join the Hassenfeld Institute as a summer scholar in 2017 working on a project examining neighborhood risk factors associated with pediatric fall-related injuries that presented to emergency departments. Read full profile Samer Wahood 2019 Summer Scholar Read full profile About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Brown University Box G S 121-4 121 South Main Street, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3855 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Info for study participants Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top