Skip to Content Menu Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Close Main menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Secondary Menu Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Mobile menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Transferring to CU Boulder? Apply now for the fall 2022 term. Learn More Apply Now Admissions At CU Boulder, we believe in opportunity. It signals possibility, a moment that allows you to fulfill your potential. Here, you can find opportunity in your community by meeting people who can help you open new doors. You can find opportunity in your environment because our campus is a place that provides inspiration and encourages you to explore and grow. Finally, you’ll find opportunity in your education because CU Boulder allows you to customize your education and be involved in hands-on, faculty research. And this path is the foundation for your future. Here at CU Boulder, opportunity is everywhere. Interested in learning more about CU Boulder? Request Undergraduate Info Request Graduate Info First-Year Students You are considered a first-year student if you have not enrolled at another college or university since graduating from high school. First-Year Admissions How to Apply as a First-Year Student Next Steps for First-Year Students Transfer Students You are considered a transfer student if you have enrolled at another college or university since graduating from high school. Follow the Transfer Timeline Learn More about Transfer Credits How to Apply as a Transfer Next Steps for Transfer Students Graduate Students You are considered a graduate student if you have earned a bachelor's degree and are pursuing an advanced degree in a specific field. Graduate Admissions How to Apply as a Graduate Student Next Steps for Graduate Students Applying as an international student? If you need a visa to be in the U.S., you are considered and international student. U.S. passport and green card holders should apply as U.S. students. Either way, we recommend that you start your exploration of CU Boulder by choosing one of the student types above. This information is applicable to all students. Below, you will find any additional resources that you may need as an international applicant. Learn More About International Admissions Learn more about the University of Colorado Boulder Request Undergraduate Info Request Graduate Info Connect with Us Your CU Boulder admission counselor will be your primary point of contact with the Office of Admissions. They are here to help you through the application and answer any questions that may arise during the admission process. Reach out to your admission counselor, browse our latest blog content, find out when we will be visiting your area and connect with us @FutureBuffs on social. Find Your Counselor Read Our Blog Connect on Social Discover What's Here Visit CU Boulder and experience for yourself our spectacular surroundings and the extraordinary opportunities our campus provides. No matter which way you choose—a quick spin around the virtual tour, a campus tour one morning or afternoon, or a whole day visit program—just make sure to take some time to experience one of the best places to live in America. Browse virtual visit programs Visit With Us Explore from your home Virtual Tour The University of Colorado does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, pregnancy, disability, creed, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, veteran status, political affiliation, or political philosophy. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply. You may view the list of ADA and Title IX coordinators and review the Regent policy. As a student or prospective student at CU Boulder, you have a right to certain information pertaining to financial aid programs, the Clery Act, crime and safety, graduation rates, athletics and other general information such as the costs associated with attending CU Boulder. To view this information visit colorado.edu/your-right-know. Apply for Admission Visit Campus Support CU Boulder Get Help Safety & Health Services Campus Communications Emergency Alert System New Student & Family Programs Getting Around Campus Map Campus Events Parking & Transportation Visit Information Information for Faculty & Staff Families Journalists Initiatives Business & Industry Collaborations Diversity & Community Engagement Free Speech Innovation & Entrepreneurship International Students Public & Outreach Programs Sustainability Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Pinterest University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Contact Us • Privacy • Legal & Trademarks Accessibility • Student Consumer Information • Policies • CU Boulder Jobs Download the Clery Act Annual Security & Fire safety report, or request a paper copy from the CU Boulder Police Department. Return to the top of the page