Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Multicultural Student Affairs Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Tutor Funding Scholarships About Mission, Vision, and Goals Staff Culture Centers Work for MSA Organizational Chart Students Current Students Future Students Campus Resources Meet Our Students DACA/Undocumented Student Resources Get Involved Multicultural Student Organizations Promote an Event in MSA and at the MU Multicultural Center Events Calendar Men of Color Empowerment Summit Multicultural Student Leadership Council Funding Application The Hype The Hype (Student Blog) Submission Guidelines Scholarship Programs Academic Program for Excellence George Washington Carver Program Multicultural Vision Program Scholarship Appeal Information 2022-2023 Multicultural Student Scholarships Cargill thrive Program Faculty and Staff Multicultural Student Services Regional Conference The Spark: Faculty and Staff Training The Hype features submissions from Iowa State University multicultural students. The Hype is hosted by the Office of Multicultural Students Affairs; however, the views expressed are not necessarily those of the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs, Iowa State University, the Iowa Board of Regents or the State of Iowa. Kaitlyn McFadden's Experience at Iowa State 18 Mar 2022 4:08 PM By: Nsafi Kaitlyn McFadden went to a small high school in Texas and she said that for the most part, she enjoyed this experience. She was able to be involved in many things and take classes that she was interested in. But she said that she struggled the last two years of high school due to a teacher that did not like her and would call her out in front of others. This made her feel miserable while she was in school. McFadden chose Iowa State because it was close to her family; she has a lot of family that live in Des Moines. Read more about Kaitlyn McFadden's Experience at Iowa State Adventure Zakiya Johnson's Experience at Iowa State 18 Mar 2022 3:48 PM By: Nsafi When looking back at her high school experience, Zakiya Johnson can only describe it as being “okay.” She says that being one of the only Black women in her grade made it hard to feel comfortable and connected with the peers around her. That is why she was excited for a change of pace and scenery when considering college. Johnson is a junior at Iowa State majoring in psychology and she chose this institution because she was offered the George Washington Carver (GWC) scholarship. She also liked how strong the study abroad programs were at Iowa State. Read more about Zakiya Johnson's Experience at Iowa State Adventure Turner Anderson's Experience at Iowa State 18 Mar 2022 3:45 PM By: Nsafi When Turner Anderson was in high school he was fortunate enough to go to a school that had both great students and teachers; it was in this environment that their love for learning and science was nurtured. When he was not in the classroom, he was involved in choir, student council, soccer, and other extracurricular activities. Read more about Turner Anderson's Experience at Iowa State Adventure, In My Words My Thoughts, as an Asian Woman, on Shang-Chi by Alex 17 Nov 2021 9:31 AM Guest Blogger It felt awesome to go into a theater to watch a movie that had Asian characters being played by Asian identifying folx (looking at you, Emma Stone). Of course, all cast members or characters weren’t Asian, but I’m happy that most of the cast was Asian. Read more about My Thoughts, as an Asian Woman, on Shang-Chi by Alex In My Words Asian American, Graduate School Durga Sritharan's Experience at Iowa State 29 Apr 2021 1:22 PM By: Nsafi When Durga Sritharan looks back at her high school experience, she can say that she enjoyed it. In her high school years, she was able to connect with students and staff on a personal level. The relationships she established and maintained during that time helped her become a more sociable and outgoing person. Read more about Durga Sritharan's Experience at Iowa State This Is For Me by Paulina 28 Apr 2021 11:54 AM Guest Blogger Multicultural Vision Program scholars were asked to reflect on their first year at Iowa State in a creative way. Paulina discusses their experiences as a first-year student in Apparel Merchandising and Design and how Paulina channeled the experiences into a dress entered in the 2021 Fashion Show. See her reflection below. You can enable closed caption as needed. Read more about This Is For Me by Paulina In My Words MVP, College of Human Sciences, Latinx Ashley Brent's Experience at Iowa State 06 Apr 2021 3:58 PM By: Nsafi Ashley Brent chose to attend Iowa State due to the combination of majors that she wanted to take and as well as the courses that were going to be offered to her. Brent attended a high school in the capital city of Missouri where she enjoyed her school experience because of her love for academics and the extracurricular activity of band. She expressed how the band helped balance the stress that came with the school. Brent is currently a junior majoring in environmental science and community regional planning. Read more about Ashley Brent's Experience at Iowa State Adventure, Staff/Faculty Interview Destiny Payne's Experience at Iowa State 23 Mar 2021 2:45 PM By: Nsafi When Destiny Payne was deciding what school, she wanted to attend after her undergraduate program, she wanted to pick an institution that would give her a different experience than her last institution. She wanted to go to a bigger institution that also had a well-established student affairs program. So, when she found out that she could enroll in a student affairs program that had a social justice focus, she was immediately attracted to Iowa State. Read more about Destiny Payne's Experience at Iowa State Adventure, In My Words, Staff/Faculty Interview The Crazy Life of A Mexican Warr;or by Hugo 25 Nov 2020 12:00 PM Guest Blogger My name is Hugo O. Perez Loa! I am a recent graduate from the class of Fall 2020 at Iowa State University! My Major is in BLS (Bachelors of Liberal Studies) and I’m from Storm Lake, Iowa! The Crazy Life of A Mexican Warr;or is a YouTube video series that was created by, yours truly! I was nominated by Brian Behnken to do a collaboration with Iowa State’s MSA (Multicultural Student Affairs) Office, as well as their student website blog, The Hype, to produce a post of my experience as a Multicultural college student and, of course, as an Iowa State Student. Read more about The Crazy Life of A Mexican Warr;or by Hugo In My Words Latinx, LGBTQIA+ Meet Grace Shultis: Writing and Media Center Consultant 22 Sep 2020 8:24 AM Guest Blogger Beginning September 17, ISU’s Office of Multicultural Student Affairs & Writing and Media Center offer FREE peer tutoring services for MSA students working on any form of written, oral, visual, or electronic communication! Read more about Meet Grace Shultis: Writing and Media Center Consultant Leadership Callout Writing Media Center, GWC, College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Dean of Students Office Multicultural Student Affairs 2080 Student Services Building Ames IA 50011-2224 omsa@iastate.edu 515-294-6338 phone 515-294-6397 fax Facebook @ISU_MSA @isu_msa Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information