Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Social Work (MSW) Become a Clinical Social Worker Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Health Professions and Sciences Department(s) Social Work, Schl of 2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Gain the Knowledge and Skills to be a Shining Light to Others and Become a Social Worker The Master of Social Work (MSW) program prepares you to become a licensed clinical social worker (LCSW) to provide mental health services to individuals, families, and groups. No matter what area of social work you want to go into, our program provides you with the knowledge and experience needed to best support others. UCF offers several tracks that provide you with the convenience and flexibility to best fit your schedule and needs. This includes an advanced standing track for those with a BSW degree from an accredited program awarded within the last six years, and a traditional track for those who have a bachelor’s degree in any other area. You can complete an online Master of Social Work or in-person. Internships are the pedagogy of social work education. Our field education office connects you with an internship to provide you with critical hands-on experience and professional practice hours through supervised generalist and clinical social work. The UCF MSW program is accredited by the Council on Social Work Education and is devised to provide you with all the requirements for licensure in the state of Florida. Request Information Highlights The Bureau of Labor Statistics projects a 13% job growth for social workers over next 10 years. Median pay is $51K according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Master of Social Work Application Deadlines Application deadlines vary by track. Please visit the UCF School of Social Work for additional details and requirements. Find application deadlines Course Overview Human Behavior in the Social Environment Study of human development and psychosocial functioning of individuals, groups, families and communities with particular attention to implications of human diversity. Diverse Client Populations Study of human diversity, focusing on the needs, resources, problems and service issues of several identified minority client populations. Social Work Practice I: Generalist Practice Study of conceptual frameworks used to build relationships, interviewing skills and problem-solving skills necessary to work with clients in their environment using a generalist model of practice. Psychosocial Pathology Study of psychosocial dynamics of dysfunctional behavior in individuals. Theories for Evidence-Based Clinical Practice in Social Work Study of theoretical perspectives including, cognitive behavioral therapy, motivational interviewing, solution-focused therapy and other therapies. Clinical Practice with Families Family-focused models of intervention applied to families in transition and to problems such as divorce, single parenting and blended families. Throughout my social work career, I have witnessed some of the greatest love stories filled with extraordinary acts of resilience, compassion and strength. Sometimes, my clients may not see their own potential, but I get to watch people accomplish things they didn’t know they had the capacity within themselves to do.” — Erica Sirrine, '00MSW, director of social work at St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital MSW Skills You'll Learn How to best provide treatment to individuals, families, and groups in a clinical setting Evidence-based practice Preventive and therapeutic interventions to enhance human functioning and quality of life Advocating for others Critical and analytical thinking skills How to best work with diverse populations Career Opportunities Child and Family Services Social Worker Healthcare Social Worker Community Agency Social Worker Mental Health and Substance Abuse Social Worker Military Social Worker School Social Worker Law Enforcement Social Worker Admission Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. The Master of Social Work Program offers several options to students including full-time study, advanced standing admission, as well as the mixed mode and online classes to support the part-time study. Applicants must choose a track in this program. Track(s) may have different requirements. Request Information To apply, submit the general graduate admissions requirements, as well as the following items by the deadline: Applicants must successfully complete one course in each of the following categories with a grade of C or higher (humanities, physical and biological sciences, mathematics, and social sciences) Meet GPA requirements in last sixty credit hours (3.3 for advanced standing and 3.0 for traditional) Request Information College of Health Professions and Sciences News Check out more stories Health & Medicine Survivor Link National Training Program Launches at UCF The program will support nine social work students, developing their ability to respond to domestic violence. Colleges & Campus UCF Opens New Huntington’s Disease Multispecialty Clinic Located in Research Park, the new clinic offers multidisciplinary care from the College of Medicine, School of Social Work, and College of Health Professions and… Community UCF Class Spotlight: Introduction to American Sign Language In honor of National American Sign Language Day, April 15, here’s a look at a course — plus an instructional video — that teaches students… Health & Medicine UCF Students Team up to Provide Care at Apopka Farmworkers Clinic For the first time since the pandemic, the clinic has returned to in-person services at full capacity. UCF Alumna Sharon Dietsche Advocates for Policy Changes as a Practicing Social Worker As the Director of Program Operations for the Center for Adoption Support & Education™ (C.A.S.E.)., Sharon Dietsche ’94 ‘97MSW advocates for the awareness and prevention of the school-to-prison pipeline. Learn about her role in changing lives Degree Search College of Health Professions and Sciences programs Masters Social Work (MSW) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Social Work (MSW) program offered at UCF. Loading... University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida