Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Educational Financing Student Account Refunds Student Account Refunds A student may request an account refund when financial aid disbursements and/or personal payments exceed the cost of tuition and fees. Expand all Collapse all Refund Process Students may begin requesting account refunds as early as the first day of classes, which is when most financial aid for the semester will begin disbursement if all requirements have been met. The refund will be based on enrollment at the time of the request and will be limited to $5,000 or less depending on the actual credit on the student account. If there is a remaining credit on the account after this initial refund, an additional request may be submitted after the Change of Program Period has ended. Requesting a Refund Students may determine if a credit exists on their account, and whether they are eligible for a student account refund, by reviewing the account detail section of their student account in SSOL. Students are not required to request a refund, and may instead decide to leave the credit on their student accounts. All refund requests must be reviewed by the GS Office of Educational Financing, to ensure that all financial aid is correct based on enrollment. While SSOL indicates a process for requesting a refund, students should instead use the form below. Refund requests made through SSOL may take longer to be processed. Students are encouraged to set up direct deposit in SSOL as this avoids a paper check process, and funds will be received more quickly. Please note: direct deposit can only be set up using a U.S. bank account. Additionally, the University cannot mail refund checks internationally. Note: Anticipated activity (e.g., pending Pell Grant disbursement, etc.) listed on a student’s account detail do not count towards a refund. If you are living in Columbia Residential, your rent will be charged to your student account in SSOL on a monthly basis. If you request a full refund of the credit balance on your account, this means throughout the semester you will need to make a payment each month to SSOL as your rent is billed. Federal Student Aid Credit Balance (Title IV) In certain circumstances when total federal financial aid (known as Title IV aid) exceeds tuition and fees (also known as allowable charges), the excess funds must be returned to the student even if the student does not request a refund. When this occurs, the student will be notified by Columbia University Student Financial Services. Webform Refund Request Form Note: Prior to filling out this form, students must review their Student Account Detail in SSOL. If you are living in Columbia Residential, your rent will be charged to your student account in SSOL on a monthly basis. If you request a full refund of the credit balance on your account, this means throughout the semester you will need to make a payment each month to SSOL as your rent is billed. After reviewing a student's financial aid and semester charges, the GS Office of Educational Financing will determine if the student is eligible for a refund and then submit the request to Student Financial Services. The approved refund may be less than the current credit balance. Full Name First Last Columbia UNI Total Points Amount of Refund Full Refund Partial Refund Partial Refund Amount $ Submit Make an Appointment GS Office of Educational Financing 408 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-5410 [email protected] Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Payment and Account Inquiries Columbia University Student Financial Services 205 Kent Hall 1140 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-4400 http://askus.columbia.edu Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. (Cashiering windows in 210 Kent Hall close at 4 p.m. daily) Work-Study Program Work-Study Office 210 Kent Hall (212) 854-6232 [email protected] Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close