Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Departments Population and Family Health Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Population & Family Health The Heilbrunn Department of Population and Family Health explores the legal, policy, and human rights dimensions of health, particularly within communities in low-income, unstable, or inequitable environment around the globe. 048-2016.jpg Degree Programs Our degree programs combine interdisciplinary scientific and technological approaches with a human rights framework to understand factors undermining the health and wellbeing of populations worldwide. We combine rigorous academic training and research with on-the-ground public health programs. Read More 110-2016.jpg Research Research initiatives within the department span the areas of forced migration, sexual and reproductive health and rights, child and adolescent health, and health systems. Read More db-ao73157.jpg Our Students Our talented students draw on their diverse backgrounds when developing the expertise needed to excel in a rapidly evolving health field. Their academic enrichment is a priority within PopFam, with faculty and staff actively engaging, mentoring, and teaching students. Read More ghjg_website_hero_promo.png Launch of the Global Health Justice and Governance Program Website GHJG integrates public health, legal, and scientific scholarship and practice from across Columbia University to promote, protect, and fulfill the right to health. Read More Who We Are Programs Research News and Events Faculty Contact Us Message from the Chair "My commitment to human rights and human dignity, along with a history of creating interdisciplinary approaches to solving pressing health threats, align with the department’s work and vision," says Terry McGovern, JD. Read more What We Do We are committed to improving health around the world. Students and faculty strive to eliminate health disparities through scientific and service leadership. Check out this video to see a few highlights of what we do. Degree Programs Through MPH, MS, and DrPH degree programs, students focus on the health needs and rights of diverse global populations. Support Our Work Help advance research on community health systems around the world. Donate Now New GHJG Website GHJG integrates public health, legal, and scientific scholarship and practice from across Columbia University to promote, protect, and fulfill the right to health. View the new website here Tweets by @columbiapopfam Close Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers