Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Visitor Information Contact Information Take Action Student FAQ Cantor Sect Contact Us Home Math Sciences About About the Department of Math Sciences Hosted in attractive, spacious and recently restructured Dunn Hall, and embedded in commercially vibrant and culturally rich great Memphis area, the Department of Mathematical Sciences offers outstanding opportunities for study and research in many areas of pure and applied mathematics and statistics. The department's mission is multi-fold and encompasses strong components in education, research, and service. Its ultimate goal is the creation and dissemination of mathematics, to benefit the new generations, the scientific community at large, as well as, ultimately, the present technological society. Mathematics plays an ever increasingly critical role in our global society, which requires analytical and quantitative analysis. In the present job market, job opportunities and careers are increasingly driven by mathematical thinking and quantitative skills. The department offers various degree programs at the B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. level. Our graduate programs are characterized by breadth and depth in the following areas: combinatorics and graph theory; ergodic theory; functional analysis and operator theory; functional and partial differential equations and applied mathematics; mathematical learning theory and operations research; and applied statistics. The department's faculty is actively involved in: (1) cutting-edge research in the above areas; (2) effective and dedicated education of the student population in small size sections; (3) close mentoring of Ph.D. students, domestic and international, aimed at preparing them for successful professional careers, both in academia and in the private or governmental sector; (4) service to the professional community and organizations through direct participation in scientific committees, editorial boards of math journals or book-series, and scientific panels. The math faculty is highly research productive in scholarly work, with several research projects being supported by external grants from the NSF, AFOSR, DARPA, etc.. The department organizes annually a number of conferences: the Erdős Conference in honor of Hungarian mathematician Paul Erdős who was a frequent annual visitor of the department; and the Differential Equation Weekend. Both are sponsored by the NSF. The department is scheduled to host the 5th International Conference on Design of Experiments in May 2019. The department has hosted other major international conferences in Analysis, Combinatorics, Partial Differential Equations, and Statistics. The department is a proud member of the Association for Women in Mathematics. AWM sponsors a wide variety of exciting programs that encourage girls and women to study mathematics and have active careers in mathematical sciences. The great Memphis area offers a superb professional program in the arts (blues, classical music, opera, theater, dance, etc.) to be complemented by the performances of the Music and Theater Departments of the University of Memphis; of other local colleges and universities; and religious and civic organizations. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/8/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.