Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW UW Alumni Association We aim to lead and inspire alumni to stay connected to UW for life. We foster a culture of pride and loyalty among alumni and friends through involvement, sharing of the university’s direction and aspirations, and engaging alumni and friends. We harness the passion of our alumni through network communities to expand outreach, impact and advocacy for UW by collaborating with UW partners to host multiple events per year, including Homecoming. These activities encourage alumni to become advocates for graduates in their career pursuits and for prospective students to attend UW. Finally, we engage students with relevant and meaningful leadership opportunities, scholarship and career programs that in turn create a loyal bond in the first stage of the Alumni Pathway-equipping them to carry the torch of UW Pride. Mission Build pride, loyalty and future sustainment among the UW Community through communication, involvement, engagement, and celebration. Vision Be an essential UW partner to lead and inspire alumni and friends to support and promote the university through a lifelong connection with the university. Purpose We help alumni and friends stay involved with the university, sharing with them the university’s direction and aspirations and engaging them in order to attain those aspirations. Update Your Information UWAA Events Additional UWAA ENGAGEMENT information UWAA | Election Notification 2022 Board of Directors Election Notification: Join us in voting for a candidate for the 2nd District, Albany and Carbon Counties, on the UWAA Board of Directors. Voting will take place June 1-20. UWAA | Digital Connections Digital Connections: Tune In for all of our Digital Connections from your UWAA, such as recorded interviews with alumni, prominent figures on campus and more! Subscribe to the UWAA YouTube Channel and receive notifications when each video is released! Fall 2021 Cowboy Alumni Football Pre-Game Pep Talks (Football Edition) video release dates and list of interviewees: Sept. 3 - Brian Brown Sept. 10 - Logan Wilson Sept. 17 - Derrick Martin Sept. 24 - Jeff Boyle Oct. 8 - John Wendling Oct. 15 - Karsten Sween Oct. 22 - Steve McMillon Oct. 29 - Mike Schenbeck Nov. 5 - Marcus Harris Nov. 12 - Ward Dobbs Nov. 19 - Jim House Nov. 26 - Julius Stinson Learn More About the UWAA Membership and Ways to Give Scholarships License Plates Get Involved Career Connect with us | THROWBACK | Take a look at this throwback from January 1, 1951. The Western Thunder Marching Band has been... Posted by University of Wyoming Alumni Association on Thursday, February 3, 2022 View this post on Instagram A post shared by UWYO Alumni Association (@uwyoalumni) Virtual Tour Virtual Tour 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility