Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index University Student Housing Menu Search TTU Housing Spring Move Out Summer Move In Fall Move In University Student Housing wants you to feel prepared for the Move-Out process. Please watch the video below for additional information. Students need to be moved out of their room 24 hours after their last final exam OR by 10 a.m., Wednesday, May 11, 2022, whichever comes first. MOVE-OUT PROCEDURES VIDEO Important Dates Tuesday, May 3, 2022: Last day of class. Beginning at 10 p.m., 24-hour quiet hours will be enforced. These hours will remain through the end of the term. Wednesday, May 4, 2022: Individual Study Day Monday, May 9, 2022: If you need to stay on campus beyond the hall's established Move-Out date and time (E.g., Graduating Seniors), you MUST submit a Contract Extension Request BEFORE May 9. Reminder, this form is a request, and you must obtain approval to remain on campus past 10 a.m., Wednesday, May 11, 2022. Final exam day or Wednesday, May 11, 2022: Students need to be moved out of their room 24 hours after their last final exam or by 10 a.m., Wednesday, May 11, 2022, whichever comes first. Wednesday, May 11, 2022: Last day for mail/package delivery for non-summer residents. Mail received after May 11 will be returned to the sender if the Move-Out Forwarding Address is not complete. Wednesday, May 11, 2022: All residents are required to fill out the Abandoned Property Agreement form by MAY 11. Saturday, May 14, 2022: Graduating seniors who have an approved Contract Extension Request must check out by 10 a.m. on May 14. If you are a summer school resident, you will receive information regarding your move from the hall staff in your current building. This information will be shared as soon as it is available via a phone call or your TTU email. Students are not allowed to move into their summer space until instructed to do so by hall staff. Planning for Move Out Attend the floor meeting conducted by your CA in April who will review the move out and checkout procedures. Floor meetings will occur between April 27 - May 2. If you do not understand the checkout procedures, be sure to ask your CA. Pack early and start taking your possessions home during home visits. Be prepared to clean your room to avoid being charged for cleaning. Do not plan to leave items in your vehicle overnight because this is a high break-in time. If you have mini-fridges from Collegiate Concepts: Left inside your room. Defrosting your unit. Completely clean and dry. Return with all parts. Please leave refrigerator and freezer doors open. Give Before You Go: Donate clean items that are in good condition to Give Before You Go. You will find donation boxes in your hall's common areas. The bins are for donations, not personal shopping. Items will be donated to Goodwill. The following items will not be accepted and should be disposed of in the outside dumpsters: Mattress Pads Egg Cushions Carpet Squares Wood Cinder Blocks Perishable Food Contract Extension Request Requests to extend contract past May 11, 2022 must be submitted by 5 p.m. on May 9. *Requests after this deadline will not be considered. Contract extensions will only be granted for the following: Graduating Seniors. (Extension up until May 14, 2022) Residents assigned to West Village or Honors for Summer School during the Summer I (Early Summer) term. Residents employed by University Student Housing. Examples of Contract Extension Requests that will not be approved: *This is not an exclusive list. Flights booked after the established move out date. Friends or relatives participating in commencement. A lease that does begin until after the established move out date. Nearby hotel information is available at the Visit Lubbock website for those who are denied. Spring Move Out Contract Extension Request Before You Leave Checklist Do not leave items sitting in the hallway or unattended; this is a fire hazard and increases the chance of theft. Ensure all TTU property remains in the room to avoid additional charges. For all moveable furniture, place bed height in the 6th position. Clean your room. Your room should be “move-in” ready. This means the floor must be swept, drawers cleaned out, sinks cleaned, and surfaces wiped down. Cleaning supplies are available at the front desk. Close blinds and lock windows. Personal belongings left in your room after you have vacated are abandoned property. These items will be inventoried, labeled, boxed up, and stored by University Student Housing and you will be charged $50.00 for this process. Abandoned items are kept for 30 days after students have moved out. University Student Housing Staff will send a letter to your TTU email account to notify you to collect these items. Once you have been contacted, you can make an appointment to retrieve your belongings Monday - Friday between 7:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Dispose of your trash in the designated dumpsters outside your residence hall. Chitwood, Weymouth, and Coleman residents may use the available trash chutes on their floor. Re-check all closets and drawers for anything left behind. Check your mailbox for mail/packages. The last day for mail/package delivery for non-summer residents will be (TBA). Fill out the Move-Out Forwarding Address. Any mail received after May 11 will be returned to the sender if a form is not completed. Retrieve an Express Checkout Envelope from the front desk. Fill out the front completely. Place your room key in the envelope and seal it. Place the sealed envelope in the Express Checkout Box located near your hall's front desk. Note: If you leave without checking out properly (Express Checkout Process) you will be charged an improper checkout charge and potentially a lock change charge. Common Move Out Charges And Charge Appeal Form If you incurred any charges, they will be applied to your Student Business Services account three or four weeks after moving out. Be sure to pay your bill to avoid having a hold placed on your account. If you would like to appeal or learn more about a charge on your account, fill out the Appeal a Move Out Charge form. All appeals must be submitted using the online form within 30 days from the billing date. Broken Light Fixture $40 - $80 Repainting Wall Spots/Walls/Room $40 - $700 Losing or Not Returning a Key $50 Per Door Leaving Trash in the Hallway $50 Abandoned or Unremoved Property $50 Cleaning for Dirty Room/Suite/Apartment Starting at $75 Replacement of Missing Desk Chair $80 Residence Halls open for Early Summer May 29, 2022 Residence Halls close for Early Summer July 2, 2022 Residence Halls open for Late Summer July 3, 2022 Residence Halls close for Late Summer Aug. 6, 2022 Before You Arrive On Campus Prior to your arrival on campus, University Student Housing wants you to feel prepared for the move-in process. Please be sure to take care of the items listed below to ensure a smooth move-in process. Purchasing renters insurance is highly encouraged but not required. Visit a third-party vendor here. Review your room, hall, roommate, and dining plan assignments. Learn more about your hall and room dimensions. Purchase a parking permit from University Parking Services for your residence hall lot. You can review our campus map here. What To Bring Below is a shortlist of items that might be helpful to have during the year. It is a good idea to check with your roommate(s) before bringing everything yourself. Often the amenities in a room are shared there's no need (or space) for two of everything. Coordinating which roommate will bring large items like refrigerators, microwaves, and televisions can save space and make a much more pleasant living environment. Student ID (Tech ID) Used for check-in, residence hall access, meals, etc. Original Social Security Card Necessary if planning to work on campus Bedding Supplies Bed linens, XL twin-sized sheets, pillows, pillowcases, blankets, and mattress pad Specially sized linens and sheets are available for purchase through Residence Hall Linens Program Bathroom Supplies Typical toiletry items, a shower caddy or tote, and shower shoes Laundry Supplies Laundry basket, high-efficiency detergent, and other supplies you utilize Clothing Think about clothes that you will wear throughout the year. It is important to keep all seasons in mind and plan accordingly. Also, keep in mind that space is limited! Personal Items Prescribed medications, a bicycle with lock, laptop & phone chargers, ethernet cable, etc. Other Room Supplies Small trash can, decorations, command strips, UL-approved surge protector (up to 12 feet), and approved electrical appliances. Approved Electrical Appliances All electrical appliances must bear a UL or equivalent certification label. Extension cords are prohibited. Only UL or equivalent certification type surge protectors can be used. Standard small refrigerator (3.5 cubic feet) and must operate at 120 volts at 60 hertz. Microwaves must operate at 1500 watts or less. Due to limitations of the electrical systems in the residence halls, microwaves may occasionally not perform as designed, especially if operated in conjunction with other appliances. Crockpots and coffee makers (6 cups or less) can be used. Wall mounts are prohibited. While there are no size restrictions on televisions, a 50-inch TV will not allow much room for other items. What Not To Bring Be sure to review the University Student Housing Policies and Procedures to familiarize yourself with the list of prohibited items and behaviors. Alcohol and weapons (of any kind) Be aware of combustible materials and supplies Candles and incense Non-approved electrical appliances Toasters, toaster ovens, hot plates, open coiled appliances, rice cookers, grills, instant pots, and air conditioners Non-approved lighting features Halogen lamps or incandescent lightbulb lamps Extension cords without a breaker Amplifiers, large speakers, and/or multiple speakers are prohibited. Non-approved pets. Fish in a tank up to 5 gallons are allowed. Wireless router - for more information, please visit the IT Help Central website Do not bring items you are unable to store in your room. University Student Housing does not provide storage. Please be sure to bring your student ID or photo ID. We also recommend you bring your own moving supplies, such as a dolly/hand truck, however, a red linen cart can be checked out to assist you with your move. Safety and Room Modification Requirements As a safety precaution, room modifications must follow these guidelines: Lofts are not permitted in residence hall rooms unless they are university-owned. USH is not liable for injuries caused by adjusting room furniture. All USH furniture must remain in place and may not be dismantled in any manner. If you choose to make modifications: Furniture and electronics must be free-standing (not fastened to walls or ceiling). Furnishings must be structurally able to safely support a person's weight. Furnishings must not block a doorway. The room door must open to its original design. Furnishings must not restrict exit from any portion of the room or be a safety hazard to persons walking around the room. Furnishings that block the heating and air conditioning system could impact the overall climate within the room. Furnishings must not include false floors of any kind. Must not include cork or shingles attached to any wall or ceiling surface. Furnishings must not include flammable material attached to the ceiling or to any wall surface. Furnishings must maintain a clearance of at least three feet from the main construction frame to the ceiling. Furnishings must have all construction materials approved in writing by the Associate Managing Director of Facilities regarding fire retardant properties, toxic chemicals, etc. All student room modifications shall be removed, and the room returned to its original condition before checking out of the room. USH will not provide storage for any materials involved in student room modifications, nor will the department assume any liability for injury or damage. Student room modifications that could create a possible fire, health, or safety hazard to any resident will not be allowed. Electrical breakers will occasionally trip because of excessive amps being pulled from the outlet. Breakers trip as a safety feature to protect personal property and limit injury from electrocution and fires. USH reserves the right to remove personal property causing service issues with repeated breaker trips. It is recommended that a FixIt Request be submitted to have beds adjusted. Spring 2022 Move-In FAQs What do I need to bring for move-in? It is a good idea to check with your roommate(s) before deciding what to bring in terms of large items like mini-fridges, microwaves, and televisions. Please review our "What to Bring?" section above. Will movers be available? Movers will not be available to assist with your move-in process. Are carts available to assist with move-in? Yes, there will a limited number of red carts for use on your move-in day. Each student may check out ONE red cart using a state-issued ID. The ID will be returned when the red cart is returned. The ID may belong to the student or to a person assisting the student with moving in. What do I need when I check in? You MUST have a state-issued ID card or driver's license, or passport. It is recommended you also have documentation that lists your Texas Tech “R” number (course schedule, email, University communication that contains your “R” number, etc.). What if I do not have my Tech ID? If you do not have your Tech ID (also known as a Student ID), you will need to bring a driver's license, state-issued ID, or passport. It is recommended that as soon as you get to campus you go and get your Tech ID. Please visit the University ID office for more information. Can I bring my family pet? No. University Student Housing is a pet-free facility with the exception of fish in a tank up to 5 gallons. Service Animals and/or Assistance Animals will be allowed after appropriate documentation has been reviewed/approved by BOTH Student Disability Services and University Student Housing. Students found to have an unauthorized animal in their residence hall will be subject to a $100 fine per instance. Fall Move-In begins Friday, Aug. 12 Move-In Timeslot Program will open on July 1 Move-In Timeslot Program University Student Housing's Move-In Timeslot Program enables residents to select a specific timeslot for moving into their residence hall. The intent of the Move-In Timeslot Program is to reduce overall wait times for services and to promote safety for residents, families, and staff. The Move-In Timeslot Program will open on Friday, July 1. All residents living on campus for Fall 2022 are required to select a move-in timeslot by July 31. Additional information will be distributed to all students who have secured a room for Fall 2022 via TTU email early June. Before You Arrive On Campus Prior to your arrival on campus, University Student Housing wants you to feel prepared for the move-in process. Please be sure to take care of the items listed below to ensure a smooth move-in process. Sign up for a move-in timeslot. Purchasing renters insurance is highly encouraged but not required. Visit a third-party vendor here. Review your room, hall, roommate, and dining plan assignments. Learn more about your hall and room dimensions. Purchase a parking permit from University Parking Services for your residence hall lot. You can review our campus map here. What To Bring Below is a shortlist of items that might be helpful to have during the year. It is a good idea to check with your roommate(s) before bringing everything yourself. Often the amenities in a room are shared there's no need (or space) for two of everything. Coordinating which roommate will bring large items like refrigerators, microwaves, and televisions can save space and make a much more pleasant living environment. Student ID (Tech ID) Used for check-in, residence hall access, meals, etc. Original Social Security Card Necessary if planning to work on campus Bedding Supplies Bed linens, XL twin-sized sheets, pillows, pillowcases, blankets, and mattress pad Specially sized linens and sheets are available for purchase through Residence Hall Linens Program Bathroom Supplies Typical toiletry items, a shower caddy or tote, and shower shoes Laundry Supplies Laundry basket, high-efficiency detergent, and other supplies you utilize Clothing Think about clothes that you will wear throughout the year. It is important to keep all seasons in mind and plan accordingly. Also, keep in mind that space is limited! Personal Items Prescribed medications, a bicycle with lock, laptop & phone chargers, ethernet cable, etc. Other Room Supplies Small trash can, decorations, command strips, UL-approved surge protector (up to 12 feet), and approved electrical appliances. Approved Electrical Appliances All electrical appliances must bear a UL or equivalent certification label. Extension cords are prohibited. Only UL or equivalent certification type surge protectors can be used. Standard small refrigerator (3.5 cubic feet) and must operate at 120 volts at 60 hertz. Microwaves must operate at 1500 watts or less. Due to limitations of the electrical systems in the residence halls, microwaves may occasionally not perform as designed, especially if operated in conjunction with other appliances. Crockpots and coffee makers (6 cups or less) can be used. Wall mounts are prohibited. While there are no size restrictions on televisions, a 50-inch TV will not allow much room for other items. What Not To Bring Be sure to review the University Student Housing Policies and Procedures to familiarize yourself with the list of prohibited items and behaviors. Alcohol and weapons (of any kind) Be aware of combustible materials and supplies Candles and incense Non-approved electrical appliances Toasters, toaster ovens, hot plates, open coiled appliances, rice cookers, grills, instant pots, and air conditioners Non-approved lighting features Halogen lamps or incandescent lightbulb lamps Extension cords without a breaker Amplifiers, large speakers, and/or multiple speakers are prohibited. Non-approved pets. Fish in a tank up to 5 gallons are allowed. Wireless router - for more information, please visit the IT Help Central website Do not bring items you are unable to store in your room. University Student Housing does not provide storage. Arrive on campus during your scheduled move-in timeslot and proceed directly to your residence hall. Please be sure to bring your student ID or photo ID. We also recommend you bring your own moving supplies, such as a dolly/hand truck, however, a red linen cart can be checked out to assist you with your move. Safety and Room Modification Requirements As a safety precaution, room modifications must follow these guidelines: Lofts are not permitted in residence hall rooms unless they are university-owned. USH is not liable for injuries caused by adjusting room furniture. All USH furniture must remain in place and may not be dismantled in any manner. If you choose to make modifications: Furniture and electronics must be free-standing (not fastened to walls or ceiling). Furnishings must be structurally able to safely support a person's weight. Furnishings must not block a doorway. The room door must open to its original design. Furnishings must not restrict exit from any portion of the room or be a safety hazard to persons walking around the room. Furnishings that block the heating and air conditioning system could impact the overall climate within the room. Furnishings must not include false floors of any kind. Must not include cork or shingles attached to any wall or ceiling surface. Furnishings must not include flammable material attached to the ceiling or to any wall surface. Furnishings must maintain a clearance of at least three feet from the main construction frame to the ceiling. Furnishings must have all construction materials approved in writing by the Associate Managing Director of Facilities regarding fire retardant properties, toxic chemicals, etc. All student room modifications shall be removed, and the room returned to its original condition before checking out of the room. USH will not provide storage for any materials involved in student room modifications, nor will the department assume any liability for injury or damage. Student room modifications that could create a possible fire, health, or safety hazard to any resident will not be allowed. Electrical breakers will occasionally trip because of excessive amps being pulled from the outlet. Breakers trip as a safety feature to protect personal property and limit injury from electrocution and fires. USH reserves the right to remove personal property causing service issues with repeated breaker trips. It is recommended that a FixIt Request be submitted to have beds adjusted. Fall 2022 Move-In FAQs What do I need to bring for move-in? It is a good idea to check with your roommate(s) before deciding what to bring in terms of large items like mini-fridges, microwaves, and televisions. Please review our "What to Bring?" section above. Will movers be available? Movers will not be available to assist with your move-in process. Are carts available to assist with move-in? Yes, there will a limited number of red carts for use on your move-in day. Each student may check out ONE red cart using a state-issued ID. The ID will be returned when the red cart is returned. The ID may belong to the student or to a person assisting the student with moving in. What do I need when I check in? You MUST have a state-issued ID card or driver's license, or passport. It is recommended you also have documentation that lists your Texas Tech “R” number (course schedule, email, University communication that contains your “R” number, etc.). What if I do not have my Tech ID? If you do not have your Tech ID (also known as a Student ID), you will need to bring a driver's license, state-issued ID, or passport. It is recommended that as soon as you get to campus you go and get your Tech ID. Please visit the University ID office for more information. Can I bring my family pet? No. University Student Housing is a pet-free facility with the exception of fish in a tank up to 5 gallons. Service Animals and/or Assistance Animals will be allowed after appropriate documentation has been reviewed/approved by BOTH Student Disability Services and University Student Housing. Students found to have an unauthorized animal in their residence hall will be subject to a $100 fine per instance. University Student Housing Like University Student Housing on FacebookLike University Student Housing on Facebook Follow University Student Housing on twitterFollow University Student Housing on twitter Subscribe to University Student Housing on YouTubeSubscribe to University Student Housing on YouTube Follow University Student Housing on FlickrFollow University Student Housing on Flickr Follow University Student Housing on PinterestFollow University Student Housing on Pinterest Follow University Student Housing on InstagramFollow University Student Housing on Instagram Address Wiggins Complex, 3211 18th St., Box 41141, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-2661 | Fax: (806) 742-2696 Email housing@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 17, 2022 3:45 PM University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information Back Sign Up Information University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information Sign Up Information Back Sign up for Housing Contract Information Off Campus Eligibility Red Raider Express Pass Residence Hall Selection Guide Room Availability Report Prospective Students University Student Housing Prospective Students Back Residence Hall Information University Student Housing Prospective Students Residence Hall Information Back Residence Hall Selection Guide Virtual Brochure Off Campus Eligibility Flex Housing Move In/ Move Out Red Raider Express Pass Room Change Housing Rates University Student Housing Prospective Students Housing Rates Back Housing Rates Rate Calculator Deposit and Billing Information About TTU University Student Housing Prospective Students About TTU Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Spirit & Traditions All Student Organizations Student Recreation Current Residents University Student Housing Current Residents Back My Housing University Student Housing Current Residents My Housing Back Hall Addresses and Mailing information FixIT Maintenance Request View Roommate and Dining Plan Move In/ Move Out Holiday Break Information Room Change Hospitality Services University Student Housing Current Residents Hospitality Services Back University ID Change Dining Plan Get Involved University Student Housing Current Residents Get Involved Back Student Organizations Social Justice Advocates Residence Hall Association Events University Student Housing Current Residents Events Back Carol of Lights® Professing Excellence Safe Treat Tunnel of Awareness End of the Year Banquet MLK Celebration Student Services University Student Housing Current Residents Student Services Back Academic Improvement Plan Housing Scholarships Residential Tutoring About Us University Student Housing About Us Back Leadership Team University Student Housing About Us Leadership Team Back Staff Directory Housing Areas University Student Housing About Us Housing Areas Back Administration and Business Services Facilities Services Residence Life Work for Housing Services and Resources University Student Housing About Us Services and Resources Back Conference Services Marketing Request Form Solicitation Form IT Helpdesk Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index