Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index University Student Housing Menu Search TTU Housing Holiday Break Information Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Spring Break Reminders: Residents are not required to vacate their rooms over the break. If you will be accessing the hall at any time between Wednesday, November 24th at 5:00 p.m. - Saturday, November 27th at 8:00 a.m. you MUST fill out the Thanksgiving Break Hall Access form no later than Monday, November 22nd, 2021, at 1:00 p.m. Don't forget to let your CA know you are leaving. For EMERGENCIES, please contact the Community Advisor on dedication. The number will be posted at the hall office. In order to access your residence hall during the break, please utilize the card access doors. Facilities staff may enter your room to complete FixIT requests. Limited Dining Options will be available during the Thanksgiving Break. Students should remember that they can be held responsible for their guest's behavior. Guests must always be escorted by their hosts in the residence halls. Front hall offices will be open 12-1 p.m. and 5-6 p.m. daily from Wednesday, November 24th - Saturday, November 27th and they will reopen to 24 hour desks at 10:00 a.m. on Sunday, November 28th. Offices will resume 24-hour operations on Sunday, November 28, 2021, at 9:00 a.m. Don't Forget To... Make sure you have everything you need for the break (medication, passport, jewelry, electronics, airline tickets, contact lenses, etc.). Be sure to take fish home with you if you have them. Unplug everything in your room except microfridges. Remove all perishables from your room (milk, eggs, bread, yogurt, meat, etc.) Take out your trash. Close your blinds and lock your windows. Turn off all lights and ceiling fans. Be sure to check all the hall policies during the break! If you do not plan to return to Texas Tech after the semester break: Go to the University Student Housing Welcome Center in the Wiggins Complex to cancel your contract. Set up a room checkout with your CA Make sure everything is removed from your room and your room is clean. Residents who need to cancel their housing after December 9th, but have not yet moved out will need to move out of their rooms if they are canceling their contracts in January on either Monday, January 3, 2022 between 1 p.m. - 4 p.m. or on Tuesday, January 4, 2022 between 8:30 a.m. – 12 Noon. If you withdraw from the university after leaving for Winter Break, you are also required to cancel your University Student Housing contract. Start the process by contacting the Welcome Center at housing@ttu.edu. University Student Housing Offices located in the Wiggins Complex will be closed Friday, December 24, 2021, – Sunday, January 2, 2022, for university holidays. We will reopen at 8:00 a.m. on Monday, January 3, 2022. Contract Cancellation Winter Break Contract Extension Request If you need to request to stay past TBD , or are changing rooms, you must fill out the Winter Break Contract Extension Request You must vacate your room no later than 24 hours after your last final or no later than TBD . Room or Hall Changes must be completed by TBD , at 12:00 p.m. (noon). Check with your hall office for details. Winter Break Contract Extension Request Form Reminders: You must leave your room no later than 24 hours after your last final and no later than TBD . You are not required to take all of your belongings home over the break. If your roommate is not returning next semester, please keep the other side of the room empty and clean to avoid a single room fee. Starting at 10:00 a.m. on TBD , University Student Housing will be conducting closing room checks and documenting policy violations. Facilities staff will enter your room to clean suite bathrooms and complete FixIT requests. If you need to request to stay past TBD or are changing rooms, you must fill out the Winter Break Contract Extension Request no later than TBD , at 5:00 p.m. You will be emailed regarding the status of your request by your Residence Life Coordinator. Your room is reserved for the full academic year. If you are not returning to Texas Tech for the Spring 2022 term, please visit the USH Welcome Center to cancel your contract. Update Your Forwarding Address Appeal a Move-Out Charge Don't Forget To: Let your CA know when you are leaving. Clean, defrost, and unplug your mini-refrigerator during Winter Break. Defrosting your mini-fridge will take up to two days. To defrost your mini-fridge, follow these steps: Remove all perishables from the mini-fridge and freezer. Turn off and unplug the mini-fridge. Be sure to place a towel or large bowl in and around the mini-fridge. Once the mini-fridge has been defrosted, remove excess water using a towel or paper towels. Leave the door of the mini-fridge propped open to prevent molding. Make sure you have everything you need for the break (medication, passport, jewelry, electronics, airline tickets, contact lenses, etc.). Be sure to take fish home with you if you have them. Unplug everything in your room. Remove all perishables from your room. Please discard any trash that may be in your room before you leave for break. Close your blinds and lock your windows. Turn off all lights and ceiling fans. Check all faucets and fixtures to make sure they are not leaking and submit any maintenance concerns via FixIt. (If applicable) Set your thermostat to “Heat and Auto” or “70-75” and leave the room at a comfortable temperature. This will help prevent pipes from freezing and bursting. Make arrangements for meals according to the Dining Hours on campus. These points will help keep your room safe and clean for your return. Room Checks: Housing staff will be entering resident rooms starting at 10:00 a.m. on TBD , to ensure each room is ready for Winter break. In addition to the points mentioned above, please note the following: Mini refrigerators and freezers will be opened and inspected by housing staff. Perishable food left in mini-refrigerators and freezers will be discarded. Staff will unplug any devices or appliances left plugged in. Any remaining trash will be discarded. Any found policy violations will be documented. Raider Ride Evening Transportation Service From 6 p.m. to 2:45 a.m. seven days a week during the semester, Transportation and Parking Services provides a night shuttle service to students. Raider Ride is free when the starting or ending point of the trip is on the TTU main campus or Satellite lots. Raider Ride has a $5 charge per rider when the trip is from any off-campus location to another off-campus location Saturday, March 12, 2022 - Sunday, March 20, 2022 The staff WILL be entering your space to conduct room checks on Friday, March 11, 2022. These room checks are conducted to ensure the safety of the room and to document any policy violations. Please review the residence hall policies before leaving the residence halls for the break. SPRING BREAK HALL ACCESS FORM Hall Offices Front hall offices will close at 5 p.m. on Friday, March 11th Front hall offices will be open 12 - 1 p.m. and 5 - 6 p.m. daily on Saturday, March 12th, Sunday, March 13th, and Saturday, March 19th. Hall offices will be staffed from 8 am-6 pm Monday, March 14th to Friday, March 18th Offices will resume 24-hour operations on Sunday, March 20th at 9 a.m. For EMERGENCIES, please contact the Community Advisor (CA) on call. The number will be posted at the hall office. Don't forget to let your CA know you are leaving. Residents are not required to vacate their rooms over the break, however, if you will be accessing the hall at any time during Spring Break, you MUST fill out the Spring Break Access Request Form no later than Thursday, March 10, 2022, at 11:59 p.m.. Check Hospitality Services for information regarding opening hours for the dining facilities during spring break. Don't Forget To: Let your Community Advisor (CA) know when you are leaving. Make sure you have everything you need for the break (medication, passport, airline tickets, contact lenses, jewelry, electronics, etc.). Remove all perishables from your room. Remove all trash from your room and empty your trash bin. Close all your blinds and lock your windows. Turn off all lights and ceiling fans. University Student Housing Like University Student Housing on FacebookLike University Student Housing on Facebook Follow University Student Housing on twitterFollow University Student Housing on twitter Subscribe to University Student Housing on YouTubeSubscribe to University Student Housing on YouTube Follow University Student Housing on FlickrFollow University Student Housing on Flickr Follow University Student Housing on PinterestFollow University Student Housing on Pinterest Follow University Student Housing on InstagramFollow University Student Housing on Instagram Address Wiggins Complex, 3211 18th St., Box 41141, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-2661 | Fax: (806) 742-2696 Email housing@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 15, 2022 9:16 AM University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information Back Sign Up Information University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information Sign Up Information Back Sign up for Housing Contract Information Off Campus Eligibility Red Raider Express Pass Residence Hall Selection Guide Room Availability Report Prospective Students University Student Housing Prospective Students Back Residence Hall Information University Student Housing Prospective Students Residence Hall Information Back Residence Hall Selection Guide Virtual Brochure Off Campus Eligibility Flex Housing Move In/ Move Out Red Raider Express Pass Room Change Housing Rates University Student Housing Prospective Students Housing Rates Back Housing Rates Rate Calculator Deposit and Billing Information About TTU University Student Housing Prospective Students About TTU Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Spirit & Traditions All Student Organizations Student Recreation Current Residents University Student Housing Current Residents Back My Housing University Student Housing Current Residents My Housing Back Hall Addresses and Mailing information FixIT Maintenance Request View Roommate and Dining Plan Move In/ Move Out Holiday Break Information Room Change Hospitality Services University Student Housing Current Residents Hospitality Services Back University ID Change Dining Plan Get Involved University Student Housing Current Residents Get Involved Back Student Organizations Social Justice Advocates Residence Hall Association Events University Student Housing Current Residents Events Back Carol of Lights® Professing Excellence Safe Treat Tunnel of Awareness End of the Year Banquet MLK Celebration Student Services University Student Housing Current Residents Student Services Back Academic Improvement Plan Housing Scholarships Residential Tutoring About Us University Student Housing About Us Back Leadership Team University Student Housing About Us Leadership Team Back Staff Directory Housing Areas University Student Housing About Us Housing Areas Back Administration and Business Services Facilities Services Residence Life Work for Housing Services and Resources University Student Housing About Us Services and Resources Back Conference Services Marketing Request Form Solicitation Form IT Helpdesk Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index