Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Chemistry Home About Research Academics People News Seminars & Events Site Navigation Home About Facilities & Services NMR Facility Mass Spectrometry Facility Machine Shop Electronics Shop Stockroom Room Reservations Connect your Computer Outreach & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Action Committee Outreach Activities Chemistry Anonymous Climate Form Visitor & Contact Information Travel Policies for Guests Brown Chemistry Department Employment Opportunities & Internship Postings Geo-Chem MacMillan Safety Resources Research Chemical Biology Inorganic Chemistry Nano and Materials Chemistry Organic Chemistry Physical & Theoretical Chemistry Chemical Education Publications Academics Undergraduate Research Opportunities Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses CHEM - Web Tutorial Transfer Credit Honors & Awards ChemDUG REUs & Funding Graduate Financial Support and Funding Opportunities Awards Graduate Leadership Courses Resources People Faculty Staff Department Directory News Archive Seminars & Events Endowed Lectures DIAC-Hosted Events Alumni Speaker Series Congratulation Class of 2022 Congratulations Class of 2022! View our Graduates Here Prof Ming Xian Elected AAAS Fellow Prof. Ming Xian has been elected as an American Association for the Advancement of Science Fellow along with four Brown faculty members. Read more Prof. Richard Stratt receives American Chemical Society Award Prof. Richard Stratt receives the 2022 Joel Henry Hildebrand Award in the Theoretical and Experimental Chemistry of Liquids READ MORE "Storing Data in Chemical Soup" Professor Rubenstein's research is featured in the latest edition of Popular Science READ MORE Smashing! Professor Ou Chen and his group have found a method for smashing individual metal nanoclusters, creating metals that are up to four times harder than naturally occurring structures. Read More Coolest Molecule The LS Wang Group discover the Boron likely makes a quadruple bond, not a triple bond, as previously thought. The abstract can be found here. Read More about the Coolest Molecules Resources for Incoming Chemistry Students Incoming Chemistry Students! Sign up for emails, group discussions and more! Information here Graduate Program Start your next chapter in our Ph.D. Program. Discover More Undergraduate Study & Research Undergraduate concentrations in Chemistry, Biochemistry, and Chemical Physics, with research opportunities across the disciplines. Learn More Welcome to the Department of Chemistry at Brown University Research and teaching in Chemistry at Brown reflects Brown's innovative nature and is driven by the challenges of today's changing world. Discover how faculty, graduate students, undergraduates, and postdoctoral fellows collaborate to pursue scholarship across chemical fields and the interface of chemistry with biology, medicine, physics, and engineering. Brown Chemistry Ph.D. Open Houses Interested in pursuing a Ph.D. in Chemistry at Brown University? Learn more about our graduate program here. Applying to Chemistry at Brown: In October, you can start your application here. Resources for incoming Chemistry students can be found here. Brown’s website on 2019 Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) includes details on the University’s actions to protect the health of the campus community and general information about the virus. LEARN MORE COVID-19 FAQs for Graduate Students can be found here Recent News Prof. Paul Williard receives 2022 Salomon Award March 10, 2022 Environmentally Safe (green) Chemical Reactions to Prepare Antiviral & Ion Channel Blocker Analogs Read More News Type: Research Prof. Ming Xian elected as AAAS Fellow January 28, 2022 Professor Ming Xian, along with four other Brown University faculty members, has been elected as an American Association for the Advancement of Science fellow. The AAAS honored Professor Xian with this fellowship for his "distinguished contributions to the chemistry and chemical biology of reactive sulfur species." You read about Professor Xian and the other Brown faculty's AAAS fellowship awards here. Read More Recent Publications Wang Group "Probing the Nature of the Transition-Metal Boron Bonds and Novel Aromaticity in Small Metal-Doped Boron Clusters Using Photoelectron spectroscopy" T. T. Chen, L. F. Cheung, and L. S. Wang Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem 2022 doi.org/10.1146/annurev-physchem-082820-113041 Robinson Group ""A General Design Strategy Enabling the Synthesis of Hydrolysis-Resistant, Water-stable Titanium(IV) Complexes." " Koller, A. J.; Saini, S.; Chaple, I. F.; Joaqui-Joaqui, M. A.; Paterson, B. M.; Ma, M. T.; BloKoller, A. J.; Saini, S.; Chaple, I. F.; Joaqui-Joaqui, M. A.; Paterson, B. M.; Ma, M. T.; Blowewer, P. J.; Pierre, V. C.; Robinson, J.R.; Lapi, S. E.; Boros, E. Angew. Chem. Int. Edit. 2022 doi.org/10.1002/anie.202201211 Dr. Jesse Morin "Pivoting to Remote Learning: An Inquiry-Based Laboratory Closed Gaps in Self-Efficacy and Science Identity Between Students from Underrepresented Groups and Their Counterparts" (L. A. Wilczek, M. Guerrero Martínez, K. B. Sreenivasan, and J. B. Morin) Journal of Chemical Education 2022 doi.org/10.1021/acs.jchemed.2c0006 Delaney Group "Kinetic analysis of the effect of N-terminal acetylation on thymine DNA glycosylase" Tarantino, M. E., and Delaney, S. Biochemistry 2022 doi.org/10.1021/acs.biochem.1c00823 Wang Group "Expanded Inverse-Sandwich Complexes of Lanthanum Borides: La2B10– and La2B11–" Z. Y.Jiang, T. T. Chen, W. J. Chen, W. L. Li, J. Li, and L. S. Wang J. Phys. Chem. A 2021 125 DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpca.1c01149 View All Announcements Congratulations Class of 2022 View the Chemistry Department 2022 Graduates! Department of Chemistry Department of Chemistry Brown University Box H 324 Brook Street Thayer Street at MacMillan Lawn Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2321 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top