Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Drugs for Celiac Disease May Be on the Horizon May 12, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email The only safe and effective treatment for celiac disease is to avoid food and drinks that contain gluten, a protein found naturally in wheat, barley, and rye. But that’s easier said than done: Gluten is everywhere. Not only is gluten found in obvious places—pasta, bread, and beer—it can hide in candy bars, tortillas, and soy sauce. The sheer ubiquity of gluten in the world means that a truly gluten-free diet is nearly impossible to achieve. “A gluten-free diet is by no means a cure-all,” says Benjamin Lebwohl, MD, director of clinical research at the Celiac Disease Center at Columbia University and associate professor of medicine at the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons and of epidemiology at the Mailman School of Public Health. “When surveyed, about 20% of people with celiac disease will tell you that they don't feel well at that moment, and the most common reason is recent inadvertent gluten exposure,” says Lebwohl. Adhering to a strict gluten-free diet also comes with social costs, particularly when eating out and traveling. “For these reasons, many companies and researchers are looking for drugs to treat celiac disease in addition to—or instead of—the gluten-free diet.” What is Celiac Disease? Celiac disease, a chronic digestive and immune disorder triggered by ingesting gluten, affects an estimated nearly one in 100 people worldwide. In the United States, approximately 2 million individuals—many whose condition remains undiagnosed—are thought to live with celiac disease. Drug therapy In the past decade, the landscape of drug therapy for celiac disease has evolved from a mere concept to more than a dozen candidate medications in trials with patients. Some of the candidates work by preventing the consequences of accidental gluten exposure. For example, latiglutenase is taken with meals and contains enzymes that break down gluten in the stomach, rendering the protein non-toxic to patients with celiac disease. Larazotide, on the other hand, works by protecting the inner lining of the small intestine from components of gluten that pass through the gastrointestinal tract. Lastly, a yet-unnamed drug known as PRG-015 is meant to dampen the body’s inflammatory response upon exposure to small amounts of gluten. All three of these compounds are being tested in ongoing clinical trials at Columbia. A second category of drugs attempts to re-educate the patient’s immune system so it no longer reacts to gluten. Volunteers at Columbia recently took part in an early phase study of KAN-101, a therapy that administers small fragments of gluten to people with celiac disease, packaged in a way to promote tolerance. If found to be effective, this category of medication may allow people with celiac disease to eat gluten without harmful consequences. Benjamin Lebwohl Columbia’s Celiac Disease Center has an active clinical research program that is recruiting volunteers to participate in several trials for these potential treatments. “None of this progress would be possible without dedicated patient volunteers who are motivated to participate in clinical trials,” Lebwohl says. “Our goal is to have a diversity of trials so that we can be at the forefront of the most promising therapies for celiac disease.” Lebwohl feels optimistic that clinical trials could lead to the approval of at least one of these candidate drugs within the next decade. “The number of drugs in development and the variety of mechanisms make it likely that one of these approaches will allow for a safe and effective non-dietary therapy to emerge,” he says. References People who have celiac disease and are interested in participating in clinical trials at The Celiac Disease Center at Columbia University should send an email to celiacresearch@cumc.columbia.edu. Benjamin Lebwohl, MD, MS, also is a gastroenterologist at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top