Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content News Contact Us Experts Latest News Latest News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Broadcast Studio Research ☰ Featured News SMU News Featured News SMU Presents Honorary Degree to Pioneering Dallas Civic and Arts Leader Anita N. Martinez SMU Presents Honorary Degree to Pioneering Dallas Civic and Arts Leader Anita N. Martinez May 19, 2022 Dancers from Anita N. Martinez Ballet Folklorico regularly perform in SMU’s annual Homecoming parade. DALLAS (SMU) – SMU presented the honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree to longtime Dallas leader Anita N. Martinez at SMU’s May 14 commencement ceremonies, honoring her dedication to enriching the civic and cultural life of the city. “Receiving this honor was a crowning achievement for her and our family,” said Martinez’ son, Al Martinez. In 1969, Martinez became the first Mexican-American woman elected to the Dallas City Council, as well as the first elected to any major city council, but her passion for her community began much earlier. As a 14-year-old, the fifth-generation Texan led her first campaign, collecting signatures for the pavement of Pearl Street in the Dallas community known as “Little Mexico.” SMU President R. Gerald Turner (right) presented Dallas civic and arts leader Anita N. Martinez (center) with the honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree at SMU’s May 14 commencement ceremonies. Brandilyn Stigler, (back) faculty marshal, presented the doctoral hood as Elizabeth Russ, (left) SMU associate professor of Spanish and chair of world languages and literatures, looked on. She was the first member of her family to graduate from high school and attended courses at SMU’s Dallas College, a downtown extension program popular in the 1930-40s. Later, as councilwoman, the now 96-year-old led campaigns for a new recreation center in West Dallas, now named in her honor, and for the founding of the Los Barrios Unidos Community Clinic. In addition, her leadership secured the funding for a much-needed renovation of Pike Park in West Dallas. “She is a collaborator,” said Al Martinez. “As the only woman on the City Council, she was able to get the other members to work with her for the best for Dallas. She used her political muscle and voice to elevate people who had none.” After two terms on the Dallas City Council, Martinez chose to improve her community through the performing arts, establishing the Anita N. Martinez Ballet Folkorico in 1975 as way to educate Hispanic youth on the significance of their culture through traditional cultural dances from regions in Mexico, Central America and the American Southwest. As a little girl growing up in Dallas’ “Little Mexico,” Anita Martinez took dance and theater classes from a neighbor, her son said. When neighbors applauded after she and her friends performed on her front porch, she remembered how special she felt. Her goal in creating her own ballet folklorico program was to bring that same confidence to other children. “About a year after students begin dancing, they become comfortable with themselves,” Al Martinez said. “They learn that they matter. It’s a game-changer for the students and their families. At Anita N. Martinez Ballet Folklorico, training and performances reflect history, geography, physical fitness and culture. The program, which continues to thrive, also offers classes for those age three to adult, hosts a performance company and presents educational performances for young audiences that have been seen by more than one million schoolchildren in the past 10 years. Dancers from Anita N. Martinez Ballet Folklorico regularly perform in SMU’s annual Homecoming Parade. Anita Martinez’ papers are part of SMU’s DeGolyer Library Archives of Women of the Southwest. The Honorary Degree Committee of the SMU Faculty Senate recommends nominees for the honor each year. The Faculty Senate then votes and forwards the nominee(s) to the University president for review and final approval by the SMU Board of Trustees. SMU’s first honorary degree was presented in 1918. ### SMU News Broadcast Studio Contact Us SMU Research Blog Experts News Archives Featured News Research Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share