Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW Graduate Programs 97,914 square miles. 600,000 people. One university producing graduates as varied as our topography. Welcome to Wyoming—a state that has poured its heart and soul into its singular doctoral-granting university. UW is a proud land grant institution and as such embraces the imperative to create, disseminate and put knowledge to work. We are what Wyoming and the world needs us to be: an ag college, an engineering college, a college of law, business, education and the arts. We offer 90 graduate programs and 80 undergraduate, conduct research on topics as diverse as obesity and renewable energy and attract tens of millions of dollars annually in external research funding.* More importantly, we welcome the restless seekers and creators and individualists, who recognize that the winds of inspiration blow fiercely where ideas have room to roam. COVID-19 Resources We are committed to providing our students with up to date resources surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic. Office of Graduate Education Covid-19 Related Information Academic Affairs Covid-19 Q&A UW's Official Page for Covid-19 Communication ADMISSION PROCESS How do I get admitted? Each graduate program has its own admission requirements, application processes and deadlines. You MUST contact your graduate program directly to inquire about specific requirements and processes. Some programs admit new graduate students to start only in the fall semester. Admission decisions will be made by the respective graduate programs and eligibility for enrollment will be verified by the UW Admissions Office, including the receipt of all needed official transcripts and documents. Learn more about graduate degrees. Students not admitted, or who do not wish to pursue immediate admission to a graduate program may choose to pursue graduate coursework as a non-degree seeking graduate student. Be sure to check with Admissions to learn more about the limitations of this option. Next Steps Tuition & Fees The estimated cost of graduate attendance can be found at: Cost of Attendance International Student Requirements In addition to completing your academic program's requirements, all international students must provide the following: OFFICIAL ACADEMIC TRANSCRIPTS FINANCIAL STATEMENT ENGLISH PROFICIENCY Discover More at UW Additional Information 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility