Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Middle Grades Education MEd You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Middle Grades Education MEd Apply Visit Request More Info Middle Grades Education MEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty PRAXIS & Prerequisites Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Middle Grades Education Master of Education The Master of Education (MEd) in Middle Grades trains graduate students to guide learners through grades 4 through 8 and prepare them for the demands of high school. Certification prepares graduates to teach in both upper elementary and middle grades classrooms. Students graduate with a solid foundation in learning and teaching and a strong commitment to serving pre-adolescent learners from diverse economic, ethnic and geographic backgrounds. The Middle Grades MEd program focuses on building deep, content-specific pedagogical knowledge aligned to the wide-ranging academic standards and developmental needs of middle grades students. Applicants to the Middle Grades Education MEd who are interested in earning certification through a full-time, urban-focused STEM teacher residency may also explore Temple’s Teacher Residency program. Concentrations In addition to becoming certified to teach all elementary subjects in grades four to six, you must pursue single or dual certification for seventh and eighth grades in one of the following concentrations. Language Arts Develop an in-depth understanding of language arts as well as the skills necessary to effectively manage a classroom and the development of various learners. Nurture active learning, critical thinking and real-world connections in an environment open to all populations. Through cultivated competency, you’ll gain increased awareness and understanding of educator professionalism. View Concentration Details Mathematics Acquire comprehensive knowledge of social studies and mathematics and the most impactful ways in which your students might form a deep content understanding. Develop, create and execute lessons that foster coherence and continuity, active learning, and reflective thinking. View Concentration Details Mathematics and Language Arts Gain a deep understanding of social studies and language arts and develop the skills to effectively manage a classroom. Foster critical and reflective thinking and an understanding of real-world connections in your students. Develop professional approaches to education and acquire the tools to create and execute lessons that promote and encourage active learning. View Concentration Details Mathematics and Science Pursue dual certification in mathematics and science teaching. This program emphasizes teaching math and science to students in grades 7 and 8. Study the fundamentals of education theory, natural and empirical science education, and the basis of algebra, calculus and geometry. View Concentration Details Science Form an in-depth understanding of the field of science and cultivate competency in enacting lesson plans that foster deep content understanding, coherence and continuity, critical thinking, real- world connections, active learning, and reflective thinking in your future student populations. Increase your awareness and understanding of educator professionalism and acquire the skills needed to lead a classroom. View Concentration Details Science and Language Arts Earn certification to teach all subjects to students in grades 4 through 6, plus certification to teach science and language arts to students in grades 7 and 8. Focus on teaching and learning literacy, scientific principles, and historical and modern literature. View Concentration Details Social Studies Acquire the skills and knowledge necessary to form a comprehensive understanding of social studies and lead a diverse classroom of learners. Develop an approach that fosters deep understanding of the subject matter as well as skills in active learning, critical thinking and making connections to the real world. Gain professional expertise and increase your own awareness and coherence. View Concentration Details Social Studies and Language Arts Gain a deep understanding of social studies and language arts and develop the skills to effectively manage a classroom. Foster critical and reflective thinking and an understanding of real-world connections in your students. Develop professional approaches to education and acquire the tools to create and execute lessons that promote and encourage active learning. View Concentration Details Social Studies and Mathematics Acquire comprehensive knowledge of social studies and mathematics and the most impactful ways in which your students might form a deep content understanding. Develop, create and execute lessons that foster coherence and continuity, active learning, and reflective thinking. View Concentration Details Social Studies and Science Form an in-depth understanding of the field of science and cultivate competency in enacting lesson plans that foster deep content understanding, coherence and continuity, critical thinking, real- world connections, active learning, and reflective thinking in your future student populations. Increase your awareness and understanding of educator professionalism and acquire the skills needed to lead a classroom. View Concentration Details Teacher Certification This program prepares you to successfully complete state certification exams, allowing you to apply for a Pennsylvania Instructional I Teaching Certificate. Learn more about certification. Fieldwork In addition to state certification exams and student teaching, you must complete field experiences as part of your coursework. Field placements are designed to give you teaching experience working with children in educational and non-educational settings. The majority of field experiences require students to spend seven full days over the course of a semester in the classroom. During the student teaching semester, students are required to spend every day in the classroom for 14 weeks. Classes & Curriculum Choose to complete the Middle Grades MEd program on a full- or part-time basis. Most classes are scheduled in the evenings to accommodate working professionals. Related Graduate Degrees Early Childhood Education MEd Early Childhood and Special Education MEd Secondary Education MEd Special Education MEd Related Graduate Certificates Autism Endorsement English as a Second Language Instructional Learning Technology Review the full list of the College of Education and Human Development’s graduate degree and graduate certificate programs. Student Clubs & Organizations Find peer support and leadership opportunities while tackling the challenges of your program. You'll also find opportunities to give back to the community, either locally or globally. Students can join the Temple University Graduate Students Association, a student employee union that maintains positive working lives and conditions for graduate student assistants. Temple Student Pennsylvania State Education Association, which hosts events to share effective classroom techniques and other resources for developing teachers. Search for additional College of Education and Human Development and education-related student organizations. Program Contact Tim Fukawa-Connelly, associate professor of teaching and learning, is the faculty program coordinator for the Middle Grades Education MEd. Phone: 215-204-6206 Email: tim.fc@temple.edu Our Advisors A graduate academic advisor will be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to ensure your smooth passage through the program. In addition, you will be assigned a faculty advisor who will guide you in achieving your academic and professional goals. Certification The Middle Grades Education MEd program is approved as a teacher certification program by the Pennsylvania Department of Education. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-MGRE-MED Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Middle Grades Education MEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty PRAXIS & Prerequisites Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info