Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close HOME Admission Visit Discover BC Discover Boston College: Virtual Open House Join the Office of Undergraduate Admission for Discover Boston College, a month-long virtual open house for prospective first-year students and their families. Each week, we'll feature sessions on various topics including admission and financial aid advice, academics, student life, and more. Explore this website for a full list of sessions and their descriptions. We hope to "see" you soon! RSVP for Discover Boston College Program Schedule View on-demand recordings from past sessions. Registration Instructions September 14 - 19 September 20 - 26 September 27 - October 3 October 4 - October 10 October 11 - October 17 Register for each session through the Discover Boston College RSVP form. To add or remove sessions to your schedule, please use the "update your itinerary" link which can be found in your event confirmation email. To best take advantage of this program, we recommend choosing 1-2 sessions per week to attend, although there is no maximum to how many you can sign up for! Sessions will be offered each week in the following categories: Admission Advice: During these sessions, undergraduate admission staff will offer opinions and insights on navigating the application process, applying for financial aid, and more. Student Life: Each program features a different panel of current undergraduate students and highlights topics ranging from residential life to academic culture. AHANA Resources: AHANA is an acronym used to describe people of African, Hispanic, Asian, and Native American descent in the Boston College community. These sessions explore finding community and support as a student of color at BC. Faculty Conversations: Hear from BC faculty members on their teaching style, mentoring relationships with students, exciting research they are doing with undergraduates, and why they love working with Boston College students. For Parents: Boston College administrators offer advice geared towards the parents and families of prospective students and applicants. We plan to record all sessions for on-demand playback. Recorded sessions will be available on this website within 5-7 business days. Week 1 Schedule: Applying to College in the COVID-19 Era This program serves as the introduction to Discover Boston College. Hear from Grant Gosselin, director of undergraduate admission, on changes to the college search process and BC’s application review in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. Recording Now Available Navigating the College Transition as Parents: Finding Your Place Socially A live panel of Boston College administrators discuss what leads college students to achieve a healthy and fulfilling experience outside of the classroom. Recording Now Available Coffee and Conversations with BC Faculty: Prasannan Parthasarathi, Associate Professor and Department Chair of History, and Juliet Schor, Professor of Sociology This session will feature insights from Boston College faculty members: Prasannan Parthasarathi, associate professor and department chair of the history department, and Juliet Schor, associate director of sociology. Recording Now Available How College Decisions are Made: Dissecting the Application Join admission staff for an in-depth review of the application process. Admission counselors will discuss how academic and extracurricular credentials are reviewed within the context of an applicant pool of 30,000, as well as share what information in an application can be helpful as they make decisions. Recording Now Available Week 2 Schedule: Boston College at Work: BC students discuss research, graduate school and career resources We’re proud to share that over 95% of BC graduates are employed, pursuing graduate programs, or engaged in service work within six months of graduation. During this session, BC undergrads will discuss their career discernment and resources available for them to dive deeper into their academic or career interests. Recording Now Available The AHANA Student Experience: Conversations with Students and Faculty Join BC students and faculty for a live panel discussion on finding community, academic support, and other resources as a student of color at BC. Recording Now Available Focus on Residence Life: BC students discuss all aspects of living on campus What is it like to live on a college campus? Current undergraduates share stories about living in the BC residence halls. Fun fact – over 95% of seniors choose to live on Boston College’s campus! Recording Now Available Navigating the College Transition as Parents: Academics A live panel of Boston College administrators offer advice on the adjustment to college coursework and finding the right path academically. Recording Now Available Coffee and Conversations with BC Faculty: Danielle Taghian, Associate Professor in Biology and Pre-Health Chair, & Philip Landrigan, Director of Global Public Health This session will feature insights from Boston College faculty members: Danielle Taghian, associate professor of the practice in the biology department and chair of the pre-health advising committee, and Philip J. Landrigan, director of global public health and the common good and the Global Observatory on Pollution Recording Now Available Early Decision, Human-Centered Engineering, and the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program Learn more about the deadlines and benefits of Early Decision and the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program. We will also discuss application details for our new Human-Centered Engineering major. Recording Now Available Week 3 Schedule: Retreats and Reflections: Students discuss BC’s Jesuit identity and mission Boston College’s Jesuit identity and mission is an important part of our students’ experience. Hear from current students on BC’s retreat culture and what it’s like to attend a Jesuit, Catholic university. Recording Now Available The AHANA Student Experience: Conversations with Students and Faculty Join BC students and faculty for a live panel discussion on finding community, academic support, and other resources as a student of color at BC. (Interested students should select from one of three recurring sessions: 09/22, 09/29, 10/06.) Recording Now Available From Welcome Week to Senior Week: Students talk about the important traditions and events at BC During this session, current students share what events and milestones they look forward to each year. Recording Now Available Coffee and Conversations with BC Faculty: Angela Ards, Associate Professor of English, & Luke Jorgensen, Associate Professor of Theatre This session will feature insights from the following Boston College faculty members: Angela Ards, associate professor in the english department, and Luke Jorgensen, associate professor of the practice and chairperson of the theatre department. Saturday, October 3 / 11 a.m. (Faculty Conversations) Recording Now Available Unique Populations: Applying as a Recruited Athlete or Homeschooled Student, and Learning Disability Resources How does an admissions committee review applications from students with unique academic circumstances? This session will focus on how we evaluate candidates with varied circumstances including learning differences, taking significant college level courses, or enrollment in non-traditional academic programs. Recording Now Available Week 4 Schedule: Focus on Academic Life: BC students discuss their big academic decisions around majors, courses, and studying abroad With four undergraduate academic divisions and over 100 majors, minors, and concentrations to choose from, there’s a lot to consider. During this session, students share how they navigated the academic landscape at BC. Recording Now Available The AHANA Student Experience: Conversations with Students and Faculty Join BC students and faculty for a live panel discussion on finding community, academic support, and other resources as a student of color at BC. (Interested students should select from one of three recurring sessions: 09/22, 09/29, 10/06.) Recording Now Available A BC student’s guide to their first year: Students discuss how they found all the resources to succeed in year one From living in a residence hall to adjusting to new academic rigors, there’s a lot of change during the first year (particularly in the first few weeks). Boston College offers distinctive resources for students as they transition from high school to college. Hear from students on how they found support in and outside of the classroom. Recording Now Available Navigating the College Transition as Parents: Athletic Recruiting and Resources During COVID-19 A live panel of representatives from Boston College Athletics offer tips for parents when helping students find their right athletic fit - whether that be at the varsity, club or intramural / recreational level - during the COVID-19 pandemic. Recording Now Available Coffee and Conversations with BC Faculty: Gabriella Oliveira, Assistant Professor in the Lynch School of Education, and Stephen Pope, Professor in Theology This session will feature insights Boston College faculty member: Gabriella Oliveira, assistant professor of teaching, curriculum, and society in the Lynch School of Education, and Stephen Pope, associate professor in theology. Saturday, October 10 / 11 a.m. (Faculty Conversations) Applying for Financial Aid at Boston College Boston College practices need-blind admission and meets 100% of a student’s demonstrated financial need. But what does that really mean? Hear more on the ins and outs of financial aid at Boston College. Recording Now Available Week 5 Schedule: Demystifying the Application Process for Underrepresented Students Join admission staff for an overview of the admission process. This session is open to all students but geared towards applicants from underrepresented backgrounds, which may include AHANA, first-generation, or low-income students. Recording Now Available Clubs, Organizations and Social Life at BC: No Greek Life, no problem! How do students find community at a university with 9,000+ undergraduate students? With nearly 300 clubs and organizations, an active intramural, club sport, and Division I athletics culture, and the city of Boston, there are plenty of ways to get involved and stay connected. Wednesday, October 14 / 8 p.m. (Student Life) Navigating the College Transition as Parents: Understanding Boston College's Mission Boston College administrators discuss how the mission of the university shapes our community. Recording Now Available Coffee and Conversations with BC Faculty: Tracey L. Regan, Professor of the Practice and Director of Undergraduate Studies in Economics, and Ed Taylor, Senior Lecturer & Assistant Chairperson in Accounting This session will feature insights from BC faculty members: Tracey L. Regan, professor of the practice and director of undergraduate studies in economics, and Ed Taylor, senior lecturer and assistant chairperson in accounting. Saturday, October 17 / 11 a.m. (Faculty Conversations) Closing Session: Final Q&A with the Admission Staff We’ve shared a lot with you this month, but we know you may still have some unanswered questions. Join the admission staff ahead of the November 1 Early Decision and priority scholarship deadline for a final session to address any last minute questions about Boston College or the admission process. Saturday, October 17 / 4 p.m. (Admission Advice) Featured Sessions Current BC students discuss their favorite campus traditions. From Welcome Week to Senior Week and everything in between, there are so many calendar highlights to look forward to. Administrators from Campus Ministry, Mission & Ministry, and the PULSE Program for Service Learning discuss Boston College's mission and identity as a Jesuit, Catholic University. Members of the Undergraduate Admission staff discuss the advantages of applying Early Decision and share information about the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program and BC's new Human-Centered Engineering major. Admission and finanical aid staff discuss Boston College's approach to need-based financial aid and offer insights into how the financial aid process may vary among colleges and universities. Angela Ards, associate professor in english, and Luke Jorgensen, associate professor in theatre, discuss their academic focuses and reflect on their roles as mentors to Boston College students. Hear from a panel of BC students and faculty on finding community and support as an AHANA student. (AHANA is an acronym used to describe people of African, Hispanic, Asian, and Native American descent in the BC community.) Discover Boston College Session Library Additional Resources Return to Admission Homepage Find Your Admission Counselor Apply to BC Financial Aid & Affordability View Majors and Minors Take a virtual tour of campus: Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College