Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Burnett Honors College News UCF Student to Conduct Research at Mayo Clinic After Graduation Biomedical sciences student Justin Barthel has spent his time at UCF pursuing excellence in scholarship, research and service while working on his goal of becoming a physician. 10 UCF Students Recognized by NSF Graduate Research Fellowships Program A Google co-founder and other changemakers have received these awards in the past. Two of the awardees graduate this spring. Student Research Week: The Power of TikTok in Self-expression Undergraduate student Lindsey Wright explores the use of audios and hashtags on TikTok and how their use reflects self-identity. 26 Exemplary Students Awarded 2022 Order of Pegasus Awarded each spring, the Order of Pegasus is UCF’s most prestigious student honor. Student Research Week Kicks off March 28 with a Whole New Look and Feel After decades of following the same format, Research Week has been reimagined to enhance the student experience. General Dynamics Mission Systems Donates Mixed Reality Headsets to UCF The headsets will serve students across a range of disciplines, including arts, hospitality, medicine and teaching. UCF Awards COVID-19 Vaccine Developer Darin Edwards Honorary Degree The three-time UCF graduate was recognized by university leadership for his “extraordinary contributions to humanity.” A Look Back on 50 Years of UCF Homecoming UCF celebrates its golden anniversary of the most spirited week on campus. 2021 Another Record Year – Five Consecutive Years of Rising Research Funding UCF sees a record $212.9 million in research awards, which translates into innovation that makes an impact. UCF Programming Team Places in Top 20 at World Finals in Moscow Trio of computer science graduates shine at the “Olympic Games” of algorithmic programming. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida