Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Division of Medical Sciences Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Harvard Medical School Search About Welcome Our Students Alumni Contact Us Program Curriculum Lab Rotations Student Advisory System Individual Development Plan Dissertation Advisory Committee Dissertation Guidelines Student Resources Financial Support Health and Wellness Student Life Faculty Diversity News & Events Apply Faculty Current Students Welcome from the Virology Program Head It is an exciting time to study virology! In the last decade, we've seen new viruses—SARS, H1N1 influenza, and Nipah viruses among them—emerging around the world; Ebola Chikungunya, and West Nile viruses have re-emerged; and the AIDS epidemic continues to sweep across sub-Saharan Africa and parts of Asia. New vaccines for HIV, smallpox, avian influenza and genital herpes are sorely needed. New antivirals for Dengue, hepatitis C and HIV viruses are also desperately needed. The role of such viruses as Merkel cell polyoma, papilloma, Kaposi’s sarcoma and Epstein-Barr virus in human cancer highlight challenges to prevent and treat these diseases. READ MORE Virology Spotlight Virology Graduate Recipient of the 2022 Harold M. Weintraub Graduate Student Award March 1, 2022 Please join us in congratulating Brianna Duncan-Lowey, a 2022 graduate from the Virology program who has received the Harold M. Weintraub Graduate Student Award for 2022.... Read more about Virology Graduate Recipient of the 2022 Harold M. Weintraub Graduate Student Award How Pfizer Makes Its Covid-19 Vaccine April 29, 2021 This article from the New York Times illustrates the breadth of the molecular biology, virology, and immunology foundation for the mRNA vaccines. https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/health/pfizer-coronavirus-vaccine.html Read more about How Pfizer Makes Its Covid-19 Vaccine How a mutated coronavirus evades immune system defenses March 16, 2021 A new study led by Harvard Medical School scientists offers a look into this interplay, shedding light on the ways in which compromised immunity may render SARS-CoV-2 fitter and capable of evading the immune system. The study's first author, Sarah Clark, is a member of the Abraham lab and a fourth-year student in the Ph.D. Program in Virology.... Read more about How a mutated coronavirus evades immune system defenses DMS CSS Virology Twitter VirologyHarvard @fredhutch @HarmitMalik @HutchBasicSci @americanacad Congratulations! 1 month 3 days ago. Follow Virology on Twitter 754da32836bd03139964a05fb36168df Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement