Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Risk Management Emergency Management & Fire Safety Emergency Management & Fire Safety Emergency Management Fire Safety Environmental Health & Safety Environmental Health & Safety Occupational Safety Occupational Health Research & Education Safety Training Services International & Domestic Travel International & Domestic Travel Faculty Staff Travel Health, Safety, & Emergencies International Health & Safety Resources Student Resources Travel to a Restricted Region Risk & Insurance Risk & Insurance Incident Reporting Third Party Event Insurance Information Insurance Programs Protection of Minors Program Strategic Risk Assessment Travel University Driving Programs Resources Resources About Event Safety Topics (A-Z) Training ☰ Office of Risk Management ORM Risk & Insurance Protection of Minors Program Protection of Minors Program SMU welcomes many students, employees, and visitors to campus every day and seeks to maintain an inviting, safe, and secure environment for those on campus or engaged in SMU-sponsored activities. In 2012, Texas passed legislation that requires employees of campus programs for minors attend a training and examination program that addresses the warning signs of sexual abuse and child molestation. Overview Any person who may come in contact with minors through the course of their involvement with SMU, an SMU organization, or an event on SMU's campus, must complete the required Protection of Minors training and comply with the Program. Please reference additional content on this page related to the following: Each Camp Operator must demonstrate compliance with Texas law and SMU policies and procedures related to the Protection of Minors Program at least two days prior to the start of any camp. Camp Coordinators must monitor the compliance of camps they oversee. All individuals with an SMU ID can take the Protection of Minors required training through LawRoom, which Human Resources and the Office of Risk Management can facilitate. Individuals not affiliated with SMU can take the required training through any state-approved vendor. The Office of Risk Management can help facilitate this. The Protection of Minors Program is jointly managed by the Office of Risk Management (ORM) and Human Resources (HR) based on established procedures. These procedures may be viewed here. For more information on Protection of Minors Training for SMU employees, students, and temporary workers, please reference the Human Resources website on this subject. Minors Online Programming Guidelines For those who are conducting online programs that involve minors; visit Online Programs for Minors. Training Requirements State Requirements This training is required by law for any employee working for a camp program that offers recreational, athletic, religious, or educational activities for those not enrolled at SMU and that is operated by or on the SMU campus. Read Texas Senate Bill 1414. SMU Requirements SMU has partnered with the Dallas Children's Advocacy Center (DCAC), a Texas-approved training provider, to host their training on SMU's vendor training platform with Lawroom as well as other platforms and mediums."Recognizing and Reporting Child Abuse," referred to as "Protection of Minors," is required to be completed every two years by any person who may come in contact with minors through the course of their employment or involvement with SMU, an SMU organization, or an event on SMU's campus. It is the goal of SMU to exceed state requirements in this area. For reporting purposes on the State Reporting Form, the course completion information for the training program should be identified as Dallas Children's Advocacy Center with a program code of YCO8-0043. Program Coordinator and Camp Operator Responsibilities Program Coordinator Responsibilities The SMU Program Coordinators are responsible for keeping a copy of the State Reporting Form for training compliance with the associated camp records. SMU Program Coordinators should educate the Camp Operators on the State Requirement and request the copy of the State reporting form from the Camp Operator. Once received, the Program Coordinator should immediately forward a copy of the form to ORM at riskmanagement@smu.edu including this information in the email: Camp Title Date Form Received Date of Camp Camp Operator Name Program Coordinator Name and Contact information Camp Operator Responsibilities Camp Operators are responsible for ensuring that they and their employees and volunteers are compliant with SMU's Protection of Minors procedures. Camp Operators should complete the State required form and send it to the Texas Department of State Health Services (see link under Resources below), with a copy to their SMU Program Coordinator. This must be completed at least two days prior to the start of camp. If the Camp Operator is an SMU employee, and the employees or volunteers at the camp have SMU IDs, this training can be facilitated through LawRoom. For those without an SMU ID, this can be facilitated through DCAC or procured another state-approved training program. More information on how SMU can facilitate this training is below. Protection of Minors Training SMU Employees The Human Resources department facilitates Protection of Minors Training for all SMU employees, including student workers and temporary workers, through LawRoom. This training is required to be completed within the first 90 days of employment, and every two years thereafter. More information can be found on the Human Resources website. SMU Students The Office of Risk Management and Human Resources facilitate Protection of Minors Training for SMU students as needed through LawRoom. If you are a student who has been assigned Protection of Minors Training by an SMU representative in a capacity other than through the course of your employment for SMU, please contact ORM to request the training, including your full name, email address, and SMU ID. If you are affiliated with SMU and would like to assign Protection of Minors to students who will be working or volunteering at a camp, clinic, or event involving minors, please email ORM at riskmanagement@smu.edu, and request a template to provide the required information, including participant names, email addresses, and SMU ID numbers of all participants. Unaffiliated with SMU Camp Operators are responsible for ensuring that their employees or volunteers have completed the state-required training within the past two years before the start of the camp and for submitting the state required form to the Texas Department of State Health Services (see link under Resources). They should provide a copy of the completed/submitted Department of State Health Services Campus Program for the Protection of Minors form to the SMU Program Coordinator before the start of the camp. The SMU Program Coordinator should retain a copy of the form in their departmental files. If Non-SMU employees or volunteers have not successfully completed a state approved training program within two years of the start of the first day of the camp, the Camp Operator can request access to the DCAC Training Program for each of the employees or volunteers through ORM by sending an email request to riskmanagement@smu.edu. The subject line for this request should include “Camp-Protection of Minors Training.” The request should include: Name of Camp Operator Name of Camp An excel file of those who must take the training including first and last name, and valid email Dates of Camp Program Coordinator and Camp Operator Training Program Coordinator and Camp Operator Training The Office of Risk Management hosts information sessions in conjunction with several other offices covering SMU practices and procedures for Program Coordinators, SMU employees who oversee the management of camps, conferences, clinics, and events on campus, and Camp Operators . This in-person session offers instruction on who needs to be informed (in addition to those required by state law), compliance practices for Camp Operators, case studies, as well as records management procedures, and is offered annually in the spring or by request. Resources SMU Resources SMU Policy 7.26 Duty to Report Suspected Child Abuse and Mandatory Training & Examination Program for Employees of Campus Programs for Minors on Warning Signs of Sexual Abuse and Child Molestation SMU Office of Legal Affairs Briefing: Duty to Report Suspected Child Abuse Proof of Completion for Employees: Generate My.SMU Training Summary State of Texas Resources Senate Bill 1414 Texas State Family Code Texas Approved Training Vendor List Department of State Health Services Campus Program for Minors Training Completion Reporting Form Other SMU Resources for a Safe and Secure Campus Stop Harassment and Discrimination training tutorial Preventing Workplace Violence Office of Institutional Access and Equity Office of Human Resources Policy 7.26 Duty to Report Online Programs for Minors Risk & Insurance Incident Reporting Third Party Event Insurance Information Insurance Programs Protection of Minors Program Strategic Risk Assessment Travel University Driving Programs Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share