Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Music Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Music Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Music Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Music Undergraduate Certificate Gain a range of musical knowledge with the Music Undergraduate Certificate in Temple University's Boyer College of Music and Dance. Certificate students develop expertise in music history, theory and performance. The Music Undergraduate Certificate affords students a flexible curriculum with two options for completing coursework. The more intensive Music A option comprises 15 credit hours and includes advanced music theory as well as coursework on the history, style and musical forms of the Baroque period. The Music B option consists of 12 credit hours and includes courses on the history of jazz and American popular music and a more basic music theory course geared toward non-Music majors. All students take part in choral and instrumental ensembles as well as individual piano lessons. If you are interested in the Music Undergraduate Certificate, you must be in good standing and have completed at least 15 credits at Temple by the initial requested semester of certificate coursework. Classes & Curriculum For the 15-credit Music A option, courses include American Musical Theater, Music In History and Topics in Music Theory. For the 12-credit Music B option, courses include American Popular Music, History of Jazz, Music Theory for Non-Majors and Pop Song Writing. You will choose one elective course. All students have the same elective options, including Choral Ensemble, Instrumental Ensemble and Private Piano for Non-Music Majors. Learn more about Music Undergraduate Certificate courses. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Choral Ensembles Choral Ensembles Nearly 200 students each year participate in choral ensembles that have received national and regional acclaim for their performances, both collectively and individually. Students can earn one credit for most of the ensembles. Consider joining an ensemble, like the Concert Choir comprises undergraduate and graduate students at the Boyer College of Music and Dance. In addition to performing the great masterworks of the choral and orchestral canon, the choir performs a lot of new American choral music and has presented many first Philadelphia performances. Singing Owls, a mixed choir, is made up of Temple University alumni, faculty, staff and students as well as members of the greater Philadelphia community. The ensemble's primary goal is to create a dynamic and inclusive singing community through the appreciation and performance of music from diverse cultures, genres, places and time periods. University Chorale, a choir of men's voices, representing a wide range of majors within the Boyer and across the university. The chorale performs music of many cultures and times. In recent years, the choir has placed a special emphasis on contemporary American music, including works by Jeffery Ames, Carol Barnett, Eric William Barnum, Daniel Pinkham, Frank Ticheli and Z. Randall Stroope. Women's Chorus, a mixed choir of female students, representing a wide range of majors within the Boyer and across the university. The ensemble performs four times per year on campus as well as with the combined choirs and orchestra for the annual Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts concerts. Learn more about Temple University Choirs and other Boyer ensembles. Instrumental Ensembles Instrumental Ensembles Boyer students have opportunities to perform in more than 10 instrumental ensembles, made up of bands, orchestras and more. Ensembles include the Boyer College Electroacoustic Ensemble Project, which creates electroacoustic music in a collaborative environment. It functions as an electronic music band, a fusion of computers and traditional instruments, and a laptop orchestra. Chamber Orchestra, which performs larger chamber works in a true chamber music setting. The Chamber Orchestra generally performs one concert per semester and on occasion has joined with the Temple University Concert Choir in a combined performance. Diamond Marching Band, which performs at athletic events throughout the academic year, including traditional pregame shows and varied halftime shows throughout the season. The “Pride of the Cherry and White” marching band performs at all home games and also travels to select away games. Opera Orchestra, which accompanies Opera Theater each semester in a fully staged production. Percussion Ensemble, which provides a quality educational chamber music experience for its members, promotes the performance of percussion literature in a variety of styles, and encourages the composition of new works for the medium. Symphony Orchestra, an orchestra composed of undergraduate and graduate students. The orchestra has performed in recent years at the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts in Philadelphia, as well as Carnegie Hall and the Lincoln Center. Wind Symphony, an ensemble that comprises advanced graduate and undergraduate musicians and performs at least six formal concerts throughout the academic year. Learn more about instrumental studies ensembles and other Boyer ensembles. Jazz Ensembles Jazz Ensembles Boyer boasts a number of jazz ensembles that range in level and style. You also have the opportunity during the first two weeks of the semester to enroll in small jazz ensembles, coached by Jazz Studies faculty members. Temple University Jazz Band is Boyer’s premier jazz band. It performs on Temple’s Main Campus and throughout the Greater Philadelphia region, and it hosts the annual Essentially Ellington Eastern Regional High School Jazz Band Festival. Temple University Lab Band has served as the opening act for the Temple University Jazz Band’s Kimmel Center performances and as the headliner for the annual Big Band Dance swing dance held each spring in The Underground at the Howard Gittis Student Center. The band has also performed at the Temple Performing Arts Center and in Tomlinson Theater. Jazz Band Number Three provides an environment in which students can improve application and knowledge of ballad concepts, ensemble and section blend, expansion of dynamic range and rhythmic interpretation. The repertoire covers a wide chronological range, from the Count Basie and Duke Ellington catalogs to contemporary arrangements and compositions. Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Cynthia Folio is the chair of the Music Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-8316 Email: cfolio@temple.edu Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-MUSC-CERT Additional Program Information Available as a minor. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Music Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info