By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Cost & Aid Policies More from this Section Definitions Types of Aid Apply for Aid Contact Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Policies Academic Scholarship for Undergraduates Alcohol, Other Drugs, and Tobacco Policy Application Verification Award Limits Code of Conduct Consumer Information Contact Information Disbursement of Funds to Your Account Email Communications Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) Outside Scholarships and Grants Enrollment Policies for Undergraduate Students Penalties for Drug Law Violations Prior Bachelor's Degree Program Completion Renewing Financial Aid Awards Satisfactory Academic Progress – Federal and University – Undergraduate Satisfactory Academic Progress – Federal and University – Graduate Satisfactory Academic Progress – New York State Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) – Undergraduate Student Handbook Student Responsibilities Syracuse Students Planning to Attend Other Institutions in the U.S. or Abroad SUNY ESF Students Syracuse University Policies Tuition Credit Policy for Outside Agencies Veteran’s Benefits Adjustments to Financial Aid /Mid Semester Withdrawal (R2T4) HEA FAFSA Data Restriction Policy Federal Loan Information Sharing Return of Title IV Federal Student Financial Aid Funds Policy 1. Academic Scholarship for Undergraduates The value of an academic scholarship awarded during a student’s entering year remains the same in subsequent years. Awards may be revoked should a student fail to comply with the Code of Student Conduct and Academic Integrity standards. To continue to receive an academic scholarship, students must maintain Satisfactory Academic Progress in addition to fulfilling the following criteria: Maintain a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.75 Enroll as a full-time undergraduate each semester Complete at least 12 credits per semester during the academic year. Students have three semesters to meet the GPA requirement. If a student’s GPA falls below 2.75 after three semesters University-funded scholarships will not be renewed for the following academic year. 2. Alcohol, Other Drugs, and Tobacco Policy Read the Syracuse University Policy 3. Application Verification Federal financial aid eligibility is based on information submitted on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Undergraduate students must also file the CSS/PROFILE annually to be considered for Syracuse University funding. Tax returns that students and parents submit will be reviewed. You may be required to request a copy of his/her tax return from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The IRS will be instructed to send this information directly to our office. Parents who are married and file separate tax returns must provide a copy of both parents’ income tax returns. The value of all assets and businesses are reviewed for accuracy and will be adjusted if assets appear to be underreported. Income losses reported on the tax returns will be reviewed to determine the impact on the ability of the family to contribute to a student’s education. For undergraduate students, family includes the student’s parents and siblings. For graduate students, family includes the student, his/her spouse, and his/her children. Changes in the number of siblings attending college originally reported on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) will result in a review of a student’s financial aid award. This information will be verified. Adjustments may be made to the original award. All financial aid is subject to verification . At any time, if additional information conflicts with what was originally submitted on the CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE and/or the (FAFSA), or failure to submit requested verification documentation occurs, the original financial aid award may be adjusted or withdrawn. The Syracuse University Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs reserves the right to modify, change or alter a student’s financial aid award based upon new information, changes to institutional policy, funding levels, processing errors, etc. For the awarding of institutional funds, all undergraduate students who are admitted to the University as dependent students will be considered dependent for the duration of their undergraduate program. Students who are funded through a special program (Dependent Tuition, ROTC, Higher Education Opportunity Program, Tuition Exchange, Haudenosaunee Promise, Scholarship Athletes) will receive financial aid according to the policies and regulations associated with those programs. Syracuse University does not guarantee the accuracy of the TAP estimate and is unable to make up any difference between the estimate and the actual TAP award. Residents of states other than New York are sometimes allowed to use their state grants at Syracuse University. If a state grant is received that is not listed on the award notice, the student must notify the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs. 4. Award Limits Total Award Limits apply to the total of all financial aid a student may receive regardless of source (federal, state, institutional or private) or type of award (scholarships, grants, loans, need-based employment). The total award limit is the estimated cost of attendance and includes allowances for tuition, fees, room, board, books, personal expenses and transportation. No student is entitled to receive any financial aid in excess of the Total Award Limit. Need-Based Award Limits are limits calculated according to mandated formulas established by the Department of Education. A student who is receiving any need-based financial aid may not receive any awards (regardless of the selection criteria) above the need level established by these regulations. If a student receives an award which, in combination with all other awards, creates a total financial aid award in excess of the student’s financial need, then the need-based award must be reduced. Merit-based Award Limits Syracuse University merit scholarship recipients may combine their scholarship with other tuition-based awards, such as veteran’s benefits or state grants, but cannot exceed the amount of tuition for the academic year. In addition, for students receiving Syracuse University need-based grants or scholarships, the total financial aid award cannot exceed the Cost of Attendance. 5. Code of Conduct Syracuse University is committed to the highest standards of professional conduct and are dedicated to providing outstanding service to our students and families. Borrowing for college is a significant investment and decisions must be made with care. Our staff is expected to always maintain exemplary standards of professional conduct in all aspects of carrying out our responsibilities as financial aid professionals. Please review our code of conduct below. Contact us if you have any questions. Syracuse University will process federal loans through the federal government. Alternative loans will be processed through any lender the student/family chooses. We do not recommend specific lenders. Syracuse University does not recommend or assign lenders to any students. Financial Aid Office staff does not solicit or accept gifts from any lender in exchange for any advantage sought by a lender. We do not participate in any private loan or revenue sharing programs that restrict access to students and families. Financial Aid Office staff that serve on an advisory board relating to educational loans established by a lender or group of lenders are prohibited from accepting anything of value from the lender or group for such service. Lenders or other outside agencies are prohibited from providing services to the financial aid office. They are also prohibited from identifying themselves to students of the University and their parents as employees, representatives or agents of the Financial Aid Office. Financial Aid Office staff are also expected to follow to the Syracuse University Code of Ethical Conduct . 6. Consumer Information Visit the Syracuse University Student Consumer Information page to access important information about SU policies pertaining to financial aid, health and safety, and more. 7. Contact Information Syracuse University expects that students will provide accurate and timely information regarding their addresses, phone numbers, and other contact information. (See the Syracuse University Computing and Electronic Communications Policy .) 8. Disbursement of Funds to Your Account Financial aid is disbursed at the beginning of each term you are enrolled in. You may refer to MySlice for award amounts. Summer financial aid for graduate and law students will disburse at the beginning of the summer enrollment period. Summer financial aid for undergraduate students will disburse when they have begun 6 credits. Awards will not be disbursed if there are outstanding requests for additional information or other requirements are not met. Financial aid that has been disbursed will appear as a credit on the student’s Bursar bill . Federal and University financial aid will disburse to the student’s Bursar account when all financial aid and admissions requirements are met, including receipt of official degree bearing transcripts. Disbursement of institutional funds may be rescinded should a student fail to comply with the Code of Student Conduct and Academic Integrity standards. 9. Email Communications University-assigned student email accounts are Syracuse University’s official means of communication with all students. Students are responsible for all information sent to the “syr.edu” email account. If students choose to forward their University email account, they are still responsible for all the information sent to the syr.edu email account. 10. Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) It is the policy of the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs to discuss financial aid and related matters with the Syracuse University student (or SU student applicant) and parents or legal guardian. For those students considered to be independent for financial aid purposes, our office will discuss financial aid with the SU student and/or spouse. Staff are not able to discuss financial aid information (i.e. income, assets, aid process, etc.) with third-party representatives, such as accountants, lawyers, other family members, clergy, case workers, teachers, guidance counselors, or any other person or organization that has a relationship with the family. This policy is in effect even if the student and/or family indicates that the third party is authorized to speak on behalf of the family. Read about the Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) . 11. Outside Scholarships and Grants Outside scholarships and grants are those not funded by Syracuse University. Students receiving financial aid from Syracuse University are required to report all outside scholarships and grants that they receive from sources other than the University. Federal regulations require these awards be used in determining eligibility for federally funded financial assistance. Students who earn an outside scholarship, grant, or recognition award will be allowed to use the award to reduce Federal Work Study. If it is necessary to reduce other financial assistance, the self-help portion of a student’s award (i.e. Federal Work-Study and educational loans) will be reduced first. A student’s SU Grant will be reduced as a last resort. Students who receive a tuition specific award from an outside source (e.g. parent’s employer, state grant, veterans benefit, etc.) will have their need-based Syracuse University grant reduced by the amount of the tuition benefit. Syracuse University scholarships are tuition specific and may be combined with other tuition specific awards (including those outside of Syracuse University), not to exceed the amount of tuition for each year. If the combined total exceed the cost of tuition, the Syracuse University merit-based scholarship/award will be reduced accordingly. 12. Enrollment Policies for Undergraduate Students To receive financial aid students must: be admitted and matriculated into a Syracuse University degree/certificate program be enrolled and attending the classes for which they enrolled be enrolled in and attending classes that lead to degree completion If a student has fulfilled all degree requirements and is eligible to graduate, but continues to enroll in Syracuse University classes, they are not eligible to have their federal or institutional funding renewed. Part-Time Enrollment Students must be registered for at least 12 new credits each semester to be considered a full-time student. If a student’s status changes to part-time and he/she registers through Continuing Education, College of Professional Studies, his/her financial aid will be withdrawn. Students may apply for financial aid through the College of Professional Studies’s Financial Aid Office. Main Campus full-time students registered for less than 12 new credits for the semester will have their aid adjusted. Federal financial aid will be adjusted according to federal criteria. Syracuse University scholarships and grants will be reduced according to the chart below. If a student’s enrollment falls below half-time, he/she will not be eligible to receive any financial aid. Aid adjustments for students approved to receive College of Professional Studies tuition rates during their last semester of enrollment will be based on credit hours and actual tuition costs. 3+2 or 4+1 Programs Undergraduate aid (federal, state, and university funds) can only be awarded for the undergraduate courses that meet your Bachelor's degree requirements. A student cannot receive both undergraduate and graduate aid during the same term. If you enroll in both graduate and undergraduate courses during the same term, your aid and scholarships will be calculated based upon your undergraduate enrollment only. Students enrolled in 3+2 or 4+1 programs should remain enrolled in at least 12 credit hours of undergraduate courses per term to continue to receive their full time aid and scholarship eligibility. Aid Adjustments Number of Credits Registered For Amount of Syracuse Grant & Scholarship Reduction Number of Credits Registered For 11 Amount of Syracuse Grant & Scholarship Reduction 10% Number of Credits Registered For 10 Amount of Syracuse Grant & Scholarship Reduction 20% Number of Credits Registered For 9 Amount of Syracuse Grant & Scholarship Reduction 30% Number of Credits Registered For 8 Amount of Syracuse Grant & Scholarship Reduction 40% Number of Credits Registered For 7 Amount of Syracuse Grant & Scholarship Reduction 50% Number of Credits Registered For 6 Amount of Syracuse Grant & Scholarship Reduction 60% Number of Credits Registered For 5 Amount of Syracuse Grant & Scholarship Reduction 100% Students repeating classes need to be aware of the impact repeating classes may have on their federal financial aid. The criteria for federal aid eligibility for courses that are taken more than once are: Unlimited repeated courses can be funded with federal aid if the student has not passed the course previously while attending Syracuse University. All attempts are counted in the overall review. Only one repeated course can be funded with federal aid if the student has previously passed the course. Both attempts are counted toward attempted however only one passed course is counted towards the total earned. 13. Penalties for Drug Law Violations According to the United States Department of Education, if a student is convicted of a drug offense after receiving federal aid money, he or she must notify the Financial Aid Office immediately. The student will become ineligible for further federal aid and also be required to pay back any and all aid received after the conviction. Should a conviction result, a student can take advantage of rehabilitation programs that can make him or her eligible for federal financial aid again. A federal or state drug conviction can disqualify a student for Federal Student Aid funds. Convictions only count if they were for an offense that occurred during a period of enrollment for which the student was receiving Title IV aid. They do not count if the offense was not during such a period. Also, a conviction that was reversed, set aside, or removed from the student’s record does not count, nor does one received when she was a juvenile, unless she was tried as an adult. The chart below illustrates the period of ineligibility for FSA funds, depending on whether the conviction was for sale or possession and whether the student had previous offenses. (A conviction for sale of drugs includes convictions for conspiring to sell drugs.) Periods of Ineligibility for FSA Funds Possession Sale 1st offense Possession 1 year from date of conviction Sale 2 years from date of conviction 2nd offense Possession 2 years from date of conviction Sale Indefinite period 3rd offense Possession Indefinite period Sale Indefinite period If the student was convicted of both possessing and selling illegal drugs , and the periods of ineligibility are different, the student will be ineligible for the longer period. A student regains eligibility the day after the period of ineligibility ends or when he successfully completes a qualified drug rehabilitation program. Further drug convictions will make him ineligible again. It is the student’s responsibility to certify to that s/he has successfully completed the rehabilitation program. 14. Prior Bachelor Degree Students may apply for admission to Syracuse University for a second bachelor’s degree. Students who have received a bachelor’s degree either at Syracuse University or another college or university are not eligible to receive Syracuse University Grant or merit scholarships while pursuing their second bachelor’s degree. Students seeking financial aid to pursue a second bachelor’s degree may file a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and be determined eligible for the following federal aid programs: Federal Direct Student Loans Federal Work Study Federal Perkins Loan Students who have already received a prior bachelor’s degree are ineligible to receive a Federal Pell Grant or Federal SEOG (FSEOG). 15. Program Completion If a student has fulfilled all degree requirements and is eligible to graduate, but continues to enroll in SU classes, they are not eligible to have their federal or institutional funding renewed. Read more about academic merit scholarship policies . 16. Renewing Financial Aid Awards Every effort is made to renew financial aid. Your aid may renew if you meet all eligibility criteria, comply with the Code of Student Conduct , comply with Academic Integrity standards, funding levels remain stable, and your FAFSA and CSS/PROFILE information does not change. Please note that the number of siblings in college substantially reduces the family's Expected Family Contribution for each student, changes in this number directly impacts the amount of financial aid awarded. Read important renewal information to determine if your aid will renew. 17. Satisfactory Academic Progress – Federal and University – Undergraduate Federal regulations and Syracuse University policies require that all financial aid recipients must make steady progress toward completion of their degree requirements. To view satisfactory academic progress policy for undergraduate students of the College of Professional Studies, please click here . Students must successfully complete (earn) a specified number of credit hours (quantitative measure) as well as attain and maintain a required grade point average (qualitative measure) by the end of each semester. Syracuse University conducts a review of Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) tied to receipt of federal and institutional student aid at the end of each semester. Federal and institutional student aid programs include Pell Grants, Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants (SEOG), Federal Work-Study, Perkins Loans, Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loans, Direct PLUS Loans and Syracuse University grants and scholarships. For Direct PLUS Loans borrowed by parents of undergraduate students, the parent borrower’s eligibility to receive loan funds is dependent on the student’s SAP status. The information that follows applies to all undergraduate students (new and continuing students) who are requesting federal and/or Syracuse University institutional aid funds. For information regarding New York State TAP SAP please read the Satisfactory Academic Progress — New York State Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) Undergraduate information found on this page. In addition to meeting the standards for receiving financial aid, students must also meet the academic standards of their school or college at Syracuse University which may be lower. For further information, please visit the Registrar’s Office . Requirements for maintaining Satisfactory Academic Progress Beginning in August 2020, a student will be notified at the conclusion of each semester if he/she fails to meet SAP requirements. If a student fails to achieve satisfactory academic progress at that time, the student will be placed on Warning status and may receive financial aid for one semester only to provide an opportunity to regain eligibility. Should the student continue to fail satisfactory academic progress after this one semester on Warning status, Syracuse University may not award and disburse future federal/university program funds to the student. To meet SAP standards you must: Earn at least 67 percent of all credit hours attempted (cumulative, including transfer credits). Transfer courses are counted as both attempted and completed hours when measuring SAP (Pace) progress. Attempted Credits Include: Earned credit (grades of A-D and/or P) Repeated courses - both attempts Withdrawals (WD) Failures - Failed (F), Unsatisfactory (U) Incompletes All accepted transfer credits (including consortium agreements, SUPA credits, and Study Abroad courses) toward the degree program. Attain a cumulative grade point average (G.P.A.) of 2.0 by the end of each semester and maintain this for the duration of your academic career. Complete a degree program in a maximum timeframe of no more than 150 percent of the average length of the program — For example, the average number of credit hours required to complete a Bachelor degree program is 120 credits. Using that average, 150 percent of 120 credits would equal 180 credit hours which would be the maximum number of credit hours for which a student could receive financial aid (assuming the above requirements are also met). GPA and progress towards completion are affected by course incompletes and withdrawals. Regaining Eligibility The student may regain financial aid eligibility by enrolling in and completing sufficient credits to meet the standards described in the above policy without the benefit of federal or university funded financial aid. Readmitted Students Students will be reviewed at the time of readmission from a leave of absence to determine if SAP standards are met. Returning from a leave or removal from academic probation does not automatically qualify a student for federal aid. Students who do not meet SAP for the first time will be placed on ‘Warning’ status. Those who left the University after multiple semesters of failure, including one semester Probation and/or on Academic Plan, will be placed in ‘Not Meets’ status and will not be eligible for federal or institutional aid until they are back in compliance. Under some circumstances students are allowed to return to SU after a period of time and have their previous graded coursework removed from their academic records. SAP regulations do not recognize any provision for academic amnesty or renewal. All academic coursework taken at any time a student is in attendance at SU must be included in determining SAP. Students repeating classes need to be aware of the impact repeating classes may have on their federal financial aid in addition to Satisfactory Academic Progress requirements of meeting pace. The criteria for federal aid eligibility for courses that are taken more than once are: Unlimited repeated courses can be funded with federal aid if the student has not passed the course previously while attending Syracuse University. All attempts are counted in the overall review. Only one repeated course can be funded with federal aid if the student has previously passed the course. Both attempts are counted toward attempted however only one passed course is counted towards the total earned. Appeals Students who do not meet the SAP standards after the one semester Warning may appeal to the University’s Financial Aid Office for a SAP Financial Aid Waiver. Waivers may be issued for students who have experienced exceptional or extraordinary circumstances “beyond the student’s control” that resulted in the failure to satisfy the requirements and where there is a reasonable expectation that the student will meet these requirements in the future. Exceptional or extraordinary circumstances include family illness or death or personal illness. Supporting documentation will be required such as a death certificate, letter from doctor or counselor, statement from advisor, etc. Students will also be required to submit an academic plan with their appeal. In order to develop an appropriate academic plan, students must schedule an appointment with their academic advisor via Orange Success. The academic plan must contain: Specific outcomes of how SAP can be established; and maintained List of specific courses or course load with GPA recommendations Signoff from academic advisor If an appeal is approved, the student will be allowed to receive financial aid for one semester only. If the student meets the conditions set forth in the approval letter and academic plan, if applicable, the student may continue to receive aid for subsequent semesters. If the appeal is denied through this process, the student will be notified in writing and will not receive financial assistance for the next period of enrollment or until the student is in compliance with SAP standards. Students may only appeal once for a SAP waiver unless they have different circumstances which led to the original failure. The deadline to submit an appeal is one week before the end of add-drop for a term. Please contact the Office of Financial Aid & Scholarship programs to confirm the SAP Appeal deadline for a summer term. SAP Remediation Counseling Student Academic Advisors, and Student Support Retention Counselors, will be notified of student Satisfactory Academic Progress standards through Orange Success. This will provide an opportunity for the student, and their academic advisor, to work on a proactive plan to regain compliance for continue financial aid eligibility. 18. Satisfactory Academic Progress–Federal and University–Graduate This policy on satisfactory academic progress relates specifically to graduate students who are receiving student loans and other federally funded financial aid. To view satisfactory academic progress policy for graduate students of the College of Professional Studies, please click here . To view satisfactory academic progress for Law students, please click here . In addition to meeting the standards for receiving financial aid, students must also meet the standards of their academic program at Syracuse University. Requirements for maintaining Satisfactory Academic Progress This policy on satisfactory academic progress relates specifically to graduate students who are receiving student loans and other federally funded financial aid. In addition to meeting the standards for receiving financial aid, students must also meet the standards of their academic program at Syracuse University. Students will be reviewed on a per term basis. A student will be notified at the conclusion of each term if he/she fails to meet SAP requirements. If a student fails to achieve satisfactory academic progress at that time, the student will be placed on Warning status and may receive financial aid for one term only to provide an opportunity to regain eligibility. Should the student continue to fail satisfactory academic progress after this one term on Warning status, Syracuse University may not award and disburse future federal/private loan funds to the student. To meet SAP standards you must: Graduate students must receive a passing grade in 75% of total credits taken. Attempted Credits Include: Earned credit (grades of A-D and/or P) Repeated courses - both attempts Withdrawals (WD) Failures - Failed (F), Unsatisfactory (U) Incompletes Graduate students must achieve and maintain a 2.8 cumulative GPA. Graduate students who register for 0 credit hours and are certified as full-time by their academic department can maintain eligibility for a maximum of 9 terms (including fall and spring terms and summer sessions). Students who exceed nine terms of full-time enrollment, registering for zero credits, must appeal to the Syracuse University Financial Aid Office. Regaining Eligibility The student may regain financial aid eligibility by enrolling in and completing sufficient credits to meet the standards described in the above policy without the benefit of federal or university funded financial aid. Readmitted Students Students will be reviewed at the time of readmission from a leave of absence to determine if SAP standards are met. Returning from a leave or removal from academic probation does not automatically qualify a student for federal aid. Students who do not meet SAP for the first time will be placed on 'Warning' status. Those who left the University after multiple terms of failure, including one term Probation and/or on Academic Plan, will be placed in 'Not Meets' status and will not be eligible for federal or institutional aid until they are back in compliance. Under some circumstances students are allowed to return to SU after a period of time and have their previous graded coursework removed from their academic records. SAP regulations do not recognize any provision for academic amnesty or renewal. All academic coursework taken at any time a student is in attendance at SU must be included in determining SAP. Students repeating classes need to be aware of the impact repeating classes may have on their federal financial aid in addition to Satisfactory Academic Progress requirements of meeting pace. The criteria for federal aid eligibility for courses that are taken more than once are: Unlimited repeated courses can be funded with federal aid if the student has not passed the course previously while attending Syracuse University. All attempts are counted in the overall review. Only one repeated course can be funded with federal aid if the student has previously passed the course. Both attempts are counted toward attempted however only one passed course is counted towards the total earned. Appeals Graduate students who fail to meet SAP have the right to appeal for a waiver based on extenuating circumstances. If the appeal is approved, the student will be allowed to receive financial aid for one term only. If the conditions set forth in the approval letter and academic plan (if applicable) are met, the student may continue to receive aid for subsequent terms. If the appeal is denied through this process, the student will be notified in writing and will not receive financial assistance for the next period of enrollment, or until the student is in compliance with SAP standards. Students may be required to submit an academic plan with their appeal. In order to develop an appropriate academic plan, students must schedule an appointment with their academic advisor via Orange Success. The academic plan must contain: Specific outcomes of how SAP can be established; and maintained List of specific courses or course load with GPA recommendations Signoff from academic advisor If an appeal is approved, the student will be allowed to receive financial aid for one term only. If the student meets the conditions set forth in the approval letter and academic plan, if applicable, the student may continue to receive aid for subsequent terms. If the appeal is denied through this process, the student will be notified in writing and will not receive financial assistance for the next period of enrollment or until the student is in compliance with SAP standards. Students may only appeal once for a SAP waiver unless they have different circumstances which led to the original failure. The deadline to submit an appeal is one week before the end of add-drop for a term. Please contact the Office of Financial Aid & Scholarship programs to confirm the SAP Appeal deadline for a summer term. 19. Satisfactory Academic Progress–New York State Tuition Assistance Program (TAP)–Undergraduate Students receiving funding from New York State Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) must also meet additional TAP satisfactory academic progress (SAP) requirements. Note that the criteria for TAP satisfactory academic progress differs from the federal and Syracuse University satisfactory academic progress criteria listed in our Policies section. Program Pursuit refers to the measure of the student’s effort to complete a specified percentage of the minimum full-time course load in an aid-supported semester. Grades acceptable for meeting the Program Pursuit requirement include passing and failing grades of A through F and any other grade that signifies that the student completed all assignments and attended the entire term. Incomplete grades that school policy requires to be converted to a passing or failing letter grade no later than the end of the following term can also be used to satisfy Program Pursuit. Withdrawal grades and any other grade that indicates a student did not complete the term are not acceptable for Program Pursuit purposes. For students receiving their first payment of TAP during or after the 2010–11 academic year , the following TAP SAP criteria will be used to determine academic eligibility of NYS TAP. * Academic Eligibility of NYS TAP TAP payment number Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* Total number of earned credits** Minimum cumulative GPA TAP payment number 1 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 0 Total number of earned credits** 0 Minimum cumulative GPA 0 TAP payment number 2 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 6 Total number of earned credits** 6 Minimum cumulative GPA 1.5 TAP payment number 3 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 6 Total number of earned credits** 15 Minimum cumulative GPA 1.8 TAP payment number 4 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 9 Total number of earned credits** 27 Minimum cumulative GPA 1.8 TAP payment number 5 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 9 Total number of earned credits** 39 Minimum cumulative GPA 2.0 TAP payment number 6 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 12 Total number of earned credits** 51 Minimum cumulative GPA 2.0 TAP payment number 7 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 12 Total number of earned credits** 66 Minimum cumulative GPA 2.0 TAP payment number 8 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 12 Total number of earned credits** 81 Minimum cumulative GPA 2.0 TAP payment number 9 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 12 Total number of earned credits** 96 Minimum cumulative GPA 2.0 TAP payment number 10 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 12 Total number of earned credits** 111 Minimum cumulative GPA 2.0 *Includes grades A-F**Includes only passing grades A-D Incomplete and failing grades are included in the number of credits completed per semester. Only passing grades are included in the number of credits earned. For example, to receive your fourth TAP payment under the above standards, students must: be registered for at least 12 new credits have completed 9 credits in the previous semester per Program Pursuit requirements have earned 27 credits have a cumulative 1.8 GPA Note: Students in the Arthur O. Eve Higher Education Opportunity Program (HEOP) will need to adhere to the requirements in the table below. For students who received their first payment of TAP during or after 2007–08 and prior to 2010–11 , and all HEOP students , the following TAP SAP criteria will be used for determining award eligibility. Tap payment number Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* Total number of earned credits** Minimum Cumulative GPA Tap payment number 1 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 0 Total number of earned credits** 0 Minimum Cumulative GPA 0 Tap payment number 2 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 6 Total number of earned credits** 3 Minimum Cumulative GPA 1.1 Tap payment number 3 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 6 Total number of earned credits** 9 Minimum Cumulative GPA 1.2 Tap payment number 4 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 9 Total number of earned credits** 21 Minimum Cumulative GPA 1.3 Tap payment number 5 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 9 Total number of earned credits** 33 Minimum Cumulative GPA 2.0 Tap payment number 6 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 12 Total number of earned credits** 45 Minimum Cumulative GPA 2.0 Tap payment number 7 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 12 Total number of earned credits** 60 Minimum Cumulative GPA 2.0 Tap payment number 8 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 12 Total number of earned credits** 75 Minimum Cumulative GPA 2.0 Tap payment number 9 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 12 Total number of earned credits** 90 Minimum Cumulative GPA 2.0 Tap payment number 10 Minimum number of new credits for which you must be enrolled 12 Program Pursuit/number of credits in prior semester* 12 Total number of earned credits** 105 Minimum Cumulative GPA 2.0 *Includes grades A-F**Includes only passing grades A-D Incomplete and failing grades are included in the number of credits completed per semester. Only passing grades are included in the number of credits earned. For example, to receive your sixth TAP payment under the above standards, students must: be registered for at least 12 new credits have completed 12 credits in the previous semester per Program Pursuit requirements have earned 45 credits have a cumulative 2.0 GPA Students who fail to meet the criteria for Federal, University, and/or TAP for satisfactory academic progress will be notified by the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs. Students should contact their financial aid counselor to discuss their options. Only students enrolled in the HEOP program or in approved five year bachelor’s programs are eligible for ten TAP payments. The maximum number of payments for all other students is eight. Repeating Courses A student must enroll for a minimum of 12 new credits each semester to be eligible for NYS TAP. When repeated courses are included in meeting the minimum requirement, the student will be ineligible for a TAP award. For example, a student who earned a passing grade in a course but repeats the course to improve the grade and overall grade point average cannot count the repeated course as part of the minimum course load (12 new credits). There are instances where repeated courses may count toward full-time study and TAP eligibility when: a failed course is repeated; a grade received is passing at the institution but is unacceptable in a particular curriculum a course may be repeated and credit earned each time, such as certain Physical Education or Language Courses. 20. Student Handbook Please read the important information in the Student Handbook . 21. Student Responsibilities Students should arrive on campus with funds for books, living expenses, and miscellaneous expenses To renew financial aid awards, students must annually file required applications by the posted deadline. For more information, view your MySlice To Do List. It is the student’s responsibility to make sure the full registration is on record with the Registrar. A student receiving financial aid agrees to the following: Federal and/or state financial aid will be used only to pay the cost of attending an institution of higher education. Are not in default on a federal student loan or have made satisfactory arrangements to pay it. Do not owe money back on a federal student grant or have made satisfactory arrangements to repay it. Will notify SU if he/she defaults on a federal student loan. Undergraduate students will not receive a Federal Pell Grant from more than one school for the same period of time. If requested, will provide information that will verify the accuracy of completed financial aid forms. The Secretary of Education has the authority to verify information reported on a student’s application with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other federal agencies. If a student purposely gives false or misleading information, he/she may be fined $20,000, sent to prison, or both. Comply with the Code of Student Conduct and Academic Integrity standards. 22. Syracuse Students Planning to Attend Other Institutions in the U.S. or Abroad Students matriculated at Syracuse University may take a leave of absence to enroll at another institution for a limited period of time with the intention of returning to Syracuse University to complete their program of study. Financial aid awarded by Syracuse University cannot be used by students while enrolled at another institution. This includes all student loans, as well as federal, state or institutionally funded scholarships and grants. Some colleges and universities have formal agreements (usually called consortium agreements) which allow students to enroll in an approved program of study at another institution and receive their financial aid. Syracuse University’s academic policies do not allow for consortium agreements with other colleges or universities in the United States. SU Abroad may enter into consortium agreements with other institutions’ ‘study abroad’ programs. Students who are planning to study abroad through another institution should contact the SU Abroad office regarding eligibility for a consortium agreement. Syracuse University’s policy on consortium agreements is stated in the University’s Academic Rules . 23. SUNY ESF Students Students enrolled in the State University of New York College of Environmental Science and Forestry are not eligible for Syracuse University financial aid. Contact SUNY ESF Financial Aid Office at 315.470.6670 for eligibility information. 24. Syracuse University Policies Please read the Syracuse University Policies . 25. Tuition Credit Policy for Outside Agencies Syracuse University Office of Academic Affairs Tuition Credit Policy for Outside Agencies Eligibility Outside Agencies that have been granted remitted tuition credits may use these credits solely for current employees of the agency, subject to the restrictions noted in this policy. The agency is responsible for submitting a completed Usage Approval Form to the Remitted Tuition Coordinator in the Office of the Bursar no later than the last day of late registration. Conditions Tuition credit hours are available for use within four semesters following the semester of placement completion. The two summer sessions count as one semester. The credits may not be applied retroactively to prior tuition charges. Tuition credit is forfeited if not used before or during the semester of expiration, and the semester of expiration will not be altered under any circumstances. The maximum number of credits which the University will award for supervision performed by any one field instructor in a semester is six. The sale and/or purchase of tuition credits is expressly forbidden. If it is determined that credits have been obtained in this manner, the credits will become null and void. Use Tuition credits MAY be applied to: On campus undergraduate and graduate courses offered by main campus colleges, College of Professional Studies, and the extended campus of the School of Education, whether taken for credit or audited. Restrictions Tuition for a full time undergraduate student except with the advance and express approval of the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs. Tuition for courses offered by SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry and SUNY Upstate Medical Center, even if the student registers for them through an SU school or college (i.e. Central NY Masters in Public Health Program). Fees other than tuition, such as the student activity fee, lab fees, fees for course materials, health service fees and athletic fees. Tuition for online programs including MBA@Syracuse, Communications@Syracuse, or other online programs. Syracuse University reserves the right to restrict acceptance of tuition credit for courses, programs, and workshops including non-credit Informal and Professional Development courses offered by the College of Professional Studies. Tuition credit is not accepted for programs where the charge covers expenses other than tuition. Any questions about eligibility should be addressed to the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs. The policy for reinstatement of tuition credit on dropped courses is the same as for students paying their own tuition, as explained in the Syracuse University Tuition, Fees and Related Policy publication. If the student drops regular courses during the first three weeks of class (or during the first week of a summer session) credits will be restored. For non-credit courses, tuition credit hours will be reinstated only if the class is dropped prior to the second meeting. Syracuse University reserves the right to modify this policy at its discretion. Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs, updated September 2015. 26. Veteran’s Benefits If you will be receiving Veteran’s Benefits, you must report the amount of the benefit to the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs. Veteran’s Benefits are incorporated into your financial aid eligibility for Syracuse University need-based grant funds. However, your Veteran’s Benefits do not affect your eligibility for federal funds. Tuition based awards (e.g. Syracuse University merit scholarships, some state awards and some Veteran’s Benefits) cannot exceed the cost of tuition for the academic year. If you are a Syracuse University merit scholarship recipient, this scholarship may be combined with other tuition based awards, such as your Veteran’s Benefits or state grants, but cannot exceed the cost of tuition for the academic year. In addition, if you are receiving any Syracuse University need-based grant or scholarship, your total financial aid award cannot exceed the Cost of Attendance. 27. Adjustments to Financial Aid / Withdrawal (R2T4) Mid Semester Withdrawal : Federal financial aid (Title IV funds) and institutional aid for students who withdraw from the University before the semester ends is adjusted according to Department of Education and Syracuse University policy. Title IV funds include the Federal Direct Student, Parent and Graduate PLUS loans, FSEOG, Federal Pell Grant, and TEACH Grants. Title IV aid received is based on the number of days students are enrolled for the semester. Prior to the 60 percent point of the semester, students may receive Title IV funds in proportion to the length of time they are enrolled. A student who withdraws before the 60% point may have their Title IV aid reduced. Students who remain enrolled beyond the 60% point may receive all Title IV aid for the semester. Adjustments to Institutional Scholarships and Grants are awarded according to institutional policy. Students who withdraw before the semester ends may either lose their institutional scholarships and grants or have their institutional aid prorated. Scholarships and grants are awarded on the basis of full-time enrollment for the full semester. Withdrawal From a Module Course: At Syracuse University we monitor students' enrolled in a series of modules to insure full eligibility for Title IV aid based on cost of attendance and enrollment status. Should a student withdraw from module classes, we are required to determine the student's eligibility of earned federal financial aid based on a student's date of withdrawal. The R2T4 calculation is used to determine the amount of federal funds the student has earned based on the number of days in the enrollment period and the number of days the student actually attended. In some cases these students may no longer be eligible for the full amount of Title IV Funds. The school must obtain written confirmation from the student at the time of the withdrawal from the course that he or she will attend a module that begins later in the same payment period or period of enrollment. If the student does not enroll or submit confirmation the student will be considered withdrawn. 28. HEA FAFSA Data Restriction Policy Section 483(a)(3)(E) of the Higher Education Authorization Act (HEA) restricts that sharing of FAFSA data with anyone other than those who reported information on the FAFSA. "FAFSA data" includes the 100+ FAFSA questions answered by the student and their parents or spouses and federal aid eligibility resulting from the FAFSA. Also, restrictions apply to key processing results and a student's financial aid history (as reflected in NSLDS). Third Party Authentication In order to secure this sensitive information, we now require parents or spouses who contact our office to verify their identity via an authentication process. Students will complete an authentication form (available on MySlice) to provide access to the pertinent information for any person listed on the FAFSA (i.e. parents, spouses). Students will provide the 3rd party's email address as well as create a Password/Pin for future authentication. When that person calls our office, we will confirm their identity by asking for their password/pin. If someone emails our office regarding your eligibility, we will confirm that the email address is one listed on the authentication form for that person before we reply. 29. Federal Loan Information Sharing Syracuse University is required to provide information published by the U.S. Department of Education to students at any time that information regarding loan availability is provided. The publication includes information about rights and responsibilities of students and schools under Title IV, HEA loan programs. National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) HEOA Section 489 amended HEA Section 485B(d)(4) If Syracuse University enters into an agreement with a potential student, student, or parent of a student regarding a Title IV, HEA loan are required to inform the student or parent that the loan will be submitted to the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS), and will be accessible by guaranty agencies, lenders, and schools determined to be authorized users of the data system. Student loan information published by the U.S. Department of Education may be found on the Federal Student Aid website . Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy