Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University & Student Business Services Staff Directory Fees Calendars Students Parents Campus Card USBS Info/Policies Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Fees Credit/Debit Card Usage Fees Deadlines & Dates Explanation of Fees Fee Adjustment (Refund) Policy Military Tuition Assistance (TA) Refund Policy and Schedule Fee Charts Fee Discounts, Waivers & Tuition Assistance Fee Payment Policies Financial Assistance Guaranteed Tuition Installment Payment Plan Payment Options Third Party/Direct Billing Take Action TigerXpress Cost of Tuition Estimator Forms Contact Us Follow Us Online twitter Home University & Student Business Services Fees Payment Options Payment Options Online Payment by eCheck Pay By Mail Online Payment by Debit/Credit Card Pay In Person International Payments Electronic eCheck (ACH) Payment You may remit your payment electronically via TigerXpress. This option is fee free. Please note that when you are remitting your payment online ensure that you have your Bank's routing and bank account number. Use only that information to remit your payment. Below is an example of where that information is located on the bottom of your personal check: **Please do not include the Check Number You will receive an email stating that your payment request has been received once the process is complete. Until the payment has been deemed as paid and satisfied, your payment is not considered complete. If a paper/electronic check or credit card payment used to satisfy enrollment fees is returned for non-payment by your financial institution, you will be assessed a $30 Return Payment Fee, and may be assessed a $100 Late Payment Fee, and your registration may be subject to cancellation. Payments by Mail The University of Memphis P.O. Box 1000, Dept. 313 Memphis, TN 38148-0313 Priority & Overnight Mailing Address: The University of Memphis University & Student Business Services Office 115 Wilder Tower Memphis, TN 38152-3520 Payments mailed to the University & Student Business Services Office must be received prior to the fee payment due date. Please be mindful to mail your payment 3-5 business days prior to the payment due date. The University of Memphis processes paper checks electronically. When you provide a check as payment (in-person or by mail) you authorize the use of information from your check to make a one-time electronic funds transfer from your account. In certain circumstances, such as for technical or processing reasons, we may process your check as a check transaction. For your reconciliation purposes, these checks will appear on your monthly bank statement as an Electronic Debit. Please allow 5-7 days for processing any checks mailed to the University & Student Business Services Office. Registration fee payments must be received by the University & Student Business Services Office by the appropriate fee payment due date, regardless of postmark date. Online Payments Make online payments through the TigerXpress Portal using an Electronic Check (eCheck) or debit/credit card (Visa, MasterCard, Discover, or American Express). If a paper/electronic check or credit card payment used to satisfy enrollment fees is returned for non-payment by your financial institution, you will be assessed a $30 Return Payment Fee, and may be assessed a $100 Late Payment Fee, and your registration may be subject to cancellation. All debit/credit card transactions are assessed a non-refundable processing fee by our third-party payment processor. The processing fee is 2.85% of the total payment amount with a minimum processing fee of $3.00. In-Person Payments The Cashiers are available for in person payments by check and money orders. Please visit us Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (excluding University holidays) at: University of Memphis University & Student Business Services Office 3675 Alumni Avenue 115 Wilder Tower Memphis, TN 38152-3520 International Payments The University of Memphis has partnered with Flywire to provide our international students with an easy and secure method to send international payments in your home currency to the University of Memphis. Founded by a former international student, Flywire's mission is to save money for international students and their families that would otherwise be lost on bank fees and unfavorable foreign exchange rates. If a credit balance on a student account is due to a Flywire payment, the refund will be processed back through Flywire. Flywire allows you to: Pay from almost any country and any bank Avoid unexpected bank fees and ensure the best exchange rate with Flywire's Best Price Guarantee Track your payments from start to finish Access dedicated multilingual customer support Start your payment at www.flywire.com/pay/memphis Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/3/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.