Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Student Spotlight » 2019–20 Award Winners Set Navigation title in component 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners Barry Goldwater Scholarship Rishi Mehta Rishi Mehta is a third-year student in the College of Medicine working towards a B.S. in Medical Sciences with minors in Economics and Public Health as well as a Certificate in Integrative Health and Wellness. Profile Zachary Thomas Zachary Thomas is a fourth year student in the College of Engineering and Applied Science, working towards a B.S. in Biomedical Engineering and a minor in Materials Engineering. Profile Fulbright ETA Grant Erika Nguyen Erika Nguyen is a Medical Sciences major and a recipient of the Fulbright English Teaching Assistant Award. She will be traveling to Vietnam. Profile Mia Turnbull Mia Turnbull, a Fulbright finalist, graduated in May of 2020 from the University of Cincinnati. She majored in Early Childhood Education and obtained a Spanish minor while at the university. Profile Fulbright Study/Research Grant Jeff Banks Jeff Banks is a PhD Candidate in Aegean Bronze Age archaeology, focusing on ceramics on the Bronze Age Greek Mainland. His dissertation is on the Early Helladic period at Corinth. As a Fulbright Study/Research grantee, he will be traveling to Greece. Profile Dylan David Dylan Naitraj David ("Raj") is a graduate student in the University of Cincinnati's Immunology Graduate Training Program. He has completed all of his coursework and will graduate with his Master of Science in Immunology in Spring 2021. Profile Fulbright UK Summer Institute Grant Morgan Dent Morgan Dent is a Medical Sciences major and a recipient of the Fulbright UK Summer Institute Grant. She will be traveling to Northern Ireland this summer. Knight-Hennessy Scholarship Mohamed Elzarka Mohamed Elzarka, from Cincinnati, Ohio, is pursuing an MD at Stanford School of Medicine. He graduated from the University of Cincinnati (UC) with bachelor’s degrees in neurobiology and liberal arts, and with a master’s degree in public health. Profile Humanity in Action Fellowship Parker Cellura Parker Cellura (he/him), a May 2020 graduate of the University of Cincinnati’s Political Science department, received an invitation to participate in Humanity in Action’s Netherlands Human Rights Fellowship this past summer. Profile 2019-2020 Award Finalists Anna Armao Anna Armao, a December 2019 University of Cincinnati graduate, was a finalist for the Marshall Scholarship. Profile Chinmay Bakshi Chinmay Bakshi is a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences majoring in Neurobiology and Liberal Arts with an emphasis in public health. Profile Isabel Slonneger Isabel Slonneger is an Environmental Studies major and a finalist for the Boren Awards. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top