Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Vice Provost for Research Menu Main Nav Vice Provost for Research Vice Provost for Research Contact Back Back Close About Overview Research Facilities Animal Care Facility Clean Room Electron Microscopy Flow Cytometry BD FACSAria Cell Sorter Imaging Facility Isotope Geochemistry Magnetic Resonance Mass Spectrometry Scientific Instrumentation & Machining Services Transmission Electron Microscope X-ray Crystallography Materials Characterization Training News Contact Policies Related Links Research Policies at Boston College VPR Organization Chart (PDF) Internal Grant Opportunities Sponsored Programs Overview Coronavirus Updates BC Research Policies & Federal Regulations University Research and Projects Policy Funding Assistance Documentation & Forms Institutional Profile PeopleSoft Financials Technology Transfer Overview Invention Disclosure Guidance and Education Faculty and Staff Students Partners and Industry Documents Frequently Asked Questions Research Security, Integrity and Compliance Overview Research Security Research Integrity Research Misconduct Export Controls Research Protections Overview Policies & Procedures Forms & Templates Protocol Submission Authorization Agreements Training International Research Animal Welfare Contact Postdoctoral Affairs ResearchMatch Related Links ORP Standard Operating Procedures document Policy for the Protection of Human Research Participants IRB Committee Bylaws Human Subjects Payment Policy Gift Card Distribution Log Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search VPR website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Research Protections Contact Research Protections Policies & Procedures Forms & Templates Protocol Submission Authorization Agreements Training International Research Animal Welfare Contact Postdoctoral Affairs ResearchMatch Contact ORP staff is available to help you Monday through Friday, 9am-5pm. If you would like to schedule a meeting to discuss your study, please call us in advance to make an appointment. If you would like to request that a representative from ORP attend one of your meetings or conduct a classroom presentation, please contact the Director. Waul House, 2nd Floor Office Phone: 617-552-4778 Office Fax: 617-552-0498 Email: irb@bc.edu Office Hours and Events Office Hours and Events Office hours are held the second Tuesday of every month from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m., and the third Monday of every month from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. Fall Office Hours: Mon: 9/16, 10/21, 11/18, 12/16 Tues: 9/10, 10/8, 11/12, 12/10 Ask questions pertaining to the IRB process, a specific study, submitting an application, and more! Questions? Contact us: irb@bc.edu | 617-552-4778 Follow Us Meet Our Team Hiram Brownell, Ph.D. IRB Chair Hiram is a faculty member of the IRB and currently serves as Chair. In that role, he works closely with the staff of the IRB and the Office of the Vice Provost for Research on a range of policy and procedural matters. Hiram is a professor in the psychology department, with scholarly interests in the cognitive effects of acquired brain injury and methodology. He lives in Newton with his family, cat, and dog. Erin Sibley, Ph.D. Director Erin oversees the work of the IRB and IACUC in the Office for Research Protections. She received her PhD in Applied Developmental & Educational Psychology from the Lynch School of Education and was a postdoc for the City Connects intervention at the Center for Optimized Student Support. She lives in Natick with her husband and two children. Jay Cortellini, J.D. Assistant Director Jay enjoys helping researchers comply with regulatory requirements and ethical principles concerning research involving human or animal subjects. Jay earned his J.D. at BC and worked for several years at a teaching hospital, where he served as, among other things, the hospital's IRB and IACUC administrator. Jay lives in North Attleboro, MA with his family. Meghan Zugibe, M.A. Senior IRB Administrator Meghan works with researchers to develop high-quality submissions for IRB approval. Meghan earned her master’s degree in Higher Education Student Affairs in the Lynch School of Education and Human Development in May 2021. She lives in Norwood with her husband and goldendoodle. Back To Top Back To Top Vice Provost for Research Boston College, Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 vproffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College