Skip navigation About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors menu Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Global Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support Office of International Programs Brown in Hong Kong Hong Kong at night**Please note: Program will not be offered Fall 2021 or Spring 2022** At a Glance Partner: Chinese University of Hong Kong Housing: meal/housing plan at S.H. Ho College Language Requirement: None Calendar: Semester or Year Accepts Non-Brown Students: No Overview Founded in 1963, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is globally recognized for the high quality of its undergraduate programs. CUHK is a bilingual university where courses are taught in Chinese or English and in some cases in both languages. Brown students can find a robust array of courses across disciplines delivered in English. Previous study in Chinese language is encouraged, but is not required for admission to this program. CUHK's beautiful 350-acre campus overlooks Tolo Harbour and is the largest and greenest in Hong Kong. In addition to its state-of-the-art classroom buildings, the campus includes world-class libraries, art museums, music halls, swimming pool, sports fields, tennis courts, squash courts, water sports center, and gymnasiums. Academics Courses are offered in English, Cantonese, and Mandarin (Putonghua). Local students are Cantonese speakers, but there is no shortage of courses delivered in English. Brown students can take courses in all areas except the Faculty of Education, Law, Medicine, and other departmental restrictions. All Brown students must take a full load of courses, totaling at least 15 CUHK units. Students must enroll in at least one Mandarin or Cantonese language course as part of the required units. Program Calendar Approximate dates are provided based on past programs; students should expect them to vary by year. Please refer to the CUHK semester calendar for more specific information about program dates. Academic Year: early September - mid-May Fall Semester: early September - third week of December Spring Semester: early January - mid-May Application Instructions Apply by the deadline using Brown's online application system via the "apply now" and "return to application" buttons on the right side of this page. Applications typically require faculty recommendations so it is important to begin the process early. Related Links 2018/19 Estimated Program Costs CUHK Academic Calendar Housing and Meals at CUHK Brown's East Asian Studies Department Home Study Abroad COVID-19 Updates Programs Distinctively Brown/Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) programs Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) Argentina Brazil Chile Cuba France Germany Hong Kong Ireland Italy Japan Spain Approved Programs Petition Process Summer Programs Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) Independent Study and Undergraduate Research Application Deadlines Meet with an Advisor Study Abroad Peer Advisors Faculty Advisors for Study Abroad FinancIal Information Getting Started Health & Safety Resources for Abroad Returning to Brown For Families Faculty & Staff OIP Events & Activities About the OIP Print this Page Share this Page Office of International Programs Brown University Box 1973 Page-Robinson Hall 420 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3555 Fax 401-863-3311 [email protected] For Global Travelers Controller's Office Travel Policies and Procedures International Health Insurance Register with Brown's International SOS Service Tips While Abroad - The Take It With You Guide Brown Travel Portal IT Security Travel Tips International Research Administration Travel Clinic For Global Visitors Office of International Student & Scholar Services (OISSS) International Health Insurance Brown Travel Portal International Student Resources Visiting Undergraduate Students Visiting Research Fellows and Non-Degree Graduate Students Study Abroad Office of International Programs - Undergraduate Study Abroad Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards Graduate School Partnerships and Exchanges Grant Opportunities Our grant database offers a wide range of funding opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and researcher in different fields of work. Search Grants Social Media Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Top Destinations Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Map & Directions Social Media Dashboard Contact Us Giving to Brown