Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Research and Innovation Week Orientation Professional Development Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog ☰ The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Current Students Graduate Writing Center Graduate Writing Center Welcome to the Graduate Student Writing Center! Our Graduate Student Writing Consultants are Ph.D. students at SMU trained to help you in your academic writing. Our consultants can help you at any stage of the writing process, from brainstorming to the final draft. Consultants can offer suggestions on the overall structure of your writing and general approaches to academic writing, in addition to sentence structure and grammar guidance. We are happy to work with you on all academic writing, including: Coursework or class assignments Conference abstracts or presentations Research papers or journal articles Theses or dissertations Grant and fellowship applications Students can work with the writing consultants by booking one-on-one appointments. Individual appointments last for 30 minutes. If you have a large writing assignment, plan on making multiple appointments over several weeks to continue working with the consultant. The Graduate Writing Center is closed for summer 2022. Check back in August for fall appointments! You are encouraged to submit a piece of writing you need help with when you book an appointment. You may also send your piece of writing directly to the consultant by email in advance of your appointment. Schedule a Graduate Writing Center Appointment International Graduate Students: Additional writing support is available through the ESL Program. You can schedule a one-on-one Zoom appointment with an ESL Writing Consultant. One-on-one ESL Writing Appointments Policies This service is open to doctoral and master's students in Dedman College and the Lyle, Meadows, and Simmons Schools. Students must book appointments at least 12 hours in advance, and are limited to a maximum of two appointments per week. If you cannot make your appointment, you must cancel at least 24 hours in advance to provide others an opportunity to use the slot. If you fail to cancel your appointment with 24 hours' notice twice in one semester, you will not be able to book an appointment for the rest of the semester. The consultants are not here to write for you - be prepared to learn from them and revise based on their guidance. If discussing big-picture issues, a document of 10 - 15 pages in length is appropriate for a 30 minute appointment. If requesting detailed copyediting assistance, the maximum document length is five pages per appointment. You have the opportunity to upload a document you'd like to discuss at your appointment. If possible bring a printed copy to your session as well. If none of the available appointment times work for you, please feel free to contact the consultants directly. They may be able to make an appointment with you at a time not currently available in the calendar. Meet the Counselors Austin Miller Austin Miller is a PhD candidate in SMU’s Clements Department of History, specializing in the American West, Southwest borderlands, and environmental history. His dissertation research focuses on energy and the environment of the Pecos Valley in eastern New Mexico and West Texas. Austin earned his BA in Honors Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts & History from the University of New Mexico. After spending a year teaching and coaching, he returned to UNM, where he completed his MA in the history of the American West in 2018. Outside of grad school, he enjoys following collegiate and professional sports, playing golf and tennis, and running the occasional half marathon. Email: austinmj@smu.edu Danny Sebastian Danny Sebastian is a Ph.D. student in the Religious Studies program. He did his undergraduate work in both Biblical Studies and Accounting and is a Certified Public Accountant. He completed an M.A. in Religious Studies at Missouri State University where his research focused on the interplay of economics and religion. His interests span across the social sciences, humanities, and arts. He enjoys helping others improve their writing, so reach out to him for assistance with your current writing project. Email: dannys@smu.edu Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share