Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Non-Profit Management Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Non-Profit Management Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Non-Profit Management Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in Nonprofit Management Prepare to make an impact in the world around you with the Nonprofit Management Graduate Certificate at Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. The 12-credit hour certificate program is entirely online and primarily designed for graduate students aspiring to nonprofit careers. Nonprofits play a critical problem-solving role in society, responding to challenges like access to healthcare, criminal justice reform, education reform, hunger, sustainability and more. The National Center for Charitable Statistics estimates that the U.S. has roughly 1.5 million nonprofits employing over 14 million workers. In this program, you will learn about the diversity of nonprofits and how these organizations vary in size, structure and scope. Government agencies contract with nonprofits to conduct research, evaluate programs, and deliver goods and services. Gain understanding of how nonprofits work with each other and with governments at the federal, state and local levels. The Nonprofit Management Graduate Certificate’s curriculum provides a foundation in the concepts, themes and tools of management. Develop the following competencies for the operation and direction of nonprofits. Fundraising best practices including consideration of donor types Managing finances including budgeting, investment and accounting Measuring outcomes and evaluating effectiveness using assessment tools Setting goals The Graduate Certificate in Nonprofit Management is especially suitable for students in the Master of Public Policy (MPP) program and any other program that trains practitioners working in public service careers. This certificate is also a worthwhile investment for the following people. Current nonprofit employees, volunteers and board members looking to increase their organization’s effectiveness Master’s and PhD students seeking greater management-related knowledge and skills PhD students writing dissertations on the nonprofit sector Those looking to work or volunteer for a nonprofit organization Program Format & Curriculum Classes for the Graduate Certificate in Nonprofit Management are held online, with virtual synchronous sessions held in the evenings to accommodate working professionals. Students can be enrolled full or part time and have two years to complete the program. The curriculum consists of four, three-credit courses for a total of 12 credits. The following courses are required. Financial Management for Nonprofit Organizations Nonprofit Fundraising Nonprofit Organization and Management Students choose one of the following electives. Community Based Program Evaluation Leadership in Public Service and Nonprofit Organizations Social Entrepreneurship—Innovative Approaches to Achieving Positive Social Impact Students must pass all courses and maintain a minimum GPA of 3.0 to earn the certificate. Learn more about the coursework for the Nonprofit Management Graduate Certificate. Related Graduate Degrees Master of Public Policy (MPP) Careers Completion of the Nonprofit Management Graduate Certificate signals to employers that the student has a solid foundation in the theory and practical applications required to manage nonprofit organizations. Nonprofit management professionals work in a variety of different settings. The following are examples of nonprofit management roles. Chief financial officer Director of communication Director of development Director of information services Executive director Human resources director Program director Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Contact the following staff member with questions related to advising. Samantha Apgar is the associate director of the Master of Public Policy program and an advisor for the Non-Profit Management Certificate (Graduate). Phone: 215-204-7817 Email: samantha.apgar@temple.edu Program Contact For questions regarding the Nonprofit Management Graduate Certificate, contact the following staff member. Samantha Apgar is the associate director of the Master of Public Policy program and a program contact for the Non-Profit Management Certificate (Graduate). Phone: 215-204-7817 Email: samantha.apgar@temple.edu Gary Mucciaroni is the director of the Master of Public Policy program and a program contact for the Non-Profit Management Certificate (Graduate). Phone: 215-204-6105 Email: gary.mucciaroni@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-NPM-GRAD Additional Program Information Available online. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Non-Profit Management Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info