Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Health and Medicine Date March 18, 2021 2021-03-18 Media Contact Corrie Pikul [email protected] 401-863-1862 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email In front of Congress, Dr. Ashish Jha stresses a global approach to ending COVID-19 pandemic The dean of Brown’s School of Public Health advised members of the U.S. Committee on Foreign Affairs on strategies to end this global health emergency and prepare for the next. In a virtual testimony before Congress, Dr. Ashish Jha, dean of the Brown School of Public Health, discussed the international impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Humans live in a deeply interconnected, interdependent world, and a COVID-19 outbreak anywhere can quickly become an outbreak everywhere. That’s according to Dr. Ashish K. Jha, dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, who spoke as a witness in a U.S. Congress committee hearing on the global impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Jha was one among a panel of experts asked to testify for a Thursday, March 18, hearing titled “A Year Out: Addressing International Impacts of the COVID-19 Pandemic.” Held virtually, the hearing was convened by the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Foreign Affairs. Jha reviewed the profound negative effects of COVID-19 on the global community: infections that may top one billion; an official death toll of 2.6 million, but likely much higher; economic decline (disproportionately affecting the poor); worldwide setbacks in education (again, with potentially dire outcomes for the already-disadvantaged); worsening democracy in many countries; and an increase in authoritarian leaders. He called for a “vigorous, multi-pronged, multi-lateral approach to bring this pandemic to an end.” The priority, he said, should be vaccinating every high-risk person in the world quickly — by the end of 2021. Doing so will require not just increased funding, he said, but substantially expanded vaccine production. The decisions for the U.S. to rejoin the World Health Organization and fund the COVID-19 Vaccines Global Access (COVAX) initiative are just a start: “We must do more to bring this pandemic to an end,” Jha said. International collaboration is essential, he emphasized, because global disease outbreaks will become more common: “We are entering an age of pandemics,” Jha warned multiple times. “We must build the surveillance systems, the health systems, and the resiliency needed to respond more effectively to future health crises.” A video of the proceedings is available on the Committee on Foreign Affairs website. Tags COVID-19 School of Public Health Related news: Health and Medicine Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers May 23, 2022 Elizabeth Samuels, an assistant professor at the Warren Alpert Medical School, and medical student Aneeqah Naeem argued for federal action supporting harm reduction centers such as those authorized in Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers Health and Medicine In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty May 16, 2022 Adriel Barrios-Anderson, who served as a student orator upon earning his bachelor’s degree from Brown in 2017, hopes to inspire newly minted M.D.s to feel confident about embracing the uncertainty of the future. Read Article Open details for In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty Health and Medicine ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition May 3, 2022 The Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2024 celebrated together at an in-person white coat ceremony that was held two years later than usual, but still felt timely. Read Article Open details for ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search In front of Congress, Dr. Ashish Jha stresses a global approach to ending COVID-19 pandemic Open details for In front of Congress, Dr. Ashish Jha stresses a global approach to ending COVID-19 pandemic Bookmark this Page