Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Related Links Boston College Research Undergraduate Research Research Centers and Institutes Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Our faculty members are committed to leading their fields in inquiry and research. They are prominent scholars and innovative researchers who create new knowledge, influence policy, and improve communities. BC faculty members are dedicated to using the resources of a world-class institution to put into action the values of a liberal arts education—working across disciplines and preparing students to become engaged, effective world citizens. Related Links Boston College Research Undergraduate Research Research Centers and Institutes $28 million Morrissey College expenditures for research and other sponsored activities 2020-21 Boston College Fact Book Snapshots of new faculty, 2021–2022 Meet 12 of our new Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences faculty as they talk about choosing their respective fields and what they are working on at Boston College this year. Meet our Faculty Research News 'Novel and exciting' More than 37 million Americans suffer from diabetes. New research findings linking gut microbes with pancreatic function could revolutionize their treatment. ACM recognizes BC computer science professor Associate Professor Jean-Baptiste Tristan is a co-recipient of the Association for Computing Machinery Software System Award. BC history prof named to AAAS Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson is elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 2022 Saint Robert Bellarmine, S.J., Award Professor of Biology Welkin Johnson selected for Commencement faculty honor. Tracking the opioid epidemic A new, penny-sized sensor developed by researchers from BC, BU, and Giner Labs uses wastewater to measure opioid use at the local level. BC professor receives Fulbright Fellowship in Medicine Professor of Communication Ashley Duggan will serve as a senior scholar with Ireland's Royal College of Surgeons. Boston College to partner on study of hazards from plastics An international team will survey health risks posed across the continuum of plastic production, use, and disposal. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers awards $6.2M grant to BC research team A four-year partnership will examine water quality in watersheds and along coastlines in three U.S. regions. Studying "resource deserts" Lacee Satcher, assistant professor of sociology and environmental studies, explores the intersection of inequality, environment, and health. Leading the Way Boston College is a top-tier research institution—elevated in 2016 to an R1 institution, a designation reserved for universities with the highest levels of research activity. More BC Research View More View Less Back To Top Back To Top Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College