HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation HOME DIVISIONS Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Healthy Campus HEALTH TOPICS ADHD Alcohol and Other Drugs Antibiotics Body Image Building Social Connections Fitness Interpersonal Violence Mental Health Nutrition Social Media and Internet Use Sexual Health Sleep Spring Break Safety Stress Suicide Sustainibility Tobacco Wellness When to See a Provider CONTACT ABOUT POLICIES & RECORDS Advance Directives Diversity Eligibility Health Fee Privacy Practice Records & Confidentiality Rights & Responsibilities Student Health Services Student Health Services is an integrated, outpatient organization comprised of three divisions: Medical Services, Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS), and Healthy Campus. Mission Student Health Services strengthens Clemson University by providing quality medical and mental health care, public health leadership and initiatives that enhance the academic success of our students and promote the health, safety and well-being of the campus community. Vision Student Health Services strives to be an innovative health care system providing integrated quality services that are responsive to the needs of the University community. Accreditation Student Health Services is committed to quality health care and patient safety. Receiving accreditation from The Joint Commission is an external sign of our commitment. The Joint Commission is the highest level of health care accreditation — the gold standard by which all health care accreditation is measured. Currently only 17 student health centers in the United States are accredited by The Joint Commission, and Student Health Services is the only The Joint Commission-accredited center in South Carolina. We chose to be reviewed by The Joint Commission because it stands for quality health care and patient safety; so do we. It sets high standards of care and evaluates health care organizations against those standards. Other recognitions include accreditations by the American Psychological Association for our doctoral internship program and the Commission on Office Laboratory Accreditation for our laboratory. Healthy Campus Purpose Statement Healthy Campus strives for Clemson University to be a national model of health, safety and sustainability and for our students to experience a way of life at Clemson University that contributes to their lifelong health and well-being. Healthy Campus achieves this by providing exemplary: Leadership and advocacy for public health policies and structures intended to improve health Engaged learning activities – creative inquiry teams, internships, class projects Partnerships and networks of collaborators to achieve Healthy Campus objectives Population-level interventions 2018 Fall Report 2019 Spring Report 2018-2019 Annual Report CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster