Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships SCHOLARSHIPS, FELLOWSHIPS, AND SPONSORSHIPS Tuck scholarship awards are made possible through the generosity of Tuck alumni, corporations, and nonprofit foundations. There is no separate application process for Tuck scholarships. Tuck’s admissions and financial aid offices will review the application materials submitted by all candidates for admission. Tuck uses discretion in awarding scholarships to incoming students who will significantly contribute to Tuck’s distinctly immersive learning community. We offer scholarships to enroll outstanding students who, absent funding, might not attend the Tuck School. Tuck awards the majority of available scholarship for each round at the time of admission. Additional scholarship offers may be made at a later date as we build our best class. Tuck scholarships range from $10,000 to full tuition with the average being $29,648 per academic year. Scholarships are automatically renewed in the second year, provided that a satisfactory academic record is maintained throughout the first year at Tuck. Students who receive a scholarship will be provided detailed information including name and donor after matriculation. These named scholarships replace the Tuck scholarship already received. All scholarship recipients will be required to write a letter of appreciation to the donor. Consortium for Graduate Study in Management Fellowship Tuck is a proud member of the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management (CGSM). The CGSM is a continually growing and evolving alliance of some of the world’s leading graduate business schools and business organizations. Tuck awards merit-based, full-tuition scholarships to named Consortium Fellows. This scholarship is not a requirement for membership into the CGSM. Forté Tuck is a proud member of Forté, a consortium of educational institutions, businesses, and nonprofit groups formed to increase the number of women business leaders and to support their careers through events, networking, and other career resources. Each year the Tuck admissions committee selects several exceptional women candidates as Forté fellows who receive a Tuck scholarship in addition to the other Forté fellow benefits as outlined on their website. Reaching Out MBA (ROMBA) Reaching Out is a nonprofit organization with over a dozen unique programs dedicated to educating, inspiring, and connecting the LGBTQ MBA community to impact change in the workplace and create the next generation of out leaders. Tuck participates in the ROMBA LGBTQ MBA Fellowship Program and each year names incoming students as ROMBA fellows who will receive a Tuck scholarship as well as access to special mentorship and leadership development programming through ROMBA. Post-9/11 GI Bill® and Yellow Ribbon Program The Post-9/11 GI Bill provides financial support for education to individuals with at least 90 days of aggregate service on or after September 11, 2001, or individuals discharged with a service-connected disability after 30 days, or received a Purple Heart. You must have received an honorable discharge to be eligible for the Post-9/11 GI Bill. The percent is based on creditable active-duty service. In addition to tuition and fees, the GI Bill provides a housing allowance and a book and supplies allowance. The Yellow Ribbon Program (YRP) is a provision of the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2008. The program allows institutions to enter into a voluntary agreement with the VA to fund tuition and fee expenses that exceed the annual VA national maximum cap of $26,042.81 at private institutions for individuals who qualify for the 100 percent eligibility tier. The institution can contribute up to 50 percent of those expenses and VA will match the same amount as the institution. Tuck participates in the Yellow Ribbon Program (YRP) without limitation on the number of veterans enrolled and at a maximum level of $26,000 in funding which will cover full tuition for the 2021-22 academic year. We are proud to support our veterans. Visit the website for up-to-date information on this and other VA education benefits. GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government website at www.benefits.va.gov/gibill. Second Year Scholarship Opportunities The Willard M. Bollenbach Jr. 1949 Fund Two recipients will receive a scholarship award through the Bollenbach Fund. The awards will be given to two second-year Tuck students of superior intellectual capacity and academic achievement, and who show overall promise as a business leader. The specific criteria are: The student is in the top ten percent of the class at the end of the first year. One will be awarded on merit alone and one must also demonstrate financial need. The amount, when combined with any other scholarship, fellowship, grant or sponsorship, will not exceed the amount of tuition. Specific application requirements are available through the Financial Aid Office. William G. McGowan Charitable Fund – McGowan Fellows Program The McGowan Fellows Program provides one full year’s tuition to a selected McGowan fellow in their second year. The program provides support to one MBA student attending ten of the top twenty MBA Programs nationally, including the Tuck School of Business. Eligible students must: Be smart, driven, and principled, with demonstrated leadership potential and dedication to the betterment of society. Have successfully completed the first year of their MBA program with an academic ranking in the top five percent of their class. Specific application requirements are available through the MBA Program Office. The amount, when combined with any other scholarship, fellowship, grant or sponsorship, will not exceed the amount of tuition. Sponsorships Some employers or organizations will offer sponsorships to help fund an MBA. While this can be a great way to minimize debt, we encourage students to review the terms and requirements carefully. If you choose not to return to your employer or follow through with the terms specified by the organization, you may have to reimburse the sponsor immediately. Financial aid is ineligible for prior year charges. Nondiscrimination Policy Dartmouth College is committed to the principle of equal opportunity for all its students, faculty, employees, and applicants for admission and employment. For that reason, Dartmouth does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, disability, or military or veteran status in its programs, organizations, and conditions of employment, admission, or awarding of scholarships. (Dartmouth College refers to the entire institution, including the professional schools, graduate programs, and auxiliary activities.) If you have any questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the Dartmouth Office of Institutional Diversity and Equity at 603-646-3197. Apply Now Connect With Us Take a 360° Tour of Campus Helpful Links Application Materials Additional Info for Applicants Financing Your Degree Admissions FAQ Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Tuck Ambassadors Tuck on Social Tuck 360: MBA Blog Tuck’s 2022-2023 Essay Questions Tuition and Costs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Loan Programs Applying to Tuck Finance Your Degree Home Admissions Home 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy