Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded Marian Spencer Scholarships Scholarship honors legacy of a former civil right leader and UC alum By Cedric Ricks Email CedricEmail Cedric 260-415-8554 May 30, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like Benya Coleman really is a Bearcat. The recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. She plans to study medical sciences in the UC College of Medicine and hopes someday to be an obstetrician. The scholarship honors Cincinnati civil rights icon and UC alumna Marian Spencer, who was instrumental in desegregating Cincinnati’s Coney Island as well as Cincinnati Public Schools. Spencer went on to become the first African American woman elected to Cincinnati City Council in 1983. Benya Coleman in graduation apparel. As a Black student in the late 1930s and early 1940s, Spencer wasn't permitted to live in a dorm on UC’s campus. Today, there is a residence hall that bears her name, opened in 2018. The Marian Spencer Scholars will form a living-learning community housed together in the residence hall. “It's a really big deal,” Coleman a bit teary-eyed told Local 12 News. “I'm beyond grateful right now, and I cannot wait to see what this scholarship is going to open up for me.” UC’s has invested $6 million into the Marian Spencer Scholarship thanks to a donor and matching UC funds. The first 10 Spencer Scholars — students from Cincinnati Public Schools — will start at UC this fall. Within four years, 40 Spencer Scholars will be enrolled on a full academic scholarship at UC. These efforts and many others are creating a pipeline of students who are entering UC from Cincinnati Public Schools. The latest figures show about a 14% increase in applications from CPS students. “The 10 students that were selected all embody Marian Spencer to the fullest,” explains Cindy Jones, director of UC’s Marian Spencer Scholars program, to Local 12 News viewers. “Benya Coleman, she's just one, but all 10 have equally powerful stories. Stories that detail barriers, but also stories that detail resilience.” Listen to the Local 12 News story online. Learn more about Benya Coleman online. Learn more about our Marian Spencer Scholars. Featured image of Benya Coleman and her mother, Terry Adams, being interviewed by Local 12 News journalist Jenna Cisneros. Photo submitted. Tags In The News College of Medicine Student Affairs Student Experience Academic Health Center Diversity Admissions Related Stories College of Medicine to participate in national effort to assess... May 31, 2022 College of Medicine joins national effort to improve teaching clinical reasoning skills Meduza: Genocide in Ukraine May 31, 2022 Erin Farrell Rosenberg, a Visiting Scholar with the Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights at the University of Cincinnati College of Law, was one of four panelists discussing genocide with the Latvian-based news publication Meduza. Ohio recognizes UC's efforts to welcome veterans May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati this week was among the first universities to be recognized by Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine for its efforts to support students with military backgrounds. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top