Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering About Academics Research Extension People News Contacts & Location Search for: Toggle navigation About Academics Research Extension People News Contacts & Location Search for: A New Generation Agricultural Engineer BAE News UHSP Announces Spring 2022 Richard L. Blanton Outstanding Capstone Award Recipients May 16, 2022 NC State Announces 2021-22 Goodnight Early Career Innovators April 25, 2022 NC State Global Celebrates 2022 Outstanding Global Engagement Award Recipients April 25, 2022 Read More News Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Help Us Engineer Natural Solutions In the Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering we embrace natural solutions. See how we’re managing natural resources to address grand challenges related to providing food, water, fiber and energy locally and globally. By the numbers #6 Undergraduate program, US News and World Report #3 Graduate program ranked, US News and World Report 225 Undergraduate Students 75 Graduate Students Over $4 million in new grants awarded in 2020 28 Total Faculty Members 10 New Assistant Professors since 2017 Undergraduate Research Jumpstart your career while gaining technical and soft skills that set you apart from the pack. Hear from BAE faculty and students how undergraduate research impacted their lives for the better. Opportunities Extremely Strong Industry Connections Meet our advisory board. Explore our research and extension areas Bioprocess Engineering Environmental Engineering Ecological Engineering Precision Agriculture and Machine Systems Controlled Environments for Agriculture Data Analytics and Integrated Modelling Sustainable Waste Mangement Think and Do With state-of-the-art facilities and cutting edge technology, our undergraduate and graduate students solve real-world problems in classroom, field and laboratory settings. DEGREE OFFERINGS Undergraduate Bachelor of Science Biological Engineering (BE) Biological & Agricultural Engineering Technology (BAET) Minor in Biological & Agricultural Engineering Technology Graduate Master of Science in Biological and Agricultural Engineering (MS) Master of Biological and Agricultural Engineering (MBAE) Doctor of Philosophy in Biological and Agricultural Engineering (Ph.D.) Online Degrees Master of Biological and Agricultural Engineering (MBAE) Graduate Certificate in the Design and Analysis of Environmental Systems Non-Degree Continuing Education Apply Now Think And Do Study Abroad Engineer without borders. Learn to design and engineer like the ancient Romans did during a summer in Spain. Or travel to Belgium and bolster your knowledge in environmental engineering. Think globally and work locally. Student Clubs From our student chapter of the American Society of Biological and Agricultural Engineers, to Pack Pullers to Fountain Wars, get involved right here in BAE and across the university. Internship/Co-op Experience Gain hands-on job experience while pursuing your degree – and get paid for it – through internships or the Cooperative Education Program. Give a Legacy of Learning Give Gifts big and small strengthen our department and create life-changing opportunities for our students and faculty. They pave the way for ground-breaking research. Events and Conferences There are no upcoming events at this time. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering North Carolina State University | 3100 Faucette Drive | Raleigh, NC | 27695-7625 © 2022 NC State University | Log in | Accessibility | Privacy Back to Top