COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Spanish, Major MajorSpanish All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Modern and Classical Languages and Literatures Wichita State's accelerated bachelor's-to-master's program in Spanish allows you to complete an advanced degree in Spanish, faster, by allowing you to take graduate-level courses that will count both for your bachelor’s degree and in your future master’s program. The Master of Arts (MA) in Spanish from Wichita State combines advanced studies in literature, cultural studies, linguistics, and translation and study-abroad opportunities Learn how Spanish is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be considered for admission, the following requirements must be satisfied: Completion of at least 60 credit hours; A cumulative undergraduate GPA of at least 2.75 and 3.00 in Spanish courses; Completion of three Spanish courses at the 300 level or above; and A letter of recommendation from at least one member of the Spanish faculty. Admission requirements Curriculum Upon admission to the dual/accelerated program, you'll be granted tentative admission to the graduate program in Spanish and allowed to enroll in courses for graduate credit, including 800-level courses, prior to completing undergraduate degree requirements. You're encouraged to create a tentative plan of study in consultation with your undergraduate coordinator and/or graduate coordinator. If you choose to pursue the teacher-education option, you should contact the MCLL office. View the curriculum Careers A degree in Spanish from Wichita State will give you the knowledge and skills to pursue an advanced language degree—and opens doors to careers at home and abroad. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Spanish (Minor) International Business Education - Spanish (PreK-12) Linguistics (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©