COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Innovation at Wichita State Section Menu Innovation at Wichita State Research at Wichita State Applied Learning Innovation Campus About WSU Admissions Stop Video Innovation is more than just talk at WSU. It permeates everything we do, all we aspire to become and reaches far beyond our campus boundaries. Find out how we're student centered, innovation driven. Innovation is more than just talk at WSU. It permeates everything we do, all we aspire to become and reaches far beyond our campus boundaries. Find out how we're student centered, innovation driven. Announcements Sections Topics COVID-19 Exposure MAKE IT HAPPEN WSU's new Division of Innovation and New Ventures takes ideas from anywhere -- students, staff, community members -- to get products and new businesses off the ground. The INV team offers cutting-edge design thinking practices and collaboration with a growing ecosystem of WSU and community resources to make things happen. Visit the INV website Innovation and Design WSU's College of Innovation and Design develops high-demand skills through hands-on experiences and collaborative, project-based learning. Learn more Academic Innovation With our student-centered approach and innovative commitment to applied learning, Wichita State graduates enter the job market real-world experience on their resumes. Learn more Research Wichita State advances faculty and student research by removing barriers between disciplines and rewarding collaboration and creativity. Learn more Economic Development WSU is a major economic driver and force for the greater public good. We serve the region through workforce development, targeted research and business partnerships. Learn more INNOVATION BY THE NUMBERS The Master of Innovation Design (MID) degree program merges arts, science and technology courses, creating opportunities for student/faculty collaboration across WSU’s colleges Learn more GoCreate is a creative community workspace open to creators of all ages and experiences. Bring an idea and they will help make it come to life! Learn more Wichita State's research and academic capacity is elevated and expanded by a growing list of centers and institutes that serve as conduits for new knowledge and insight. Learn more The Shocker Innovation Corps nurtures and supports WSU entrepreneurial teams interested in transitioning their STEM ideas, devices, processes or other intellectual activities into the marketplace. Learn more The College of Innovation & Design and the Center for Entrepreneurship collaborate to deliver programming around innovation, education, venture creation, and making connections to support WSU and regional startups. Learn more Wichita State's Center for Entrepreneurship's Shocker New Venture Competition helps student develop and pitch their ideas and business concepts to a panel of business, finance and industry professionals. Learn more INNOVATION CAMPUS Wichita State University's Innovation Campus brings together resources, ideas, expertise and student talent to make the world a better place. The Innovation Campus features more than 20 national and international companies in an environment designed to foster collaboration and interaction. Innovation Campus website INNOVATION CAMPUS PARTNERS NIAR's WERX GETS 777 FOR PASSENGER-TO-FREIGHTER CONVERSION As part of its rapidly growing Maintenance Repair and Overhaul program, WSU-NIAR WERX, in conjunction with the Kansas Modification Center, will convert the passenger aircraft into a freighter that will be transferred to an external client to meet the growing needs of the e-commerce and express cargo market. Read more about WSU-NIAR WERX Innovation News More Innovation Stories WSU students partner with McConnell to build UV disinfecting robot Air Force to develop F-16 ‘digital twin’ with help from Wichita State NIAR WSU professor wins Sloan Foundation grant for app that assists visually impaired WSU student creates device to screen and diagnose oralfacial disorders Beyond the classroom, beyond the campus Thanks to our location in Kansas' largest city, Wichita State students have applied learning and real-world research opportunities other school can't match. Our vast partnerships in virtually every industry provide students with diverse opportunities to train like professionals—while still in school. Innovation links Office of Research Innovation Campus Office of Innovation and New Ventures College of Innovation and Design Convergence Sciences Initiative 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©