COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Aerospace Engineering, Major MajorAerospace Engineering All Programs College of Engineering Aerospace Engineering The Bachelor of Science (BS) in aerospace engineering will prepare you for a high-paying career designing or analyzing aircraft and spacecraft. You'll have access to some of the best aerospace facilities in the country—and the chance to work and research with faculty and industry professionals on campus and throughout Wichita, the world's “Air Capital.” Learn how aerospace engineering is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application WSU aerospace engineering students gain experience at Airbus, one of the world's leading aerospace companies, right on campus. Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the aerospace engineering program, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Successful NASA career started at Wichita State When he was a high school student considering where to go to college, Alex Kanelakos looked for the best opportunity to get an education that provided real, hands-on work in his field. He chose WSU when he learned about its relationship with NASA. To say it worked out well for him is an understatement. After graduating in 2007, Alex immediately got a job at NASA. He now carries one of the heaviest responsibilities at mission control: training space station crew members for space walks in giant swimming pools, then monitoring them in space. Curriculum You'll start by developing a solid background in math, science and general engineering. Then, you'll move on to aerospace courses covering: aerodynamics – fluid effects on a flight vehicle propulsion – systems associated with producing force or motion stability and control – vehicle behavior and systems required to control it structures – structural components of the flight vehicles An optional track in applied propulsion is available for students majoring in Aerospace Engineering. A departmental honors track is also available for this major. View the curriculum Careers WSU's vast industry connections—and experience-based learning for every major—give aerospace engineering students the chance to grow their professional network, build a resume and earn a paycheck, all while still in school, leading to dream careers with employers like: Boeing (space, commercial and military) Airbus, Cessna/Textron Aviation and Spirit AeroSystems NASA and SpaceX NASCAR U.S. Military Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mechanical Engineering (Minor) Electrical Engineering 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©