Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Life at Penn / Safety & Security / Emergency Preparedness Emergency Preparedness This page provides information to help members of the Penn community prepare for and access help in the event of an emergency of any kind. Resources Campus Security Contact Information Please be alert and report any criminal incident, suspicious behavior or improper security activity to the Division of Public Safety. UPennAlert The UPennAlert Emergency Notification System enables the University to quickly notify the Penn and surrounding Philadelphia community of critical information during a major emergency in three key ways: personal electronic devices, siren and public address systems, and digital displays. Register or update emergency contact information here. Counseling and Psychological Services CAPS offers confidential free professional mental health care for all Penn students. For emergencies, call (215) 898-7021 and press # 1. Counseling Resources The Division of Human Resources provides free counseling, referrals, and information for Penn faculty and staff members and their immediate families regarding personal or professional concerns. Call 888-321-4433, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, for access to one-on-one assistance. International Travel Guidance All University travelers are urged to carefully review the information on Penn Global’s International Travel Guidance website. Resources include Penn’s Global Activities Registry, information about travel health and how to handle emergencies abroad, and more. International Travel Safety Advisories All University travelers are urged to visit the U.S. State Department website for the most current travel information, including country-specific travel alerts and warnings. PennReady Emergency preparedness at the University of Pennsylvania is managed under the PennReady program. Being PennReady means to prevent, prepare for, respond to, and recover from any and all emergencies that could affect the Penn and University City communities. Stay Safe Please be alert and report any criminal incident, suspicious behavior or improper security activity to the Division of Public Safety: Any Campus Phone Dial 511 Off Campus Phone Dial 215-573-3333 Anywhere Dial 911 Explore Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement Diversity Groups & Organizations Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Penn & Philadelphia Safety & Security Spirituality & Religion Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top