COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Business Administration, Master's Master'sBusiness Administration All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Graduate Studies in Business The AACSB-accredited Master of Business Administration (MBA) from Wichita State's Barton School of Business prepares students for leadership in business, government, health-related organizations and other institutions. As a Barton MBA student, you’ll pay the area’s most affordable tuition and enjoy flexible evening classes. Learn how Business Administration is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission to the MBA program is based on the following: GMAT/GRE score Personal goals essay References Current resume TOEFL, IELTS or PTE-Academic score for international applicants For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Learn more by getting outside of the classroom You don’t have to stay on campus for all of your classes. Braden McCall, a business management minor, took advantage of WSU’s Study Abroad Program, spending a semester abroad studying at the ESCE International Business School in Paris, France. Taking management classes while fully immersed in another culture will give Braden the experience he’ll need as he one day pursues a career in mechanical engineering. Curriculum WSU’s MBA is a traditional, management-based program offering course work in accounting, business law, economics, management, finance and marketing. A thesis is not required. Most MBA classes are eight-week hybrids, where you attend class once a week and also complete work online. A fully online degree is also available. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree in business from Wichita State's Barton School will help you take the next step in your career—while opening doors to new possibilities. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Applied Economics (Master's) Public Administration (Master's) Engineering Management (Master's) Management Science and Supply Chain Management (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©