Skip banner navigation Skip to main content Close Navigation Screen Login to myCoyote View the Campus Directory CSUSB Library CSUSB Maps and Directions CSUSB Palm Desert Campus Make a Gift to CSUSB CSUSB Admissions - Global Site Navigation Admissions Overview - Global Site Navigation Apply to CSUSB - Global Site Navigation After I'm Admitted - Global Site Navigation First-year Students - Global Site Navigation Transfer - Global Site Navigation International Students - Global Site Navigation English Language Program - Global Site Navigation Undocumented Student Center - Global Site Navigation Osher Lifelong Learners - Global Site Navigation Military Veterans/Dependents - Global Site Navigation Financial Aid & Scholarships - Global Site Navigation Student Financial Services - Global Site Navigation Summer Session - Global Site Navigation Academics - Global Site Navigation Academic Calendar - Global Site Navigation Academic Advising - Global Site Navigation Degrees & Programs - Global Site Navigation Colleges & Departments - Global Site Navigation Course Catalog / Bulletin - Global Site Navigation Class Schedule - Global Site Navigation Online Programs - Global Site Navigation Academic Success and Undergraduate Advising - Global Site Navigation Graduate Studies - Global Site Navigation Office of the Registrar - Global Site Navigation Academic & Support Resources - Global Site Navigation Academic Research - Global Site Navigation Graduation Initiative 2025 - Global Site Navigation CSUSB Athletics Men's Sports Men's Sports Baseball Men's Sports Basketball Men's Sports Golf Men's Sports Soccer Women's Sports Women's Sports Softball Women's Sports Cheer & Dance Women's Sports Track & Field Women's Sports Cross Country Women's Sports Volleyball Women's Sports Soccer Women's Sports Basketball Campus Life - Global Site Navigation Events Calendar - Global Site Navigation Get Involved - Global Site Navigation Student Services - Global Site Navigation Recreation & Wellness - Global Site Navigation Student Health & Safety - Global Site Navigation Housing & Dining - Global Site Navigation Music & Arts - Global Site Navigation Student Employment - Global Site Navigation Campus Safety & Emergency Info - Global Site Navigation Palm Desert Campus Life - Global Site Navigation About CSUSB - Global Site Navigation Inside CSUSB - Global Site Navigation COVID-19 Campus Map - Global Site Navigation President's Office - Global Site Navigation Shared Governance - Global Site Navigation Strategic Plan 2015-2022 - Global Site Navigation Administrative Divisions - Global Site Navigation Organizational Chart - Global Site Navigation Strategic Communication - Global Site Navigation Mission, Vision & Core Values - Global Site Navigation Accreditation Assessment Site Header Region CSUSB Home We Define the Future Login to myCoyote View the Campus Directory CSUSB Library CSUSB Maps and Directions CSUSB Palm Desert Campus Make a Gift to CSUSB Search CSUSB Search CSUSB CSUSB Main Menu Page Header Inside CSUSB home News For the Media CSUSB Magazine Alert Toggle Inside Search Panel Search Inside CSUSB Search Inside Main Content Region CSUSB president donates artwork representing ‘the beauty in change’ to on-campus center Media Inquiries Joe Gutierrez | Office of Strategic Communication | (909) 537-3007 | joeg@csusb.edu CSUSB president donates artwork representing ‘the beauty in change’ to on-campus center President Tomás D. Morales donated a beaded calavera (skull), made by art student Valeria Vargas, to the CSUSB Undocumented Student Success Center, which he purchased during a Día de los Muertos celebration and auction last November. Published May 16, 2022 President Tomás D. Morales donates a beaded calavera (skull) to the Undocumented Student Success Center. CSUSB art student Valeria Vargas created her piece “Ode to the Inkcap” for the Día de los Muertos (Day of the Dead) celebration and auction last November. The Undocumented Student Success Center (USSC) at Cal State San Bernardino just got a little more vibrant with the donation of a student-made art piece by President Tomás D. Morales on Monday, May 17. The artwork, a beaded calavera (skull) created by CSUSB art student Valeria Vargas, was purchased by Morales during the Día de los Muertos (Day of the Dead) celebration and auction last November, hosted by the university’s Association of Latino Faculty, Staff and Students (ALFSS). “It was a fun night bidding for your work,” Morales told Vargas during the donation. In the weeks leading up to Día de los Muertos, CSUSB’s Robert and Frances Fullerton Museum of Art invited the campus and community to decorate a calavera, or skull, which is an iconic symbol for the Mexican holiday that is celebrated throughout Mexico, in particular the central and south regions, and by people of Mexican heritage elsewhere. CSUSB art student Valeria Vargas created her piece “Ode to the Inkcap” for the Día de los Muertos (Day of the Dead) celebration and auction last November. Money raised during the calavera auction went to ALFSS student scholarships. “This art piece was donated for the Day of the Dead, and specifically, I appreciated that all the money going toward these pieces would be donated to a Latin-based scholarship,” Vargas told the crowd during the donation. Morales said he has a tradition of purchasing student artwork and donating them to various locations on campus. “I just want to tell you how proud I am of this center and the work that you do, the student-peer advisors, the professional staff,” Morales told the USSC. “Dia de los Muertos is another wonderful tradition at Cal State San Bernardino, and I trust that you will find a place for this wonderful piece of artwork.” “The main theme of this skull is the beauty in change,” said Vargas. “And I couldn’t find a better example of this than the undocumented students who come into this office. Especially in these last few years, it’s really been troubling times, and they persevered. It is very amazing that I get this opportunity, so thank you President Morales and thank you to the Undocumented Student Success Center for allowing this to happen.” Vargas’ calavera, called “Ode to the Inkcap,” is an “ode to growing old, appreciating our elders and ancestors and the beauty of our bodies and minds as we enter a new stage of life.” “One mushroom in particular that I am fond of is the inkcap mushroom, but most people don’t recognize that it is an inkcap until it’s in the state of decay,” Vargas explained to the crowd. “And a lot of this has to do with the beauty in growing old and the wisdom that you gain and how we need to appreciate our ancestors and our elders.” Vargas’ calavera is made of glass beads, plaster and polymer clay, which she beaded by hand. The mushrooms have an iridescent look to them that change throughout the day depending on the light, which she says, “really helps with the theme of change.” “It is such an honor for my sculpture to be donated to the USSC,” she said. “I never expected something like this to happen, but knowing that the hardworking students who enter the center may find enjoyment in my art fills me with happiness.” For a 360 view of “Ode to the Inkcap,” visit the RAFFMA YouTube page. More: Valeria Vargas RAFFMA Robert and Frances Fullerton Museum of Art art College of Arts and Letters Tomás D. Morales Dia de Los Muertos Day of the Dead Association of Latino Faculty Staff and Students Undocumented Student Success Center Footer Region CSUSB California State University, San Bernardino 5500 University Parkway San Bernardino, CA 92407 +1 (909) 537-5000 Follow Us CSUSB's Facebook CSUSB's Twitter CSUSB's YouTube CSUSB's Instagram CSUSB's LinkedIn CSUSB's Social Media Column 1 Login myCoyote Login Canvas Blackboard Login Student Email Login Faculty & Staff Email Login CSUSB Drupal Login Of Interest to... Future Students Interests Current Students Interests Faculty & Staff Interests Full-Time Faculty Interests Part-Time Faculty Interests Community & Visitors Interests Alumni & Friends Interests University Partners Interests Military/Veterans Interests Column 2 Employment CSUSB Job Listings - CSUSB Faculty Jobs - CSUSB Career Center - CSUSB Human Resources - CSUSB Student Employment - CSUSB Resources Contact CSUSB Clery Act Annual Safety Reports - CSUSB Title IX Notice - CSUSB Disclosure of Consumer Information - CSUSB Column 3 Campus Services Academic Advising - CSUSB Housing & Residential Life - CSUSB Ombuds Services - CSUSB Parking - CSUSB Police - CSUSB Psychological Counseling - CSUSB Services to Students with Disabilities - CSUSB Student Health Center - CSUSB Transcripts - CSUSB Accessibility Privacy and Security Non-Discrimination Notice Website Copyright/DMCA Policy