Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > Athletics & Recreation > Department News > BC Head Hockey Coach Jerry York announces retirement Channels Close Home Chronicle Art & Culture Athletics & Recreation Campus & Community Humanities Faith & Religion Science, Tech & Health Nation, World & Society Economics BC Events Let there be light Veterans Remembrance Pops Off the Heights 2020 Pops Off the Heights 2020 Pops Off the Heights wins CASE gold award Pops hits a high note Archives BC News Archive Agora Portal Search News Archive Jerry York announces retirement The winningest coach in NCAA hockey history and five-time NCAA champion will end his career after 50 years of Division I coaching, 28 with the Eagles Athletics & Recreation / Department News - Published on April 13, 2022 Jerry York, the winningest coach in NCAA hockey history, five-time NCAA champion, National Hockey League and U.S. Hockey hall of famer, and beloved Boston College ambassador and University citizen, has announced his retirement after 50 years of Division I coaching, including 28 years as coach of the Eagles. York, 76, met with his coaches and players today to inform them of his decision which, he said, was based on a desire to travel more with his wife, Bobbie, play golf for the first time during a weekend in the fall, spend more time with his family, and watch his two grandchildren play hockey, lacrosse, and soccer games in Pittsburgh. “I have been thinking about the possibility of retiring during the past several weeks and it just seemed to me to be the right time to do so,” said York. “I am so blessed to have been involved with Boston College these past 28 years and to have had the opportunity to coach so many wonderful student-athletes.” “It is difficult to put into words all that Jerry York means to Boston College. His record as the winningest coach in NCAA men’s ice hockey and BC hockey speak for themselves, but it is his humility, decency, unwavering commitment to his players, fellow coaches, and all of us in the BC family, and the quiet ways in which he contributes to this community that make him so beloved. He is a legend and one of the classiest individuals to ever coach in college sports.” William V. Campbell Director of Athletics Patrick Kraft William V. Campbell Director of Athletics Patrick Kraft praised York for his unparalleled contributions to Boston College and the sport of hockey. “It is difficult to put into words all that Jerry York means to Boston College,” said Kraft. “His record as the winningest coach in NCAA men’s ice hockey and BC hockey speak for themselves, but it is his humility, decency, unwavering commitment to his players, fellow coaches, and all of us in the BC family, and the quiet ways in which he contributes to this community that make him so beloved. He is a legend and one of the classiest individuals to ever coach in college sports. It has been a joy to work with him, and on behalf of all of us in the BC community I wish him, Bobbie, and his entire family the very best in his retirement years.” York, the Schiller Family Head Hockey Coach, was hired at Boston College in 1994 after coaching for 15 years at Bowling Green University (1979-1994) where he won the national championship in 1984. He began his head coaching career at Clarkson University at the age of 27, leading the Golden Knights from 1972-1979. One of only three coaches in NCAA history to win an NCAA championship at two different schools, York led BC to the national title in 2001, 2008, 2010, and 2012. On December 29, 2012, he became the all-time winningest coach in college hockey, passing Michigan State’s Ron Mason. He finishes his career with 1,123 wins—including a record-setting 41 NCAA tournament victories. York coached the Eagles to nine Hockey East Tournament titles and 12 regular season championships, including at least a share of five of the last seven league titles. He was named Hockey East Coach of the Year in 2004, 2011, 2014, 2018, and most recently in 2021, and won the Spencer Penrose trophy as NCAA Division I Coach of the Year in 1977. Known as a caring mentor who was ever willing to support his players during and after their time at BC, York coached four Hobey Baker Award winners (given to college hockey’s best player), 17 NHL first-round draft picks, 12 Stanley Cup champions, and scores of players who went on to successful careers in the NHL. He also coached multiple Olympians and mentored dozens of individuals who went on to serve as NHL coaches, general managers, and presidents of hockey operations. His reputation for treating all of his players equally and holding them to the highest standard on and off the ice solidified his standing throughout the sporting world and endeared him to generations of hockey players and their families, whether in Potsdam, NY; Bowling Green, Ohio; or in Chestnut Hill. A star player at Boston College High School before coming to the Heights to play for Coach John “Snooks” Kelley, York was named First-Team All-America in 1967 and won the Walter Brown Award for the top American-born player in New England that same year. He scored 134 points as a player (84 goals, 70 assists) and led the Eagles to a 60-29 record, the 1965 Beanpot title, and a second-place finish in the 1965 NCAA Tournament. “The highlight of my career was on June 15, 1994, when BC President J. Donald Monan, S.J., and Athletic Director Chet Gladchuk invited me to meet with them at BC,” said York. “We toured the campus, and later that evening Fr. Monan invited me to his office in Botolph House to talk. ‘I want you to be the next hockey coach at BC,’ he said. ‘I know you will make us proud.’ It has been an honor to serve my alma mater, to work for Fr. Monan and Fr. Leahy, and to coach with so many terrific assistants and fellow BC coaches. I leave knowing that it is the right time to go. The book hasn’t closed, but it is time for me to start a new chapter.” Jack Dunn | University Communications | April 2022 Related links A letter from Coach York to the BC community Boston Globe: Jerry York’s BC teams played the game the right way Video: BC Athletics press conference Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College