Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Veterinary student makes 3D models for surgeons Posted on September 23, 2020 By College of Veterinary Medicine, Media Relations and News Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X JORGE COLON: Having the printout of the actual bone that they're going to be working on, it is-- it's a game changer for the ability for a surgeon to understand how exactly they're going to attack that surgery when they-- when they put the knife to skin. SEAN BELLEFEUILLE: The idea came from a local surgeon that reached out to us and asked us for a 3D printed anatomical model to help him better prepare for a surgical case. So what we did is we took a CT scan and we converted that into a 3D printable model. We sent that over to him. And he was actually able to manipulate the bone. He was also able to take the actual implant and practice on it so that he knows the exact size he needs and the location. JORGE COLON: What Sean is putting together here is an idea that fulfills a need that we didn't know we had. No one has held that larynx in their hand in a malleable way before that you could put sutures and pull that arytenoid back. You can touch it. You can move it. You can look at it you can turn it around. Man, this is unbelievable. SEAN BELLEFEUILLE: So this type of technology is available in the human field but the main issue is the cost. Insurance usually reimburses everything, so these models can cost thousands and thousands of dollars. Our goal as a company is to create a business model and a sales model that reflects the veterinary market, that makes veterinarians and their pet owners able to actually afford this type of technology. And really, what that does is just it benefits everyone. That benefits the pet, the owner, as well as the surgeon to make it an easier procedure. Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. First-year Cornell veterinary student Sean Bellefeuille runs a business that prints 3D anatomical models for surgeons and students. More About veterinary medicine technology 3D printing entrepreneurship startups What to watch next 1:13 MyPlaylist 21st Century DIY: The promise of 3D printing 1:09 MyPlaylist OrthoFit: A fitting solution for repetitive motion injuries 0:30 MyPlaylist Rev Hardware Accelerator summer program surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×