UH College of Education - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Education Submit Close COE Employee Intranet Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search College of Education About Dean's Welcome Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Educator Preparation: Accreditation Support the College Houston is Home Office of Institutional Effectiveness Strategic Plan Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Prospective Students Graduate Recruitment Events Graduate Admissions UH at Sugar Land Programs Post-Baccalaureate (PB) Certificates & Certifications Financial Aid and Scholarships Degrees & Programs Departments Curriculum & Instruction Educational Leadership & Policy Studies Psychological, Health, & Learning Sciences Student Services Financial Aid and Scholarships Certifications PEEPS Food Pantry Technology Services (CITE) Graduation Job Opportunities Advising (Undergraduate) Office of Undergraduate Studies Office of Graduate Studies Operating Procedures for Graduate Students Diversity and Support Research Study Participation Research Welcome from the Associate Dean for Research College of Education Office of Research Team Institutes & Centers Funded Grants and Projects Graduate & Undergraduate Research Alumni Alumni Board Job Opportunities Giving Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Directory Technology Services (CITE) Policies & Procedures MyCOE/Faculty & Staff Intranet Page contents: Departments Apply Now A Leader in Online Education News & Features Virtual Tour Upcoming Events At a Glance Short Takes College Snapshot Contact Us What makes Houston home? COMMITTED TO THE COMMUNITY At the University of Houston College of Education, we’re working to improve educational and health outcomes for all children and families through effective teaching, innovative research and strong partnerships. Students learn in the context of a multicultural city from distinguished professors who merge research with real-world lessons. We’re preparing future teachers, administrators, counselors, psychologists, health specialists, researchers and other leaders to transform lives in Houston and beyond. COVID-19 Updates Our programs How to apply Employee directory COE fast facts PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS: GET STARTED! DEPARTMENTS Curriculum & Instruction Our award-winning teacher-preparation program gives students invaluable classroom experience with support from experienced mentors. At the graduate level, our degrees deepen students’ research skills and content knowledge for career advancement. Together, we're making an impact in schools across the region. Educational Leadership & Policy Studies Our graduate programs prepare aspiring principals, superintendents, special education professionals, higher education administrators and other scholars committed to transformative leadership. We also offer undergraduate minors in special populations and Asian-American studies. Psychological, Health, & Learning Sciences With a focus on improving wellness and quality of life, we offer undergraduate degrees in health and human development and family studies. We also offer graduate degrees in counseling, counseling psychology, school psychology, and measurement, quantitative methods and learning sciences. Apply Now Tour Campus Our Programs A LEADER IN ONLINE EDUCATION As part of a Carnegie-designated Tier One public research institution, we continue to increase our rigor and relevance to the community. Our students can be confident in the quality of our instruction, whether virtual or face or face. In 2022, we earned a No. 14 ranking from U.S. News & World Report for our online master’s degree programs. Our professors are dedicated to helping students achieve their dreams. We hope you’ll make Houston home. Read Dean McPherson’s Statement on George Floyd and Addressing Systemic Racism. NEWS & FEATURES More stories News briefs Media mentions Asian American Studies Mentor Program Helps Students “I was able to grow personally and professionally through the guidance of my mentor,” said undergraduate student Melissa Quach, who participated in the Multicultural Success Initiative peer mentoring program. Read more from the mentees and mentors. Alumni, Community Partner Honored at Star Awards The College of Education celebrated its 2022 award winners for their leadership and service to the community. The winners included a college consultant, a Houston ISD principal, a literacy advocate and an accountant who provides global leadership training. Higher Education Alumna Wins 2022 Rising Star Award Chantelle George, who earned an M.Ed. from the College in 2015, has impacted hundreds of thousands of students nationwide. During the pandemic, she launched a consulting firm to help school districts, colleges and nonprofits prepare traditionally underserved students for postsecondary success. Top Graduates Ready to Transform Education Thirteen top graduates share their goals and advice on how to earn 4.0 GPAs. “Do not be afraid to ask questions, seek help when needed, stay focused, be positive and believe in yourself,” said Larry Chan, who is graduating with a B.S. in teaching and learning. Faculty, Students to Present on Educational Equity at AERA Dozens of UH College of Education members will share their research on teacher preparation, STEM education, learning during the pandemic, and more at the 2022 American Educational Research Association conference in San Diego. School Psychology Student Leads with Empathy An immigrant from Costa Rica, Ph.D. student Elías Loría once struggled to assimilate to a new culture. He’s now using his voice to advocate for social justice as president of UH’s Graduate and Professional Student Association. Professor to Transform Statistics Education Assistant Professor Travis Weiland received a nearly $1.2 million grant from the National Science Foundation to improve statistics education in middle and high schools by creating a supportive professional development program for teachers. Professor Earns National Science Foundation Role Elsa Gonzalez will have the opportunity to help improve student success in STEM fields as a newly selected program director for NSF. “It’s a very important opportunity because of the impact it can have in underrepresented communities,” she said. Three-Time Coog Named Houston ISD Academic Chief Shawn Bird, who earned an M.Ed. and Ed.D. from the College and a B.A. in English, has returned home to help bolster academic performance in the state’s largest district. “You have to invest in the teacher,” he said. “It’s the most important job in society.” Alumni Couple Encourages Coogs to Give Back Kelly and Todd Thurber, co-chairs of the College’s Giving Day Campaign, are encouraging donations to support student scholarships. “Think about what this could do for our city,” said Kelly, a teacher for nearly three decades. “Every little bit helps.” Study: Latino Students in Rural Communities Left Behind Amid COVID-19 Professor Jorge Gonzalez found that one third of the Latino families surveyed in south central Texas did not have access to the internet and over half lacked digital devices. “Our findings are really important because it exposes a digital divide,” he said. Doctoral Student Wins International Teaching Award Meg Eubank won a 2022 Teacher of the Year Award for helping nearly 4,000 students from over 100 countries learn English throughout her career. She was recognized by the TESOL International Association in partnership with National Geographic Learning. UHCOE Online Programs Earn High Ranking The College’s online master’s degree programs were ranked 14th best in the nation on the 2022 list from U.S. News & World Report. “Our professors, rather than just lecturing at us for three hours, they incorporated breakout rooms. They still made it really engaging,” said recent M.Ed. graduate Elizabeth Rodriguez. Researchers Study Vaccine Hesitancy Amid COVID Rise Associate Dean for Research Ezemenari Obasi, who leads the UH HEALTH Research Institute, is working to mitigate COVID risk and illness with culturally responsive strategies. “What we want to do is empower people with strategies that make sense from their cultural standpoint,” Obasi said. Professors’ Program Trains Diverse Nutrition Educators Norma Olvera and collaborators received a $500,000 grant to create a paid internship program to increase the number of Hispanic and Black nutrition educators and address health disparities among children of color. “It’s an excellent opportunity,” Olvera said. Fall 2021 Graduates Recognized with Top Honors Among the approximately 360 graduates are three first-generation college students and future teachers who maintained 4.0 GPAs. “I am immensely proud of the accomplishments of the class of 2021,” said College of Education Dean Bob McPherson. Study: Anti-Gay Slurs Not Targeted Just at Gay Men Associate Professor Nathan Grant Smith explored whether heterosexual men who had their status threatened were more likely to use anti-gay slurs against other heterosexual men. “It is our hope that our research can help men to develop healthy masculinities that lift up all men, gay and straight alike,” Smith said. Professor Finds STEM Stereotypes Begin Young Assistant Professor Allison Master’s study found that children develop beliefs as young as six that boys are more interested than girls in STEM fields. “By the time they reach high school, many girls have made their decision not to pursue degrees in computer science and engineering because they feel they don’t belong,” Master said. Professors’ STEM Research Earns $500,000 Grant Allison Master and Weihua Fan have developed a series of studies to boost girls’ interest and participation in computer science by counteracting stereotypes. “We are interested in gender disparities in STEM because these have such important implications for our society,” Master said. COVID-19 Stress Hinders Parents’ Ability to Feed Children Associate Professor Leslie Frankel’s research found that psychological distress and anxiety induced by the pandemic has made it difficult for parents to gauge when their child is hungry or full, which can harm them in the long run. Assistant Professor Trains Next Generation of School Leaders Keith Butcher’s commitment to education and his students earned him a 2021 Teaching Excellence Award from the College. While he handles administrative work as a program director, mentoring and inspiring students will always be his priority. Academic Advisor Prepares Health Undergrads for Success In addition to helping students select courses and stay on track to graduate, Meggan Gittens offers encouragement and advice. “You’re on the right path,” she tells them. “You just gotta work hard to get where you want to be.” Experience a Virtual Tour of campus and the College of Education's idyllic view of the fountains! We're in a prime spot for studying or relaxing with friends outside. Also check out the Student Center, dorms, dining and more! Befitting of a Tier One public research university, UH has invested in major campus upgrades in recent years. Prospective students can contact coeinfo@uh.edu with questions. UPCOMING EVENTS View UH Calendar Jun 06 12:00 am Spring/Summer 2022: Key Dates Please note these key dates for the regular semester: The last day of class is Saturday, May 2. UH College of Education graduation is Sunday, May 15 at 2 p.m. at the Fertitta Center. The first day of classes for the summer mini semester is 5/16 and for summer sessions one, two and three is 6/6. Enjoy the rest of the semester! Jul 01 12:00 am Apply Now for Grad School! Do not miss the upcoming application deadlines for the College of Education. Upcoming: Apply for the Ed.D. in professional leadership — literacy education by June 1, 2022 and the M.Ed. in curriculum and instruction by July 1, 2022 for fall admission. Aug 19 12:00 am Save the Date: First Lecture 2022 First Lecture returns to an in-person event. Kick off the academic year with inspirational speakers as they provide insights for moving forward toward a better future. Students, faculty, staff and community members are invited to this free event on Friday, Aug. 19, 2022 in-person at the University of Houston. At a Glance 1stto meet tougher education accreditation standards (CAEP) #14Best online graduate education program (U.S. News & World Report) $5M In research activity (2020) 71%Increase in citations of our faculty’s research since 2017 3-Time WinnerTeacher Education “Distinguished Program” (ATE) 35 yearsAPA accreditation for counseling psychology program Short Takes More news briefs A sampling of faculty, staff, student and alumni happenings: Numerous College of Education faculty members were honored for their contributions to UH’s “50-in-5” research initiative: Consuelo Arbona (PHLS), Ann Chen (PHLS), Virmarie Correa-Fernández (PHLS), Marcel de Dios (PHLS), Conra Gist (CUIN), Elsa Gonzalez (ELPS), Jorge Gonzalez (PHLS), Jacqueline Hawkins (ELPS), Cathy Horn (ELPS), Milena Keller-Margulis (PHLS), Dave Louis (ELPS), Anne McClellan (ACES), Lyle McKinney (ELPS), Rosenda Murillo (PHLS), Ezemenari Obasi (PHLS), April Peters-Hawkins (ELPS), Lorraine Reitzel (PHLS), Augustina Reyes (ELPS), Kristi Santi (ELPS) and Amber Thompson (CUIN). At least 10 alumni have won Teacher of the Year awards from their schools for 2021-22: Vanessa Cerrato, Houston ISD’s Eliot Elementary; Gilbert Garza, Houston ISD’s Pugh Elementary; Sandra Gonzalez, Houston ISD’s Cornelius Elementary; Adrienne Laygan, Humble ISD’s Fall Creek Elementary; Michele Lytle, Fort Bend ISD’s Thurgood Marshall High School; Pamela Mandujano-Gómez, Houston ISD’s Jefferson Elementary; Elizabeth Matehuala, Houston ISD’s Pugh Elementary and from the Houston Area Association for Bilingual Educators; Reenee Palacios, Alief ISD’s Collins Elementary; Sandra Ramirez, Aldine ISD’s Orange Grove Elementary and Vanessa Trejo, Houston ISD's Rucker Elementary. Alumna Khalilah Campbell-Rhone has been promoted to assistant superintendent of transformation in Houston ISD. She earned a doctorate in professional leadership, a master’s in administration and supervision, and a bachelor’s in interdisciplinary studies (now teaching and learning). Norma Olvera, a health professor in the Department of Psychological, Health, & Learning Sciences, has been elected president of the Hispanic Health Coalition for a two-year term. COLLEGE SNAPSHOT Learn more about the College’s programs, research, community engagement and more in our new magazine. Prospective students won’t want to miss this useful guide! Read on. Contact Us UH College of Education Stephen Power Farish Hall 3657 Cullen Blvd., Room 214 Houston, TX 77204-5023 Prospective students: coeinfo@uh.edu or 713-743-7676 Undergraduate: coeug@uh.edu or 713-743-5000 Graduate: coegrad@central.uh.edu or 713-743-7676 General: coecomm@uh.edu or 713-743-5010 University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies