Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> Visit The Florida State University Libraries Visit The Florida State University Libraries Due to COVID-19 restrictions, Any new and renewing membership applications will not be processed at this time. The University Libraries at Florida State University welcome visitors and researchers. Any person may visit the libraries and use print materials, licensed databases, government documents, and the FSU Library Catalog on-site. Find information below about visiting the libraries as a student, faculty, staff, or member of the community as well as specific information for using our expansive collection of resources. Search Articles, Books and More... Visiting FSU Libraries Visitor Access Overview Florida State University Libraries Parking Information Maps and Directions Library Hours Wireless Access Information Accessibility Using the Collection Library Catalog Borrowing Policies Off-Campus Access My Library Account Printing, Scanning and Copying Visiting Special Collections Overview Policies and Forms Class Visits Tours DigiNole Visiting Government Documents Visitor Access Overview Government Documents Home Federal Documents Florida Documents U.N. Documents About Government Documents Visiting as a Community Member Visitor Access Overview Borrowing Policies Wireless Access Information Class Visits Special Collections Class Visits I Need To... Find an Article Find Books and More... Find a Journal Find a Database Cite a Resource Access Course Reserves Find Tutoring Information Get Help My Account and Renewals About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!