Skip to content I want to Schedule an Appointment Get a Second Opinion Get Driving Directions MyCHOP Patient Portal Refer a Patient to CHOP Make a Donation Pay a Bill Request Medical Records Find Clinical Trials Volunteer Sign up for Newsletters Get an Estimate for Services Understand My Charges Know My Rights About Surprise Medical Bills Provide Feedback About My Hospital Visit Ways to Give Research International Healthcare Professionals Diversity Careers HOW CAN WE HELP? 1-800-TRY-CHOP Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Menu Search I want to Schedule an Appointment Get a Second Opinion Get Driving Directions MyCHOP Patient Portal Refer a Patient to CHOP Make a Donation Pay a Bill Request Medical Records Find Clinical Trials Volunteer Sign up for Newsletters Get an Estimate for Services Understand My Charges Know My Rights About Surprise Medical Bills Provide Feedback About My Hospital Visit Main menu mobile navigation Find A Doctor Departments Conditions Locations Your Visit King of Prussia Campus Philadelphia Campus Primary Care Centers Specialty Care Centers Urgent Care Centers Utility menu mobile navigation Ways to Give Research International Healthcare Professionals Diversity Careers Find A Doctor Departments Conditions Locations Your Visit King of Prussia Campus Philadelphia Campus Primary Care Centers Specialty Care Centers Urgent Care Centers Make a Gift Search Stephanie Asher, MS, LCGC Stephanie Asher, MS, LCGC, is a senior genetic counselor with the Division of Human Genetics at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. Areas of Expertise: Metabolic disorders, Connective tissue disorders, Williams syndrome Locations: Main Hospital Appointments and Referrals: 1-800-TRY-CHOP (1-800-879-2467) Education and Training Additional Training MS in Medical Genetics - The University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH Board Certification Licensed Certified Genetic Counselor (LCGC) Undergraduate Degree BS in Biology - The College of William & Mary, Williamsburg, VA Titles and Academic Titles Senior Genetic Counselor Departments and Services Division of Human Genetics Research Interests Inborn Errors of Metabolism Connective tissue genetics Cardiomyopathy genetics Publications Papers 2012 Buehler DP, Wiese CB, Skelton SB, Southard-Smith EM. An optimized procedure for fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) isolation of autonomic neural progenitors from visceral organs of fetal mice. J Vis Exp. 2012 Aug 17;(66):e4188. Read the abstract 2011 Corpening, JC, Cantrell, AC, Deal, KK, Skelton, SB, Southard-Smith, EM. Isolation and Live Imaging of Enteric Progenitors based on Sox10-Histone2BVenus Transgene Expression. Genesis. 2011 Jul;49(7):599-618. Read the abstract Awards and Honors Graduated with honors, The College of William & Mary, Williamsburg, VA Leadership and Memberships Memberships in Professional Organizations National Society of Genetic Counselors Patient Experience Ratings About the Patient Experience Rating System The Patient Experience Rating is an average of all responses to the care provider related questions shown above from our nationally-recognized Press Ganey Patient Satisfaction Survey. Patients that are treated in outpatient or hospital environments may receive different surveys, and the volume of responses will vary by question. Responses are measured on a scale of 1 to 5 with 5 being the best score. We are committed to true transparency. However, to ensure the comments are fair and correctly attributed, we review each one before posting to the website. We exclude entire comments that disclose patient's protected health information, are off-topic, or include other confidential or inappropriate content. Comments will appear on provider bios only if providers have a minimum number of comments. Comments are shared internally for education purposes to ensure that we are doing our very best for the patients and families for whom we are privileged to care. The comments are submitted by patients and families and reflect their views and opinions. The comments are not endorsed by and do not reflect the views of Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. Footer Navigation 3401 Civic Center Blvd. Philadelphia, PA 19104 Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Directory Appointments & Information 1-800-879-2467 Foundation 267-426-6500 Research 215-590-3800 Referring Physicians 1-800-879-2467 Explore Conditions & Diseases Doctors Locations Departments & Services Our Organization About CHOP News Room Giving Research For Healthcare Professionals Careers Financial Assistance Policy I want to Schedule an Appointment Get a Second Opinion Get Driving Directions MyCHOP Patient Portal Refer a Patient to CHOP Make a Donation Pay a Bill Request Medical Records Find Clinical Trials Volunteer Sign up for Newsletters Get an Estimate for Services Understand My Charges Know My Rights About Surprise Medical Bills Provide Feedback About My Hospital Visit ©2022 The Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia Terms of Use Privacy Policy HIPAA Notice of Privacy Practices Ethics & Compliance Questions and Feedback Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia is a charitable 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. Language Assistance Available: English Español 繁體中文 العربية বাঙালি Deitsch اردو Türkçe 日本語 ગુજરાતી Deutsch हिंदी Italiano Bahasa Indonesia Tagalog Polski Tiếng Việt Français Português नेपाली ខ្មែរ 한국어 Русский Why not?