Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Student guides First-generation advising guide UAA Advising is excited to support all students, especially those who are first in their family to go to college as we are aware that additional support may be useful to these students as they transition to the University environment. If you are a first-generation student, we invite you to use the resources below to navigate the University, find community, and get helpful advice! First -Gen Student Guides The guides below are meant to help guide you through the beginning of your time here at UW. These were based on feedback from first-gen students and will help you take steps to make the most of your education: First-year student guide Second-year student guide Transfer student guide Get Involved & Create Community Finding community and knowing where to start to get involved on campus can be challenging. Below are some opportunities and resources we’d recommend checking out to begin! First Gen Business Leaders (open to all) firstUW (open to all) FYP’s First Gen at UW: Here you will find opportunities open to first-gen students and communications to subscribe to so that you can stay connected! NASPA Center for First Gen Student Success: Learn more about your first-gen community and read about tips and tricks as you navigate college and plan your future! Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA