COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: English Literature and Composition Pedagogy, Graduate Certificate Graduate CertificateEnglish Literature and Composition Pedagogy All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences English Language and Literature Wichita State’s graduate certificate in English literature and composition pedagogy provides a variety of coursework within the English discipline to further your studies. The certificate is ideal for those working in secondary education, as it emphasizes coursework appropriate to high school educators. Learn how English literature and composition pedagogy is the right fit for you. Contact Coordinator Curriculum The 12-credit-hour graduate certificate includes six credit hours of required courses: Theory and Practice in Composition Advanced Studies in the Graphic Novel or Special Studies You'll then select six credit hours of electives based on your interests and career goals. View the curriculum Admission to the program There are two paths to admission to the program: For those already enrolled in graduate school, simply complete the Declaration of Intent to Pursue a Certificate Form. Prospective students should apply using the Graduate School application for admission. Graduate School Application Meeting HLC requirements to teach college-level courses If you’re a high school teacher and you want to get qualified to meet Higher Learning Commission (HLC) standards, you’ll take six additional credit hours, chosen from the following: ENGL 512, 582, 513, 663, 785, 517, 526, 546, 703, 712, 805, 700, 524, 585, 733, 781. Several classes are offered online on a rotating basis. For additional information on admission and enrollment, visit wichita.edu/hlcteaching. View up-to-date course offerings at wichita.edu/schedule. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©