Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Applied Behavior Analysis MSEd You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Applied Behavior Analysis MSEd Apply Visit Request More Info Applied Behavior Analysis MSEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Applied Behavior Analysis MSEd Temple’s Master of Science in Education in Applied Behavior Analysis trains students to apply the principles of learning and behavior to influence behavior change that is significant to society. Students will learn how to systematically change behavior by analyzing related environmental variables and applying interventions based on the principles of behavior science. Behavior analysts have improved a wide range of everyday issues, including enhancing staff performance, improving public safety initiatives, teaching effective parenting skills, treating problem behavior in children, improving general and special education teaching strategies, rehabilitating individuals who abuse substances, and more. Graduates of the Applied Behavior Analysis MSEd program help fill the growing demand for individuals with applied behavior-analytic training in social service agencies and educational institutions, particularly in service of individuals with autism and other intellectual and developmental disabilities. The Applied Behavior Analysis graduate degree also prepares educators, clinicians and other helping professionals to understand and implement interventions to address skill deficits and performance issues or problem behavior. You’ll graduate with a diverse set of skills, including the ability to analyze environmental variables affecting behavior, create individualized interventions, and assess the effectiveness of interventions to inform data-based decisions on modification and continuation. This program fulfills the degree and coursework requirements (PDF) and partially fulfills the supervised experience requirement for the Board Certified Behavior Analyst credential. The interdisciplinary Applied Behavior Analysis MSEd program blends courses in education and psychology. Courses are taught by faculty with top academic credentials and experience as practitioners. You’ll complete your coursework on a part- or full-time basis on Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia. Some courses are offered at offsite locations. Check out the frequently asked questions about the Applied Behavior Analysis MSEd. Classes & Curriculum Concepts taught in classes include assessment of skill deficits and behavior problems, principles of learning, single subject research methodology and more. See a full list of required and elective courses. Related Graduate Degrees Education PhD with a concentration in Special Education School Psychology EdS School Psychology PhD Special Education MEd Related Graduate Certificates Applied Behavior Analysis Autism Endorsement Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science in Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Student Clubs & Organizations Find peer support and leadership opportunities while tackling the challenges of your program. You’ll also find opportunities to give back to the community, either locally or globally. Students can join the Association for Behavior Analysis International, the national professional organization of the field of behavior analysis, has many opportunities for student presentation and involvement; Graduate Student Organization of the College of Education, which runs community-based events like school supply drives as well as professional development workshops and activities. The organization upholds a strong commitment to social justice, regularly organizing political events and engaging in projects with community partners; Philadelphia Metropolitan Association for Behavior Analysis (PMABA), the local chapter of the Association for Behavior Analysis International, which is hosted by Temple’s Applied Behavior Analysis program. PMABA hosts networking, journal discussion, and professional development events for students and local behavior analysts; Temple University Graduate Students Association, a student employee union that maintains positive working lives and conditions for graduate student assistants; and the Temple Student Pennsylvania State Education Association, which hosts events to share effective classroom techniques and other resources for developing teachers. In addition, there are several other local professional organizations for behavior analysts that encourage student involvement. These include Autism New Jersey, New Jersey Association for Behavior Analysis and Pennsylvania Association of Behavior Analysis. Search for additional College of Education and Human Development and education-related student organizations. Program Contact Jason Travers, associate professor in the Teaching and Learning Department, is the faculty program coordinator for the Applied Behavior Analysis MSEd program. Email: jason.travers@temple.edu Our Advisors Students will be matched with an applied behavior analysis faculty member based on research interests. Your faculty advisor will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. You will work closely with your advisor to complete an empirical research project for your master's thesis. A graduate advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to ensure your smooth passage through the program. Approved Course Sequence The program meets the degree and coursework requirements for the Board Certified Behavior Analyst (BCBA) credential. It includes a Verified Course Sequence (VCS), verified by the Behavior Analyst Certification Board (BACB) and Verified Supervised Experience under the university practicum category. Students will need to obtain additional supervised experience independently to fulfill the remainder of the supervised experience hours required by the BACB. See the Behavior Analyst Certification Board’s website for more information about the requirements for the national BCBA credential, and view the BCBA Examination pass rate report (pdf). Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu Association for Behavior Analysis International Verification The Association for Behavior Analysis International has verified the following courses toward the coursework requirements for eligibility to take the Board Certified Behavior Analyst® or Board Certified Assistant Behavior Analyst® examination. Applicants will need to meet additional requirements before they can be deemed eligible to take the examination. ED-ABA-MSED Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Applied Behavior Analysis MSEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info