Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Schiller Institute Menu Main Nav The Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Schiller Institute Giving Opportunities Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Giving Opportunities Join Our Team Faculty Positions Schiller Reports Academics Overview Courses Global Public Health and the Common Good About People Emily Aarons Hannah Chapdelaine Alissa Kim Mary Pat Lee Summer Mills Abby Clifford Brittney Gedeon Haley Grieco-Page Jenna Mu Jack Murray Alex Pastrana Jane Rasweiler Mansi Shah Claire Spielmann Benjamin Varieur Kurt Straif Tara Casebolt Carolina Battle Sebastian Cota Minor in Global Public Health Research Collaborations & Advocacy Publications Newsletter Initiatives Overview Confronting Environmental Racism Planning Commitee Schiller Student Challenge Schiller Student Challenge Projects Environmental Racism Events Event Archive Global Observatory on Pollution and Health Interdisciplinary Research Buildings Workshop Research Overview Schiller Institute Grants SIGECS Program Description and Application FY22 SIGECS Grantees News & Events Overview Spring 2022 Events Related Links Student Ambassadors Subscribe to our newsletter Contact us Close Giving Opportunities Directory A to Z Listing Search Schiller Institute Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Academics Global Public Health and the Common Good Minor in Global Public Health Global Public Health and the Common Good About Minor in Global Public Health Research Collaborations & Advocacy Publications Minor in Global Public Health & the Common Good Boston College offers an undergraduate minor and a range of courses in Global Public Health and the Common Good. Our entry-level courses are open to students from across Boston College and are designed to introduce students in any field of study to core concepts in public health. Enrollment in the 6-course (18 credit) minor in Global Public Health and the Common Good is by competitive application submitted in the spring of the freshman or sophomore year. Students accepted into the minor have the opportunity to delve deeply into epidemiology, the core science of public health, and to pursue coursework and research in diverse areas of public health such as infectious disease epidemiology, the epidemiology of cancer, children’s environmental health, environmental epidemiology, nutritional epidemiology and refugee health. A distinctive future of the minor is its strong emphasis on the ethical, moral and legal foundations of global public health. The minor provides opportunities for academic and experiential learning, reflection and service in the United States and overseas. The minor in Global Public Health and the Common Good is open to students with career interests in medicine, nursing, environmental studies and public health. It will prepare students for postgraduate studies in public health (MPH and PhD) and enrich the education of students headed to medicine, dentistry and nursing. And because public health is highly interdisciplinary and intersects many fields of human endeavor, the minor is open also to students interested in law, economics, international studies, mathematics, physics, chemistry, the humanities, business, social work and education. Related Links Student Ambassadors Subscribe to our newsletter Contact us Overview Goals Applying The minor in Global Public Health and the Common Good is composed of 3 required courses and 3 electives. The required courses are: Public Health in a Global Society (PHCG1210, cross-listed as NURS1210) Introduction to Epidemiology (PHCG2120) Either Global Public Health Law (PHCG2130) or The Ethics of Global Public Health and the Common Good (PHCG3223, cross-listed as THEO3223) Recognizing that public health is an eclectic field that draws insights and technologies from many disciplines, the approved electives span a wide range of schools and departments across Boston College. Additional courses at Boston College and in other institutions in the United States and overseas may be may be considered as approved electives subject to the approval of the program director and Associate Deans. The goal of the minor in Global Public Health and the Common Good is to introduce students from a wide range of majors, disciplines and schools across Boston College to key concepts in Global Public Health. Program graduates will gain knowledge of: The theory, history and key issues in Global Public Health Epidemiology, the study of the distribution and determinants of health and disease in populations – the core science of public health The social, economic and environmental determinants of health and disease The contributions of public health to the stability and well-being of modern societies The moral, ethical and legal foundations of Global Public Health The minor is open to students interested in medicine, dentistry, nursing, environmental health and public health. It will prepare students for postgraduate studies in public health and enrich the education of students headed to medicine, dentistry, nursing, law, economics, international studies, mathematics, physics, chemistry, the humanities, business, social work and education. The application for the Global Public Health and the Common Good Minor for the 2022-2023 academic year is now closed. The best way to stay informed of all things related to the Global Public Health program, is to subscribe to our newsletter. Admittance to the minor in Global Public Health and the Common Good is by application. Students can apply in the Spring semester of either their freshman or sophomore year. Rising seniors will be considered only if they have already fulfilled many of the course requirements for the minor. We seek a broad range of students from programs and schools across Boston College to apply to the minor. We invite pre-health and nursing students who wish to understand how the health of populations informs the care of individual patients. We invite students from the humanities, business, economics, environmental science, pre-law, political science, international studies and other majors who wish to learn how the health of populations and the social, political, economic and environmental determinants of health and disease influence public policy, drive economic growth, and shape the destiny of nations. Students who wish to apply to the minor are strongly encouraged to take Public Health in a Global Society (NURS1210 cross-listed as PHCG1210) before applying. This course is open to students in all schools at Boston College. Please see our Student Ambassadors page to learn more about the program from current students. Our Student Ambassadors are happy to discuss degree requirements, their favorites classes, and anything else that you'd like to discuss regarding the Global Public Health and the Common Good program at Boston College. Please contact publichealth@bc.edu with any questions regarding the application. + - Minor Requirements The Global Public Health and the Common Good minor consists of 3 Required courses and a selection of 3 Elective courses. Required Courses Public Health in a Global Society (PHCG1210, cross-listed as NURS1210) Introduction to Epidemiology (PHCG2120) Either Global Public Health Law (PHCG2130) or The Ethics of Global Public Health and the Common Good (PHCG3223, cross-listed as THEO3223) In addition to the 3 required courses students are also expected to select 3 elective courses: Two Elective Courses from List A One Elective Course from List B Note: Additional electives may be considered subject to the approval of the Program Director and Associate Deans. Students may also be eligible to take two elective courses from List B and one elective course from List A. Please contact publichealth@bc.edu for further information. Elective Course List Students can use no more than one course to satisfy the requirements of both the Global Public Health minor and your major, another minor, or the University Core. So one of your classes may count towards both the requirements of the minor and your major, another minor, or the University Core, but the remaining classes that you take for the minor must be unique to the minor and cannot count towards your major, another minor, or University Core. In other words, you must take 15 credits that are only counting towards the requirement of the minor. The only exception is for CSON students, for whom two population health nursing courses (NURS4260 and NURS4261) will count as electives. *CSON students are required to complete an additional assignment in NURS4260 if they use the course as an elective for the minor. Please contact the teacher of record of NURS 4260 for more information. Note: The elective courses listed below may not be offered every semester or academic year. Please consult the Course Information and Schedule section of the Agora Portal for the most up-to-date course offerings. Bolded courses will be offered Spring 2022. List A (Select Two) Carroll School of Management MGMT2139 Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship BSLW1113 Climate Change Law & Ethics Connell School of Nursing NURS4260 Population Health Nursing Theory NURS4261 Population Health Practice in the Community NURS5345 Ecuador: Global Health Perspectives Lynch School of Education and Human Development APSY3320 Building Sustainable Communities APSY4151 Health Psychology APSY6397 Social Issues and Social Policy APSY7471 Psychological Responses to Humanitarian Crises School of Theology and Ministry TMCE7052 Theological Bioethics: From the Basics to the Future TMCE7128 Just Sustainability TMCE8072 Human Genetics and Biotechnologies: Challenges for Science and Religion TMCE8159 Catholic Healthcare: History, Contexts, Values, and Principles TMCE8518 Global Health and Theological Ethics Law School LAWS4501 New Frontiers in Environmental Policy * LAWS4503 Water Law and Policy * LAWS4505 Climate Change Law and Policy * LAWS9326 Bioethics and the Law Seminar *Students must take either ENVS2256 or PHCG2130 prior to enrolling in this course. In addition, students must be registered by the department. Please email publichealth@bc.edu for further information. Morrisey College of Arts and Sciences Biology BIOL1440 Sustaining the Biosphere BIOL2300 Biostatistics BIOL5150 Vaccine Development and Public Health Communications COMM4465 Health Communication Core PHCG1701 Maternity and Science: Society, Culture, & Public Health Earth & Environmental Science EESC1174 Climate Change and Society EESC1187 GeoScience and Public Policy EESC2297 Environmental Hydrology ENVS2256 Environmental Law and Policy ENVS3315 Sustainable Agriculture ENVS3345 Environment and Public Health Economics ECON1151 Statistics ECON2213 Economics of Health Policy ECON2242 Public Policy and an Aging Society ECON2273 Development Economics ECON2275 Economic Development: The Experience of El Salvador ECON2277 Environmental Economics and Policy ECON2278 Environmental Economics ECON2289 Which is Better? An Economic Comparison of Health and Health Care in France, the UK, and the US? ECON3315 Economics of Immigration ECON3317 Economics of Inequality ECON3363 Micro Public Policy Issues ECON3373 Impact Evaluation in Developing Counties ECON3374 Development Economics and Policy ECON3385 Health Economics ECON3390 Applied Health Economics ECON3391 Economics of Energy and Development Philosophy PHIL4320 Philosophy of Mental Illness Sociology SOCY1002 Introductory Sociology for Health Care Professionals SOCY1073 States, Markets, and Bodies SOCY1078 Sociology of Health and Illness SOCY1096 Aging and Society SOCY1097 Death and Dying SOCY3373 Sexuality and Society* Theology THEO3222 Bioethics and Social Justice THEO5498 HIV/AIDS and Ethics Woods College of Advancing Studies ADSB1904 Planetary Health List B (Select One) APSY4050 Public Health Practice in the Community (not currently offered) BIOL2320 Case Studies in Epidemiology (not currently offered) PHCG3210 Contemporary Issues in Public Health (formerly NURS3210) NURS5350 Global Healthcare: Meeting Challenges & Connections PHCG3120 Cancer Epidemiology PHCG3300 Global Health: Theory to Practice PHCG4140 Children's Health and the Environment Faculty View More View Less Connell School of Nursing Nadia Abuelezam Assistant Professor Lindsay Horrell Camp Assistant Professor Joyce Edmonds Associate Professor Tam Nguyen Associate Professor Cassie Ryan Clinical Assistant Professor M. Colleen Simonelli Associate Dean for Undergraduate Programs and Clinical Professor Brittney van de Water Assistant Professor Law School Mary Ann Chirba Professor of the Practice David A. Wirth Professor Lynch School of Education and Human Development Rebekah Levine Coley Professor Maureen Kenny Professor Betty Lai Associate Professor James Mahalik Professor Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences David Burgess Professor Jaqueline Calderon Visiting Scholar Tara Casebolt Core Fellow Thomas Chiles Professor and Deluca Chair of Biology Lynn DiBenedetto Associate Professor of the Practice Ismael Ben Fofana Assistant Professor of the Practice Tara Pisani Gareau Associate Professor of the Practice Marc-Jan Gubbels Professor Philip J. Landrigan Professor Babak Momeni Assistant Professor Bryan Ranger Assistant Professor Kurt Straif Visiting Professor School of Social Work Theresa Betancourt Salem Professor in Global Practice Kirsten Davison Donahue and DiFelice Endowed Chair Alethea Desrosiers Research Assistant Professor Summer Sherburne Hawkins Associate Professor Praveen Kumar Assistant Professor Erika Sabbath Associate Professor Catherine Taylor Professor Gautam Yadama Dean School of Theology and Ministry Andrea Vicini, S.J. Affiliate Member of the Ecclesiastical Faculty Back To Top Back To Top The Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Global Public Health and the Common Good 648 Higgins Hall (617) 552-2187 publichealth@bc.edu Twitter 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College