Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Sexual Harassment Policies Get Help Get Help Medical care Confidential help Academic and campus help Help for faculty and staff How faculty and staff can help students Report Report Report to police Report to SMU Report anonymously Report retaliation Protective orders Learn More Learn More SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sexual assault and consent Definitions and examples Campus security Message from President Turner SMU Task Force Get involved Get involved Education and prevention Awareness tips Request a presentation Resources ☰ Sexual Harassment Report Protective orders Protective orders Crime victims in Texas are guaranteed certain rights, as outlined in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Office of the Attorney General has more information in its Crime Victims Publications online. SMU can assist victims in applying for a protective order, which tells a person to stay 500 feet from where the protected person lives or works. It instructs a person not to commit or threaten violence, or stalk the person applying for protection. Applications for protective orders are made at the Dallas County District Attorney’s Office Family Violence Division at the Frank Crowley Courthouse, 133 N. Riverfront Blvd., 214-653-3528. For more information: dallascounty.org/government/district-attorney/divisions/family-violence.php SMU Police keep a copy of protective orders on file. SMU honors protective orders and complies with the state laws regarding protective orders. If a protective order is violated, the protected person should call police immediately. For more information, call SMU Police at 214-768-3333. Protecting information In accordance with the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure, Art. 57, victims may use a pseudonym to protect their identity. A pseudonym is a set of initials or a fictitious name chosen by the victim to be used in all public files and records concerning the alleged offense. SMU will not include a victim’s personally identifying information in any publicly available recordkeeping, including Clery Act reporting and disclosures such as the annual security report and the daily crime log. In some cases, SMU may need to disclose some information about a victim to a third party to provide necessary accommodations or protective measures in a timely manner. Report Report to police Report to SMU Report anonymously Report retaliation Protective orders Resources In case of emergency or for criminal reporting, please call SMU Police, 214-768-3333, or pick up a blue-light phone on campus. Confidential Resources SMU Counseling Services 214-768-2277 SMU Chaplain’s Office 214-768-4502 Additional SMU resources SMU Title IX Coordinator (for internal grievance information and reporting) 214-768-3601 Office of Student Advocacy & Support 214-768-4512 Anonymous reporting 214-768-2TIP (2847) Community resources Dallas Area Rape Crisis Center (DARCC) 972-641-7273 Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) Program 214-345-6203 Learn more about resources. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share