Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information Race, Equity and Justice Resources The UW Alumni Association is committed to diversity, equity and inclusion, and to advancing understanding and actions that are actively anti-racist. The UWAA’s mission to advance higher education and support the UW is grounded in the premise that an organized community of nearly 500,000 graduates is a force for extraordinary change. Our objective is to lead substantive change within our membership and the broad alumni community, to engage marginalized alums and amplify Black, Indigenous and people of color (BIPOC) voices. Read our annual racial equity update. The public events, resources and stories shared on this page highlight UW and UWAA led-programming and conversations. If you have any questions, comments or ideas for future content for this page, please contact us at uwalumni@uw.edu or 206.543.0540. Programs and Events No upcoming events. Resources University Book Store Anti-Racist Reading Kits Wherever you find yourself on your journey, University Book Store has the resources you need. Link Career Tips Top Job Boards for People of Color Explore job boards that work to create an inclusive and equitable workforce. Link Diversity at the UW Diversity Blueprint How the UW plans to become an equitable environment for learning, research, service and outreach. Link Online Learning BlackPast African American history reference center started by UW professsor Quintard Taylor. Link UWAA community Multicultural Alumni Partnership Founded in 1994, the Multicultural Alumni Partnership is dedicated to promoting diversity at the UW. Link Race, Equity and Justice UWAA Racial Equity Update 2020-2021 Learn actions the UWAA took to advance inclusivity. Link Equity Focus Race & Equity Initiative Anti-Racism Resources Resources to gain a understanding of manifestations of racism in the US. Link Asian American, Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander Heritage Month Our Stories Are Your Stories Celebrate AANHPI Heritage Month with stories from the community. Link Diversity at UW Center for Communication, Difference, and Equity Where our community of students, faculty, staff and alumni gather to promote greater equity. Link Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity Black Opportunity Fund Your support will make a difference in addressing systemic racism and inequity. Link Stories and News UW Magazine The Kelly at 50 The Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center celebrates 50 years of diversity. Link College of Arts & Sciences In Classics, a different take on race History is a mirror in Chris Waldo's "Race and Identity in Antiquity" course. Link Spring 2022 Viewpoint Telling the story of diversity at the University of Washington. Link Multicultural Alumni Partnership Meet the 2022 MAP Distinguished Alumni These alumni are celebrated for their passion for diversity and social justice. Link College of Education Play helps close the equity gap A broad coalition in Seattle-King County leads the way toward systemic change. Link Viewpoint Why we ♥ the ECC Nine alumni share their love of the Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center. Link March 2022 UW Magazine Jean Smart, Kelly ECC, For the Love of iPhone, and The Voice of Yakima Valley. Link Viewpoint Beloved Communities The College of Built Environments helps historically Black churches survive. Link UW News How Black Lives Matter protests sparked interest, can lead to change After Black Lives Matter formed, new ways of talking about race gained traction. Link VIEWPOINT MAGAZINE Honoring Frank Irigon Activist and advocate Frank Irigon, '76, '79, honored with 2022 Odegaard Award. Link UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA