Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home Giving : Student Giving Student Giving Join the iGive 2021 Campaign! It’s giving time! Join your team of remarkable iSchool students in the iGive campaign, an annual semester-long event where iSchoolers volunteer their time and expertise in their communities. Last year, iSchool students contributed hundreds of hours of service to Central Texas and beyond! We count any volunteer work that you do, so play to your strengths! Whether it is working a shift at the food bank, lending your data or archive skills to a non-profit, or assisting virtual events and conferences on behalf of an organization, you are making difference in your community while honing the skills you’re learning at the iSchool. iGive volunteer hours can be done virtually or in person, in a group or individually, and include career and student organization volunteer time, internships, capstones, and practicums! Our goal is to have at least 100 iSchool students volunteer for a minimum of two hours this semester to help their community. Don’t forget to tell us about it! Log Your Hours: You can log your iGive hours until January 21st, 2022. Hours accumulated between August 25th (the first class day) and January 21st can be counted. Make sure that you are logging your iGive hours online so they can be counted! Hours submitted to faculty or staff via email will not be included in the final tally. Submit Your Hours Here iGive Infographic-2021.png UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022