Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Expresso Yourself: Public Art & the Fight Against Street Harassment Events Past Event Expresso Yourself: Public Art & the Fight Against Street Harassment Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo May 27, 2020 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM America/New_York Online SVR will be in conversation with Visual Artist, Tatyana Fazlalizadeh regarding her work addressing the issue of street harassment at the intersections of identity. Focusing on her public art project and book, Stop Telling Women to Smile, Tatyana will discuss the origin and execution of her work globally. She will walk us through some of her pieces and share her process as well as the many stories of street harassment that she has elevated and brought to light. Tatyana Fazlalizadeh is a Black / Iranian visual artist and Oklahoma City native. She is a painter whose work ranges from the gallery to the streets, using visual art to address the daily oppressive experiences of marginalized people through beautifully drawn and painted portraits. Her street art series, “Stop Telling Women to Smile,” addressing sexual harassment in public spaces, can be found on walls across the globe. In 2019, she was the inaugural Public Artist in Residence for the New York City Commission on Human Rights. Fazlalizadeh has been profiled by the New York Times, NPR, MSNBC, the New Yorker, Time Magazine. Fazlalizadeh’s work can be seen on Spike Lee's Netflix series, She's Gotta Have It, for which she is also served as the show's art consultant. In 2020, Tatyana's debut book Stop Telling Women to Smile: Stories of Street Harassment and How We're Taking Back Our Power released from Seal Press. She is based in Brooklyn, NY. Register here: https://columbiacuimc.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_Xhrg-MECSjicOC56jHASYg Contact Information Columbia Health Sexual Violence Response 212-854-HELP (4357) [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close