Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends Parents Search BC.edu Links Parents Leadership Council Menu Main Nav Parents Leadership Council Donate Back Back Close Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The Parents Leadership Council (PLC) comprises a diverse community of more than 400 Boston College families from all over the world who are passionate about preparing their children for leadership, service, and civic engagement. Council members receive invitations to special events throughout the year featuring key BC leaders including University President William P. Leahy, S.J., Provost David Quigley, and others. Learn more about other PLC benefits today. All members of the council have made a significant commitment to Boston College and are members of the 1863 Society's Gasson or Monan Circle, which recognizes annual gifts of $10,000 or more. Thank you to all our current Parents Leadership Council members. We greatly appreciate your commitment and support of the University and its students. Contact the PLC For information, please contact: Jennifer Cross Associate Director Parent Development jennifer.cross@bc.edu 617-552-9168 Parent Perspectives: Hear how joining the PLC has made an impact Members of the Parents Leadership Council Provide feedback and guidance on a wide range of University priorities Support BC with an annual leadership gift of $10,000 or more to an area you care most about Serve as ambassadors by fostering relationships with fellow parents to broaden their University knowledge and encourage their support Host and attend First Year Sendoffs, BC parent receptions to welcome families, and other regional events Parents Leadership Council Benefits BC Parents BC Parents Leadership Council Parent Newsletter ✓ ✓ BC Alumni Social Media ✓ ✓ Parents Weekend Athletics Discounts ✓ ✓ BC Alumni Association Membership ✓ ✓ Career Center Partnerships ✓ ✓ 1863 Society benefits for Gasson or Monan leadership levels ✓ ✓ Annual Parent Impact Report ✓ PLC conference calls with University leaders ✓ PLC Annual Meeting (held during Parents Weekend) ✓ PLC In-the-Know Monthly Emails ✓ PLC Annual Meeting and Tailgate Photo Gallery “You are joining a diverse, joyous community that shares a passion for academic, social, and spiritual formation—a community that embraces St. Ignatius' charge to 'go and set the world aflame.'” —Wendy '87 and Mike Esposito, P'18 Join Our PLC Community Today Whether you are interested in joining the PLC or want to learn more, please fill out the form below and one of our Parent Development team members will be in touch with you. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok