David Winton Bell Gallery Home Exhibitions Current Upcoming Past Virtual Bell Events Upcoming Past Collection Quick Search Advanced Search Drawings Highlights Overview View All Paintings Highlights Overview View All Prints Highlights Overview View All Photography Highlights Overview View All Public Art Sculpture Highlights Overview View All Publications 2010 - present 2000s 1990s 1980s 1970s About The Gallery Hours Contact Us Directions Mailing List Terms of Use Follow Re: Bell Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Collection Overview Prints Highlights Overview View All Works from the print collection are available for viewing in the Print Study Room. Interested parties should contact the Bell Gallery two-weeks in advance of their visit. The Bell Gallery Collection contains more than three thousand prints spanning the history of the medium from the fifteenth century to the present day. The Old Master collection includes works from the fifteenth century by Hans Baldung, Lucas van Leyden, and Andrea Mantegna; from the sixteenth century by Hans Sebald Beham, Hendrik Goltzuis, George Pencz, and Jan Sadeler; and from the seventeenth century by Jan Both, Jacques Callot, Cornelius Dusart, Claude Gellée, and Jacob von Ruisdael, among others. A two-volume scrapbook of William Hogarth’s prints contains over 100 impressions by and after the British satirist. Nineteenth-century printmaking is represented in 675 impressions by European and American masters. Chief among them are Francisco Goya’s Disasters of War etchings and Honoré Daumier’s satirical lithographs. Works by James McNeill Whistler, Edgar Degas, Édouard Manet, Berthe Morisot, and Aubrey Beardsley round out the century and provide a sampling of late-century styles ranging from Impressionism to Art Nouveau. The collection of twentieth-century prints is the most substantial. Included are images by European modernist such as Hans Arp, Henri Matisse, Joan Miro, and Pablo Picasso, and German expressionists including Ernst Kirchner, Karl Schmidt-Rottluft, George Grosz, Max Beckman, Otto Muller, Lovis Corinth and Otto Dix. There are early twentieth-century American prints by Peggy Bacon, Thomas Benton, Charles Burchfield, George Bellows, and Edward Hopper. And, work by influential printmaker/teachers — Leonard Baskin, Gabor Peterdi, and Stanley William Hayter. Pop art is well represented with forty screenprints by Andy Warhol and other pop imagery by Jim Dine, Jasper Johns, Roy Lichtenstein, Larry Rivers, Tom Wessleman, and Claes Oldenburg. A collection of British Pop includes works by Patrick Caulfield, Harold Cohen, Ronald King, and Eduardo Paolozzi, among others. There are photorealist images by Robert Cottingham and Richard Estes, and minimalist and Color Field works by Robert Mangold, Robert Ryman, Agnes Martin, Richard Serra, Ellworth Kelly, and Kenneth Nolan. The collection includes a considerable number of Frank Stella prints dating from the mid-1960s to the early 1970s and one large shaped print from the Moby Dick series of 1992. Works by Robert Motherwell, Joan Snyder, Jennifer Bartlett, and April Gornik are also included in the collection. Finally, the latter half of the twentieth century is represented by Robert Arneson, Brodsky and Utkin, Ida Applebroog, Eric Fischl, Donald Sultan, David Salle, Mel Bochner, Jonathan Lasker, Julian Schnabel, and Komar and Melamid, among others. © Copyright 2011 David Winton Bell GalleryBrown UniversityTerms of UseDesign by Malcolm Grear Designers David Winton Bell Gallery, List Art Building, Brown University. 64 College Street, Providence, RI 02912