Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Visual Art Show/Hide About People Academics News + Events Resources FAQs FAQs I am visiting campus soon, can I visit the Art Department? Prospective students are welcome to visit our facilities in the List Art Building for a self-guided tour. Student-led tours can be arranged during the academic year on Mondays or Fridays. Student-led tours depend on the availability of our student guides and should be arranged for in advance. The List Art Building is open from 8:00 am – 4:00 pm during the summer and from 8:30am-5:00pm during the academic year. Fill out this form to book a tour of the Department of Visual Art. Can I meet with a professor for a portfolio review? Students applying to Brown should not submit the Common Application Arts Supplement. Information about submitting a portfolio as a supplement to your application to Brown can be found at the Admission Department's Website. Portfolios will be reviewed as part of the admissions process. Our faculty are not able to meet individually with prospective students for portfolio reviews. What advice can you give me about a visual art portfolio supplement to my Common Application for admission to Brown? Portfolios should include recent work and each piece should be clearly labeled with your name and the title, medium, dimensions, and date of the work. Include work that indicates your skill level in a variety of media. Remember that this is not a requirement for your admissions application; it is a supplement. I am interested in the Brown/RISD Dual Degree Program. Who can I talk with to learn more about this program? Brown’s Program Coordinator is Deputy Dean of the College Christopher Dennis ([email protected], 401/863-6244) and RISD’s Program Coordinator is Brown RISD Dual Degree Advisor Assistant Cassie Bower ([email protected], 401/863-9800). I took AP Studio Art in high school, may I waive out of VISA0100? A strong foundation in high school art will help you with any class you take at Brown. VISA0100 would still be required. This foundation level course is required for students wishing to take a class at RISD as well as for many other VISA courses. I took AP Art History in high school and received a high score on my SAT subject test. Can I receive credit for it at Brown? No. The Visual Art Department does not grant credit for advanced placement Art History taken in high school, but it is possible to take another History of Art and Architecture course in lieu of this requirement with your VA Concentration Advisor's approval. I entered my name into the lottery for VISA0100 and I did not get placed. I really want to take VISA0100 and other art courses, what should I do? You should absolutely attend the first day of any section that works with your schedule. The two week shopping period at Brown, combined with the on-line registration system, means that class rosters are very fluid at the beginning of the semester. Students who do not attend the first day are often dropped from the roster. Instructors will have a sign-in sheet and a waiting list for each class. Priority is given to students who intend to concentrate in Visual Art. I really want to take a course at RISD. What should I do? Students at Brown may obtain cross-registration forms either in person or online at the Brown Registrar’s Office. Permission of the RISD instructor and VISA0100 is required for cross-registration. When students intend to enroll in four or more courses at RISD or if they wish to enroll in a RISD course that satisfies RISD’s Liberal Arts requirements, they must file a petition. RISD's academic calendar is different from Brown's, so scheduling this with Brown can be a little tricky. It is possible, but taking the course should be carefully planned with your Brown course load, dorm schedule, etc. Winter Session can provide a nice opportunity for Brown students to have an intensive studio experience. How does the VISA0100 lottery work? During pre-registration, the Department of Visual Art will run a lottery for VISA0100. Students should log into [email protected] to access the VISA0100 lottery sign-up form. All students who enter the lottery will receive an email from the Department informing them whether they have been successfully placed and to then request an override code. All students who are placed into a section must attend the first day of class to secure their spot. Instructors will approve override codes after the first day of class. Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Visual Art Visual Art Brown University Box 1861 List Art Building 64 College St Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2423 Fax: 401-863-1680 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Custom Footer Links A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat