Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityAbout Marquette About Marquette Admissions Applying to Marquette Ready to apply? The links below will direct you to the online application pages for each college, school or special academic program. ADMISSIONS FOR Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Graduate business Dentistry Law SPECIAL ACADEMIC PROGRAMS Study abroad Study in Washington, D.C. Special academic programs International students Transfer students Summer studies Visit Marquette Marquette University, an urban university located in Milwaukee, Wis., provides daily visits to prospective students. Visit Marquette. Watch students tell their stories What's it like to live, study and play at Marquette University? Nobody knows better than those doing just that. Watch students tell their stories in My Marquette. Academics Academics at Marquette Marquette is routinely listed among the country's top universities, renowned for academic rigor, innovation and the achievements of its community of scholars. Colleges and schools Klingler College of Arts and Sciences College of Business Administration Diederich College of Communication School of Dentistry College of Education Opus College of Engineering Graduate School Graduate School of Management College of Health Sciences Law School College of Nursing Rankings Marquette ranks 84th in the 2020 edition of America's Best Colleges, released by U.S. News & World Report. View more rankings. Enhance your experience Whether it's through studying abroad, community service or student organizations, Marquette students take advantage of numerous programs to add to their experience. About About Marquette Marquette is a Catholic and Jesuit university located in Milwaukee, Wis., that offers more than 80 majors in its nationally and internationally recognized colleges and schools. About Marquette Tuition & costs Catholic & Jesuit Diversity at Marquette Our mission Our history Student demographics Academics Colleges & schools Majors & programs How we measure the student experience Assessment Accreditation Rankings & recognition Marquette en Español Acerca de Marquette Beyond the classroom Community Engagement Corporate Engagement Land Acknowledgment COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Libraries The libraries at Marquette The libraries at Marquette are a place where people, technology, and the printed word come together in a vibrant atmosphere that advances learning and discovery. Raynor Memorial Libraries Raynor Memorial Libraries website Library hours Raynor Memorial information desk: (414) 288-7556 Law Library Ray & Kay Eckstein Law Library website Current semester hours Building hours Student services Law information desk: (414) 288-7031 Collections and archives The Department of Special Collections and University Archives features university treasures, including the J.R.R. Tolkien Collection. University Archives Learn about the collections Search the collections Digitized collections Research Research at Marquette Research at Marquette has a strong sense of purpose and action, whether through the extension of knowledge beyond existing boundaries, the development of solutions to the world’s most pressing problems or the search for answers to life’s deepest questions. Learn more Grants, awards & presentations Books by Marquette faculty Discover research at Marquette Centers & institutes Faculty awards Office of Research & Innovation Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Marquette experts DISCOVER Marquette research Every spring, DISCOVER: Marquette University Research and Scholarship showcases some of the most interesting research happening on and off campus. Check out our interactive 2019 Discover Magazine Accessible PDF See past issues Athletics Athletics at Marquette The university's 16 varsity sports teams play in the BIG EAST Conference. Join us as we proudly say: We are Marquette! Teams Men's basketball Women's basketball Cross country Men's golf Men's lacrosse Women's lacrosse Men's soccer Women's soccer Men's tennis Women's tennis Track & field Women's volleyball Tickets The Ticket Office conducts ticketing for seven Golden Eagles' varsity sports: men’s and women’s basketball, men’s and women’s lacrosse, men’s and women’s soccer and women’s volleyball. Spirit Shop The Spirit Shop features the most popular brands of attire for Marquette fans. Shop on campus or online. Alumni Marquette alumni Ring out ahoya with fellow alumni through the Marquette University Alumni Association, an organization of nearly 110,000 members worldwide. Learn more About MUAA Class notes and news Clubs & chapters Events & reunions Alumni Newsletter Networking Join the CIRCLES business networking program Connect with the MUAA group on LinkedIn Marquette Magazine Marquette Magazine is the university's official quarterly alumni publication. View latest issue. Giving Help to enrich and expand student opportunities, support our teacher-scholars, foster innovation and transform our campus. Give online today and rise with us! Marquette.edu // About Marquette // Service The promotion of justice and faith through service is an ideal at the center of Marquette's mission as a Catholic and Jesuit university. Sure, a university can teach philosophy and theology courses, hoping to cultivate in students the seeds of ethical and moral thought — but those seeds won't grow without action. And action is at the heart of the Marquette experience. Student-led service efforts Community Day of Service On-campus service organizations Marquette students respond to that call with a vigor unparalleled by most universities. Each year, more than 80 percent of Marquette undergraduates participate in community service — and that number increases annually. In fact, since 2006, Marquette has been named to the President's Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll three times. Community service is not required at Marquette, but few students leave here without leading through service in and with the community. Our students — and you — can discover that the best way to make a difference is by taking action. Offices for service Service Learning Campus Ministry Center for Community Service Service Learning Service Learning is an academic program that gives students the opportunity to perform meaningful community service that is directly related to their courses. Each semester, approximately 1,200 students from 55 to 65 university courses work at 110 to 130 community agencies — where they can actually practice what they're learning. Students from a Spanish conversation course might work as a classroom assistant in an English as a Second Language course or students from the Psychology of Prejudice course might work with diverse populations and reflect on their own prejudices. You'll find service learning courses in the colleges of Arts and Sciences, Business Administration, Communication, Education, Engineering, Health Sciences, and Nursing and in the School of Dentistry. Undergraduate and graduate courses use service learning as a pedagogy across the university. To find out what courses offer service learning, please see the Service learning snapshot. Service learning programs Service learning FAQs International service learning Contact information Location: 707 Building, room 303 Phone: (414) 288-0250 Campus Ministry Campus Ministry offers the following faith-based service opportunities: M.A.P. Since 1977, Marquette students have taken meaningful service trips during spring break. The Marquette Action Program offers the chance to work and interact with people all over the United States. I.M.A.P. Belize Marquette students and Campus Ministry staff participate in the International Marquette Action Program during Christmas break. Working with a parish in Punta Gorda, Belize, participants help nearby rural villages. Midnight Run Midnight Run is a volunteer service program that began in 1988. It focuses on the needs of the hungry and homeless living in the community around Marquette. This program is organized by a team of Marquette students under the supervision of Campus Ministry. Ignatian Collegians Each year, dozens of students work in parishes and churches throughout the Milwaukee area teaching religious education and helping with youth programs. Commitments are for a semester or for a year and include regular reflection with other Ignatian collegians, led by Campus Ministry staff. Contact information Location: AMU, room 236 Phone: (414) 288-6873 Center for Community Service The Center for Community Service provides opportunities for Marquette students to enhance, expand and enrich their total educational experience by developing a connection to community through service with others. We maintain relationships with numerous agencies in Milwaukee and promote sustained support for and awareness around community needs and strengths. We facilitate one-time and weekend service experiences throughout the year; promote ongoing volunteer opportunities; offer resources for service preparation and reflection; advise student organizations committed to service and engagement; serve as a resource for postgraduate service opportunities nationally and internationally; provide group transportation assistance to and from service projects; and send monthly e-newsletters highlighting local volunteer needs and upcoming programs to students interested in leading through service. The Center for Community Service also supports the year-round planning, awareness and fundraising efforts of approximately 30 student leaders who organize, promote and implement Community Day of Service, Marquette's largest service event, in April. Each year, approximately 1,500 serve their community while funds raised support the ongoing efforts of local nonprofits addressing issues of poverty. Students may apply for these leadership roles in the fall semester. Contact through the Office of Student Development Professional staff, Center for Community Service Location: AMU, room 329 Phone: (414) 288-1412 Student staff, Center for Leadership, Service and Involvement Location: AMU, room 137 Phone: (414) 288-5791 Email: mucommunity@marquette.edu Service Honor Roll Marquette University was named to The Princeton Review Guide to Green Colleges: 2022 Edition. The university received a Green Rating of 88/99 for the 2022 guide. The report notes that students who attend Marquette will find opportunities to engage and support environmental sustainability throughout campus, from the classroom to their residence halls and everywhere in between. Service Scholarships The Burke Scholarship Program The Trinity Fellows Program Location Marquette University 1250 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (800) 222-6544 Key Resources español Employment Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu COVID-19 Information eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©