Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Computer Engineering (BSCpE) – Digital VLSI Circuits Track Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Electrical & Computer Engr In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Admission Requirements Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must be in good academic standing and must have a "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311C, MAC 2312, PHY 2048C, and CHS 1440 or CHM 2045C. Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must complete a change of major in the term of completion of the final pending prerequisite course(s) listed above. Degree Requirements Students in the Computer Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Computer Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Computer Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Computer Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Aeronautical Engineering Professor Ceramic Engineering Professor Chemical Engineering Professor Civil Engineering Professor Computer Hardware Designer Computer Hardware Developer Computer Hardware Engineer Electrical Engineering Director Electrical Engineering Professor Electronics Engineering Professor Engineering Design Manager Engineering Manager Engineering Research Manager Global Engineering Manager Industrial Engineering Professor Manufacturing Engineering Professor Marine Engineering Professor Mechanical Engineering Professor Petroleum Engineering Professor Process Engineering Manager Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Bachelors Computer Engineering (BSCpE) - Digital VLSI Circuits Track University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Admission Requirements Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must be in good academic standing and must have a "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311C, MAC 2312, PHY 2048C, and CHS 1440 or CHM 2045C. Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must complete a change of major in the term of completion of the final pending prerequisite course(s) listed above. Degree Requirements Students in the Computer Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Computer Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Computer Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Computer Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 2 Total Credits Complete all of the following The College of Engineering & Computer Science requires all engineering students to achieve a minimum 2.25 GPA in completing these courses, together with the courses required for the major in section 4 below, technical elective courses listed in section 5 below and with the senior design courses listed in section 6 below. Independent study courses generally do not satisfy major requirements. Complete the following: EGS1006C - Introduction to the Engineering Profession (1) EGN1007C - Engineering Concepts and Methods (1) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 48 Total Credits No Rules Engineering Core 0 Total Credits STA 3032 - Probability and Statistics for Engineers Credit Hours: 3 (GEP) Courses Required for the Major 48 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: EGN3211 - Engineering Analysis and Computation (3) COT3100C - Introduction to Discrete Structures (3) COP3502C - Computer Science I (3) COP3503C - Computer Science II (3) COP3330 - Object Oriented Programming (3) EEL3926L - Junior Design (1) EEL3004C - Linear Circuits I (3) EEL3123C - Linear Circuits II (3) EEE3307C - Electronics I (4) EEE3342C - Digital Systems (3) EEL3801C - Computer Organization (4) EEL4742C - Embedded Systems (3) EEL4768 - Computer Architecture (3) EEL4781 - Computer Communication Networks (3) Select Two: Complete at least 2 of the following: EEE4346C - Hardware Security and Trusted Circuit Design (3) EEL4783 - Hardware Description Languages in Digital Systems Design (3) EEL5722C - Field-Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) Design (3) EEL4798 - Massive Storage and Big Data (3) EEE4775 - Real-Time Systems (3) EEE4334 - Computer-Aided Design of VLSI (3) Restricted Electives 15 Total Credits Technical electives are available in the BSCpE program to address specific student interests in a variety of technical areas such as Software Engineering. Students should consult with their academic advisor for the identification of courses that are approved technical electives and the terms when specific courses of this type are to be offered. Technical Electives 15 Total Credits Earn at least 15 credits from the following types of courses: Technical elective courses are to be selected by the student from department approved courses. Capstone Requirements 6 Total Credits Complete the following: EEL4914 - Senior Design I (3) EEL4915L - Senior Design II (3) Grand Total Credits: 71 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida