Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar About Leadership Board of Trustees Leadership Executive Officers Shuly Rubin Schwartz Chancellor and Irving Lehrman Research Professor of American Jewish History Shuly Rubin Schwartz, Irving Lehrman Research Professor of American Jewish History, a groundbreaking scholar of American Jewish history, and a visionary institutional leader, is the eighth chancellor of The Jewish Theological Seminary. She is the first woman to serve in this role since JTS was founded in 1886. Chancellor Schwartz is devoted to building on JTS’s unique strengths as a Jewish institution of higher learning that trains future leaders through deep study—with both head and heart—of Jewish texts, ideas, and history. In JTS’s thriving community, students develop the creative ability to imbue others with the intellectual, cultural, and religious sustenance that our tradition offers, and they enrich every community of which they are a part. Read More Jeffrey Kress Provost and Dr. Bernard Heller Professor of Jewish Education Dr. Kress’s interests include social, emotional, and spiritual development and education. He has written about experiential Jewish education, particularly as it takes place in formal settings. He has also conducted research and professional development on inclusion of learners with disabilities in camp settings. His book Development, Learning, and Community: Educating for Identity in Pluralistic Jewish High Schools (Academic Studies Press, 2012) won a National Jewish Book Award. His latest book is Nurturing Students’ Character: Everyday Teaching Activities for Social and Emotional Learning (Routledge Press, 2020), written with Dr. Maurice Elias. He has also published numerous journal articles and book chapters and regularly presents at academic and professional-development conferences. Dr. Kress has served as the chair of the Network for Research in Jewish Education and was a Dr. Jonathan Woocher Fellow of Lippman Kanfer Foundation for Living Torah. Read More Clare Peeters Vice Chancellor for Administration and Finance As vice chancellor for administration and finance, Clare Peeters leads the business functions of JTS and oversees the areas of human resources, finance, facilities management, information technology, and legal affairs. She advises the chancellor on strategic and business-related initiatives, aligning operational and financial structures and processes with the institution’s priorities and the realization of its mission. Read More Gordon Tucker Vice Chancellor for Religious Life and Engagement As vice chancellor for Religious Life and Engagement, Rabbi Gordon Tucker focuses on enhancing Jewish life at JTS, enriching our study of Judaism with the joy and deep understanding that only lived experience can provide. A leading scholar and interpreter of Conservative Judaism, he also articulates the enduring power of JTS’s compelling approach to Jewish law and Jewish life, while strengthening JTS’s religious leadership through partnerships with organizations in the Conservative Movement and beyond. Read More Keath Blatt General Counsel Keath Blatt is the general counsel of JTS. In this capacity, he is responsible for all legal matters pertaining to the institution and its affiliates in the United States and Israel. Previously, Keath was the in-house counsel for the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) and its charitable foundation. He managed a wide array of legal issues for both organizations and regularly interfaced with various government agencies. Additionally, he worked with private attorneys, government officials, and legal advocates on select legislative and policy initiatives at the state and federal level. He has spoken at legal advocacy conferences in the United States, Israel, and Europe. Read More Chair, Board of Trustees Alan Levine Chair, Board of Trustees Alan Levine is senior counsel and former head of the international law firm of Cooley LLP and a leading trial lawyer in the United States. He joined the JTS Board in 1998 and assumed the role of vice chair in 2009. Mr. Levine has a long and distinguished career of leadership and involvement in the Jewish community in addition to his service at JTS. Read More Board of Trustees JTS Trustees See a full listing of JTS’s distinguished trustees. Read more Deans of JTS Schools Shira D. Epstein Dean, William Davidson School, Assistant Professor of Jewish Education Dr. Shira Epstein is dean of the William Davidson Graduate School of Jewish Education and an assistant professor of Jewish education. She joined the JTS faculty in 2004 and during her time here has taught courses to master’s and executive doctoral students and served as coordinator of the Pedagogy and Teaching Concentration. She has received multiple fellowships, grants, and awards in the field, and has published numerous articles and lectured widely about issues in Jewish education and gender equity. Read More Amy Kalmanofsky Dean, List College and Kekst Graduate School; Blanche and Romie Shapiro Professor, Bible Dr. Amy Kalmanofsky is dean of the Albert A. List College of Jewish Studies and the Gershon Kekst Graduate School, as well as the Blanche and Romie Shapiro Professor of Bible. Previously, Dr. Kalmanofsky was associate vice chancellor, serving as an ambassador for JTS, teaching in communities across North America, building relationships with supporters, and sharing the impact of JTS on the Jewish world. As professor of Bible, she teaches courses on biblical literature, religion, and feminist interpretation of the Bible. In her writing and teaching, Dr. Kalmanofsky combines contemporary ideas and critical methods with traditional text study, teaching students to be careful, creative interpreters of Torah. Read More Jan Uhrbach Acting Dean of the Rabbinical and Cantorial Schools Rabbi Jan Uhrbach brings a passion for prayer to the JTS community. Through her work as founding director of the Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts, she develops and oversees programs and discussions, as well as prayer services on Shabbat and festivals, for the JTS community and the general public. Read More Administration Nancy Abramson Director of H. L. Miller Cantorial School and College of Jewish Music, Senior Lecturer of Hazzanut Cantor Nancy Abramson is director of H. L. Miller Cantorial School and College of Jewish Music of The Jewish Theological Seminary. She trains future hazzanim in prayer, nusah (the sacred music of prayer), and religious leadership, and oversees their expanded development in Jewish education and teaching, pastoral care, and modern Israel. She is helping JTS shape cantorial arts and practices for the 21st century. Read More Julia Andelman Director of Community Engagement As JTS’s director of community engagement, Rabbi Julia Andelman oversees adult learning programs across North America, digital learning, continuing rabbinic education, millennial engagement, and Prozdor. Since joining JTS in 2013, she has initiated livestreaming of JTS’s public lectures, created a video studio for digital learning programs, developed high-level curricula for congregations and other settings, and increased continuing rabbinic education tenfold. Read More Amy S. Feinfeld Registrar and Director of Financial Aid In her job as registar and director of financial aid, Amy Feinfeld plays a dual role at JTS. As registrar, Amy oversees the office that serves as the “front door” for student access to course registration, obtaining transcripts, and handling all other administrative requirements. As director of financial aid, she guides students through the financial aid process and helps them obtain all the sources of aid for which they are eligible. Read More Sara Horowitz Dean of Student Life As dean of student life, Sara Horowitz oversees extracurricular and cocurricular programming for JTS students. In addition to creating programs to build community, she provides a friendly ear and informal guidance to students. Sara has worked in student services at JTS since 1992, when she began as a housing associate. Previously, she worked in the Orientation Office at the University of Maryland in College Park, Maryland. Read More David C. Kraemer Joseph J. and Dora Abbell Librarian and Professor of Talmud and Rabbinics David Kraemer has been part of the JTS community since 1977, when he enrolled at The Graduate School after completing his undergraduate degree at Brandeis University. He began teaching as a graduate student in 1980, receiving his PhD in 1984. Dr. Kraemer’s focus as a professor was on the literary analysis of rabbinic literature, rabbinic ritual, and the social and religious history of Jews in late antiquity. He accepted the position of Librarian in 2004, in which he has played a crucial role in forging policy and expanding the impact of The Library’s world-renowned collections and programs. Read More Bradley Moot Director of Residence Life As the director of Residence Life, Bradley Moot works closely with the student staff in the JTS residence halls. His goal is to encourage students to take on the responsibility of advocating for themselves. Brad discovered his love for student development in 1996 at SUNY Alfred where he was a resident director. Read More Melissa Present Chief Enrollment Officer As chief enrollment officer, Missy Present oversees JTS’s enrollment strategy, leading the admissions department in the recruitment of students, management of prospective student events, and relationships with key partners. She advises the senior administration on all enrollment-related matters. During her tenure as director of enrollment management, Missy increased new student enrollment, expanded institutional partnerships, enhanced recruitment marketing, and implemented a new technology solution that manages the full spectrum of the JTS admissions process. Under her leadership, the enrollment operation was awarded a commendation by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. Read More Brian Smollett Dean, Academic Affairs; Associate Dean, Graduate Studies; Assistant Prof. of Modern Jewish Thought Before coming to JTS as a teacher and administrator, Dr. Smollett taught both Jewish and European history at Binghamton University, Queens College, and Hunter College, where he served as associate director of the Jewish Studies program. At JTS, he served for six years as assistant and then associate dean of List College, where he advised students in the dual-degree programs with Columbia and Barnard, and managed academic policy. Read More Diana Torres-Petrilli Chief Human Resources Officer Diana Torres-Petrilli, chief human resources officer, joined JTS in September 2003. Diana oversees the day-to-day operations and planning for the human resources function. Since joining JTS, Diana has restructured the overall administration of the Human Resources Department to meet the growing/changing needs of the organization. Read More Vice Chancellors Emeriti Marc Gary Executive Vice Chancellor Emeritus Marc Gary served as executive vice chancellor and chief operating officer of JTS from May 2012 to August 2020 and continues to serve as a member of the Board of Trustees. As executive vice chancellor, Mr. Gary was responsible for the day-to-day operations of the institution and supervised all non-academic functions. He served as a member of the Chancellor’s Cabinet and participated in the establishment of strategy and overall direction for JTS. Read More Michael B. Greenbaum Vice Chancellor Emeritus Rabbi Michael B. Greenbaum is vice chancellor emeritus of The Jewish Theological Seminary, where he served, in a career spanning 40 years, as an administrator and member of the faculty. For a quarter-century as JTS vice chancellor and chief operating officer, Rabbi Greenbaum oversaw many significant milestones and accomplishments. Among them, he directed the construction of Kripke Tower and the complex that houses The Library of The Jewish Theological Seminary; provided active counsel to the Ramah camping movement; served on the search committees for two chancellors; and represented JTS on numerous boards, including those of Masorti Olami, The Jewish Museum, the Association of Theological Schools, the Middle States Commission on Higher Education, the United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism, and MERCAZ, as well as the Executive Council of the Rabbinical Assembly. Read More SHARE THIS PAGE PARTNER WITH US TO BUILD THE JEWISH FUTURE DONATE TO JTS RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message