Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Graduate Program Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Graduate Program Our Graduate Program is one of the top programs in the world. Our faculty members are nationally and internationally acknowledged leaders in their fields, and mentor graduate students who engage in research that defines future directions of inquiry. Prospective grad students can find more information here. Prof. Jack Mustard (right) Bethany Ehlmann, Ph.D. '10 look at readings from spectroscopic analyses on rocks collected in Iceland during summer '08. Credit: Richard C. Lewis The Department’s graduate program is focused on the Ph.D. degree and typically has about 60 students (relative to ~20 faculty). DEEPS offers full tuition and health insurance payments with competitive stipends (>$40k/year) for all admitted Ph.D. students. Highly selective fellowships are also available for students with exceptional academic records. The on-line application form is due January 15th, and is available on-line via the Graduate School website. Students are advised to contact faculty members about their research interests before applying. GRE scores are not required. DEEPS graduate students engage in original research on the Earth, its environment, and the solar system. We aim to train the next generation of leaders in research, technology, and academia. Teaching experience is therefore a fundamental part of graduate training. All Ph.D. candidates serve as Teaching Assistants for at least one semester, and may serve several semesters depending on their interest and need. Our graduate students are also leaders in their community, engaging in a variety of outreach activities such as teaching science in the Providence public schools through Brown's DEEPSSTEP program. The graduates of the Ph.D. program have gone on to leadership positions in private companies, government agencies and at top-level universities. Check out this list of resources put together by Lavontria Miche Aaron (Ph.D. candidate in earth & planetary sciences at Johns Hopkins Univ) for information on fellowships, scholarships, internships, free tutoring and more. Catch up with some of the research our graduate students are doing! People Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Research For Prospective Students Advisors Student Representatives Handbook Courses Research Lectures and Colloquia Alumni Diversity and Inclusion Outreach Print this Page Share this Page Stay Connected with DEEPS at Brown University Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Brown University Box 1846 324 Brook Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3339 [email protected] Calendar Jun 23 9:00am Dissertation Defense: Sarah McGrath Sep 7 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Department Resources Computing Guide