Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Electrical Engineering (BSEE) – Communication and Signal Processing Track Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Electrical & Computer Engr In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Admission Requirements Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must be in good academic standing and must have a "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311C, MAC 2312, PHY 2048C, and CHS 1440 or CHM 2045C. Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must complete a change of major in the term of completion of the final pending prerequisite course(s) listed above. Degree Requirements Students in the Electrical Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Electrical Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Electrical Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Electrical Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Aerodynamics Engineer Aeronautical Engineering Professor Antenna Engineer Circuit Design Engineer Civil Engineering Professor Computer Hardware Designer Computer Hardware Engineer Electrical Design Engineer Electrical Engineering Professor Electronic Design Automation Engineer Electronic Engineer Electronics Engineering Professor Engineering Design Manager Engineering Manager Engineering Research Manager Flight Systems Test Engineer Industrial Engineering Professor Mechanical Engineering Director Process Engineering Manager Telecommunication Engineer Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Bachelors Electrical Engineering (BSEE) - Communication and Signal Processing Track University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Admission Requirements Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must be in good academic standing and must have a "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311C, MAC 2312, PHY 2048C, and CHS 1440 or CHM 2045C. Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must complete a change of major in the term of completion of the final pending prerequisite course(s) listed above. Degree Requirements Students in the Electrical Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Electrical Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Electrical Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Electrical Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 2 Total Credits Complete all of the following The College of Engineering & Computer Science requires all engineering students to achieve a minimum 2.250 GPA in completing these courses, together with the courses required for the major, technical elective courses, and with the senior design courses. Independent study courses generally do not satisfy major requirements. Complete the following: EGS1006C - Introduction to the Engineering Profession (1) EGN1007C - Engineering Concepts and Methods (1) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 53 Total Credits No Rules Courses Required for the Engineering Core 3 Total Credits Earn at least 3 credits from the following: STA3032 - Probability and Statistics for Engineers (3) PHY3101 - General Physics Using Calculus III (3) Courses Required for the Major 50 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: EGN3211 - Engineering Analysis and Computation (3) EEL3021 - Introduction to Applied Randomness for Engineers (3) EEL3004C - Linear Circuits I (3) EEL3123C - Linear Circuits II (3) EEE3307C - Electronics I (4) EEE3342C - Digital Systems (3) EEL3801C - Computer Organization (4) EEL3926L - Junior Design (1) EEL3552C - Signal Analysis and Analog Communication (4) EEL4750 - Digital Signal Processing Fundamentals (3) EEL4515C - Fundamentals of Digital Communication (4) EEL4742C - Embedded Systems (3) Junior Level Electives Earn at least 6 credits from the following: EEL3470 - Electromagnetic Fields (3) EEL3657 - Linear Control Systems (3) EEE3350 - Semiconductor Devices (3) Senior Level Electives Earn at least 6 credits from the following: EEL4140C - Analog Filter Design (4) EEL4518 - Satellite Communications (3) EEL4781 - Computer Communication Networks (3) EEL4815 - Current Topics in Machine Learning I (3) EEE5542 - Random Processes I (3) EEE5557 - Introduction to Radar Systems (3) EEL5432 - Satellite Remote Sensing (3) EEL5780 - Wireless Networks (3) EEL5820 - Image Processing (3) EEL5268 - Communications and Networking for Smart Grid (3) EEL5582 - Fundamentals of Wireless Communications (3) Restricted Electives 10 Total Credits Technical electives are available in the BSEE program to address specific student interests in a variety of technical areas. Students should consult their academic advisor for the identification of courses that are approved technical electives and the terms when specific courses of this type are to be offered. Technical Electives 10 Total Credits Earn at least 10 credits from the following types of courses: Technical elective courses are to be selected by the student from department approved courses. Capstone Requirements 6 Total Credits Complete the following: EEL4914 - Senior Design I (3) EEL4915L - Senior Design II (3) Grand Total Credits: 71 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida