Skip to content Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Find People Events Global Health Donate Search About Us About Us Explore VP&S Message from the Dean VP&S History Celebrating the Leadership of Lee Goldman Facts & Statistics 2021 State of the School Explore VP&S Leadership and Administration Campus Resources and Facilities Events Community Programs Contact Us Education Education Academic Programs Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Student Resources Office of Innovation in Health Professions Education Academic Programs MD Program MD Dual Degrees and Special Programs Program in Genetic Counseling Programs in Human Nutrition Programs in Occupational Therapy Programs in Physical Therapy PhDs in Biomedical Sciences Additional Master's Degree Programs Additional Educational Opportunities MD Program Join our MD program to become a physician with compassion, a sense of self, and true grit in all medical pursuits. Explore Our Program Research Research Office for Research Areas of Research Research Faculty Honors and Awards For Researchers For Researchers Core and Shared Facilities Research Resources Funding Areas of Research VP&S continues to be a world leader across the entire spectrum of basic science, translational, and clinical research Learn About Our Research Patient Care Departments & Centers Departments & Centers Affiliated Hospitals and Institutions Basic Science Departments Centers and Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Faculty Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Our mission is to provide world-class patient care, foster innovative research, and train the next generation of leaders in medicine. View Clinical Departments and Divisions You are here Home > Education > Academic Programs > MD Program > Admissions Academic Programs MD Program About the Curriculum About the MD Program Admissions Apply FAQs Location MD Financial Aid Student Profiles MD Curriculum Columbia-Bassett Track Curricular Threads Visiting Student Program MD Alumni Association Brown Scholars Primary Care Program Guidelines for Promoting an Anti-Bias and Inclusive Curriculum VP&S Equity and Justice Fellowship MD Dual Degrees and Special Programs Program in Genetic Counseling Programs in Human Nutrition Programs in Occupational Therapy Programs in Physical Therapy PhDs in Biomedical Sciences Additional Master's Degree Programs Additional Educational Opportunities Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Student Resources Office of Innovation in Health Professions Education Admissions Message from the Dean: Anne Armstrong-Coben, MD Senior Associate Dean for Admissions We realize how hard you have worked and how exciting, yet daunting, the process of applying to medical school can be. We are committed to considering each applicant in a fair and personal manner. Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is honored that you are interested in joining our community. VP&S is a special place. People- our students, faculty, staff, and patients - are our strength. We think we are a place where all students will thrive no matter what their interests. We are a world-class research university while also providing the best medical care to diverse patient populations. The faculty truly loves students, are invested in their education, and students leave here with lifelong mentors. Living and learning in New York City is an opportunity that will contribute to your journey from student to doctor in unmeasurable ways. For students interested in community service and service-learning, the local communities of Washington Heights, Inwood, and Harlem, as well as the greater NYC area, are rich with possibilities. We have extensive global health possibilities that have been life-changing for our students. We also prioritize balance in life. The VP&S Club provides the opportunity to continue your extracurricular passions and to find new ones. We look forward to receiving your application if you envision VP&S as the next step in your personal and professional journey. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About VP&S Careers Education Research Administration Inside VP&S Columbia University Irving Medical Center Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Back to top