Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Christian Life Community Home Faith Communities Catholic Christian Life Community CLC's mission is to bring students together to engage in intentional conversations, explore tools of Ignatian Spirituality, and form meaningful relationships. Weekly small groups allow peers to open up in a supportive space about important topics such as spirituality as college students. Reflection Meet weekly with a small group of your grade-level peers to build relationships and reflect on important topics like spirituality, friendship, and values on a college campus. Sign-Up for CLC Community All CLC leaders and members are invited to many social events and prayer gatherings throughout the year, including CLC art night, Thanksgiving dinner, barbecue, and more. Sign-Up for CLC Spirituality As a Christian organization, CLC is open to students of all spiritual backgrounds, or lack thereof. In addition to Ignatian prayer in meetings and the discussion of religious topics, all CLC members and friends are invited to attend religious services such as Mass and Taize Prayer. Sign-Up for CLC Fellowship Foster deep and meaningful friendships with your group as you engage in important, weekly dialogue throughout your time at BC. Since these bonds are so strong, most groups stay together all four years. Sign-Up for CLC Play Leadership After participating in a group. all CLC members are invited to apply to co-lead the following year. Leaders develop their prayer life, deepend listening skills, foster community, and open dialogue. Sign-Up for CLC Testimonials "CLC was the stepping stone for me in overcoming my fears and anxieties of not thinking I could ever find community at BC. It helped me realize that I am capable of doing good, healthy, and positivie things for myself. It helped me realize that I was capable of finding my way here at BC." "CLC has been the single most influential religious involvement I've had in the first 18+ years of my life. Having a community to celebrate Mass with and push each other to grow with God has given me motivation to expand my faith." "I look forward to CLC every week because I love meeting with a group of sincere, compassionate BC students in a space where we reflect on our experiences and grow in faith (and friendships) together!" "CLC was the biggest reason why I have a large network of close friends who share my beliefs." "I love my CLC group because they genuinely care about me as a person. Going to CLC is always one of the highlights of my week!" "I joined CLC because I wanted to find a community that is dedicated to meaningful dialogue about the intersection of faith and our identity, and from these conversations grow in gratitude for the opportunity to be vulnerable, the time shared, and friendships made." "CLC is a welcoming environment where the leaders and other members meet me where I am and are extraordinary conversation partners. We all really care for each other and are eager to intentionally cheer one another on through our highs and lows.." Registration Contact Spiritual Resources Learning Outcomes General registration is open through Sept. 19. There is no application process, but all new members must register in order to be placed in a group. If you are interested in joining a group after Sept. 19, please email cura@bc.edu Sign up for CLC Interested in joining an alumni group? Contact Danielle Scraramella. Christine Cichello Campus Minister for CLC (617) 552-3475 History of CLC CLC Northeast Young Adult CLC (great resource for CLC Leaders!) World CLC International CLC - USA National Ignatian Spirituality After participating in the Christian Life Community, students will be able to: Connect listening skills to appreciating silence in conversations and the need for communal discernment. Expand the love and care they experience in their relationships in CLC to behavior that is more inclusive and loving to others outisde of CLC. Relate prayer practices involving scripture and the imagination to lived experiences. Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry McElroy 233 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3475 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College