Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell University of Washington Bothell Future Students Admissions Application Dates & Deadlines Campus Visit Degree Programs For Parents Orientation First Year Students Graduate International Post-Baccalaureate Returning Transfer Resources Financial Aid Food Services Housing Transportation Tuition I want to... Attend Orientation Request Information Visit UW Bothell Apply to UW Bothell » Current Students Resources Campus Safety Canvas Catalyst Financial Aid and Scholarships Food Services Registration Time Schedule Tuition Academics Academic Calendar Community-Based Learning Degrees Quantitative Skills Center Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Writing and Communication Center Student Affairs Careers Counseling Center for International Education DACA Resources Disability Resources Veterans Student Parents ASUWB Clubs and Organizations Orientation Recreation Student Affairs My UW » Schools & Programs Academic Affairs Faculty Support Institutional Research & Analysis Division of Academic Affairs Sponsored Research Schools & Programs Business Educational Studies Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Nursing & Health Studies Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) First Year & Pre-Major Program Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Safety Directory General Faculty Organization (GFO) General Staff Organization (GSO) IT MyUW Campus Services Canvas Food Service Room Reservations Commuter Services UW Alert Work Request Working at UW Bothell Accessibility Benefits Human Resources Integrated Service Center Payroll Training and Development Work/Life Balance How do I ... Apply for a Job Contact Campus Safety Find University Forms Get a Husky Card Plan an Event Alumni & Donors Get Involved Advancement and External Relations Alumni Council Distinguished Alumni Award Give to UW Bothell Update your Contact Information UW Alumni Association Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Alumni News Alumni Events Annual Husky 5K Bothell Block Party UW Bothell News UW Bothell Magazine Resources Alumni Services Career Center FAQ's Lifelong Learning UW Bothell Advisory Board How do I ... Find Classmates Get my Transcript Get Tickets to Husky Sports What are you Doing now? Give to UW Bothell » Discover UW Bothell Getting to Campus Building Hours Campus Map Directions Parking Transportation About UW Bothell About Leadership Chancellor Kristin Esterberg Fast Facts Mission, Vision & Core Values News & Events 2010-2020 Annual Impact Report Construction Calendar Emergency Information News Community Community Engagement Campus Tours Employers Visitors Parents and Family Home Organizational Excellence & Human Resources Staff Work & Life Balance Organizational Excellence & Human Resources Future Employment OE/HR Events Staff New Staff Orientations Benefits Learning & Development OE/HR SharePoint Student HuskyHires ASE Pay Scales Faculty Benefits Employment Lecturer general functions and responsibilities New Faculty Policies Faculty SharePoint Faculty resources Holistic Well-Being Workday Support Work & Life Balance Ways to Balance Work and Life Carelink UW CareLink offers a wide range of services that can help you manage through the different stages of life, develop a healthy lifestyle, create a quality work environment, and save time by providing easy access to trusted experts, including counselors, attorneys, financial advisors, and child and adult/elder care consultants. Call toll-free: 1-866-598-3978 (TTY: 1-877-334-0489). Master's-level counselors are available to take your call 24/7. For financial, legal, and child and adult/elder care services you will be referred to the appropriate professional. Prefer to seek help online? Visit the APS HelpLink portal (use "UW" as the company code to log in). Family Resources The Work/Life office supports University faculty, staff and students in meeting their work and family needs through consultation and referral to campus and community resources. We can help with information and material about child care, elder care, flexible work options and other issues that impact individuals at any stage of their life cycle. Parents Please go to our parent resource page for information on lactation stations, changing stations and childcare resources. Additional information is available on the University of Washington's Family Resources website. Health and Wellness Sports and Recreation The Recreation program at UW Bothell has been growing rapidly over the past two years. With the introduction of the Sports and Recreation Complex and the Activities Recreation Center (ARC), program offerings have exploded! UWB Faculty and Staff are able to purchase a $60 quarterly Rec Pass that allows them to use the Fitness Center. The WholeU The Whole U fosters community, shares ways to stay healthy, and promotes the great benefits and services available to UW faculty and staff. This program is managed by a host of ambassadors from the Seattle, Bothell, and Tacoma campuses. If you have ideas or feedback that you would like to share, please contact your UW Bothell Ambassador or click here to share your ideas directly with the WholeU. University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Organizational Excellence & Human Resources Box 358526 19128 112th Ave. NE., Suite 109 Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.5348 TDD: Email: uwboehr@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us