Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Risk Management Emergency Management & Fire Safety Emergency Management & Fire Safety Emergency Management Fire Safety Environmental Health & Safety Environmental Health & Safety Occupational Safety Occupational Health Research & Education Safety Training Services International & Domestic Travel International & Domestic Travel Faculty Staff Travel Health, Safety, & Emergencies International Health & Safety Resources Student Resources Travel to a Restricted Region Risk & Insurance Risk & Insurance Incident Reporting Third Party Event Insurance Information Insurance Programs Protection of Minors Program Strategic Risk Assessment Travel University Driving Programs Resources Resources About Event Safety Topics (A-Z) Training ☰ Office of Risk Management ORM Risk & Insurance University Driving Programs University Driving Programs If you have been asked to drive a University Vehicle or a SCUV in the scope of business for SMU, you will first need to be authorized through the Office of Risk Management. University Motor Vehicles SMU Policy 11. 5 Fleet Safety, applies to all employees, prospective employees, and students who operate, or will operate, vehicles owned, leased, or loaned to the University (thus, University Vehicles), which are covered by University insurance. This includes vehicles that are rented for University business. If you have been asked to drive a University Vehicle in the scope of business for SMU, you will first need to be authorized through the Office of Risk Management. This authorization involves two components: Qualification and Training. Driver Qualifications All drivers of SMU University Vehicles must meet the following minimum qualifications: Be 18 years of age or older Hold a valid and current U.S. driver's license Complete Engaged Driving Training Have a CLEAR Motor Vehicle Record (MVR) report (required annually) Training Drivers must successfully complete Engaged Driving, a 1-hour training class hosted by the Office of Risk Management. This training is required every 3 years. For more information visit the training calendar and registration form. Sub-Compact Utility Vehicles (SCUV) Many departments across campus are utilizing Sub-Compact Utility Vehicles (SCUVs) to quickly maneuver around campus. Vehicles such as Gators, Metros, Club Cars, Toros, etc. are relatively inexpensive and take much less room to park than conventional vehicles. While the increased convenience may be time-saving, the SCUVs bring a new risk to occupants, pedestrians, and persons with disabilities. In addition, the cost to repair damage to hardscape and turf areas is considerable. Therefore, to reduce risk and unnecessary cost, the following procedures are to be followed. SCUV Procedures SCUV Driver Qualifications All drivers of SMU University Vehicles must meet the following minimum qualifications: Be 18 years of age or older Hold a valid and current U.S. driver's license Complete Engaged Driving Training Have a CLEAR Motor Vehicle Record (MVR) report (required annually) Training Drivers must successfully complete Engaged Driving, a 1-hour training class hosted by the Office of Risk Management. This training is required every 3 years. For more information visit the training calendar and registration form. Fleet Safety Policy 11.5 SCUV Policy 11.6 SCUV Driving Map SCUV Registration Form Risk & Insurance Incident Reporting Third Party Event Insurance Information Insurance Programs Protection of Minors Program Strategic Risk Assessment Travel University Driving Programs Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share