Skip Navigation menu search Sign-ons College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Veterinary Medicine More Iowa Pork Industry Center About IPIC Meet the IPIC Team Iowa Swine Day Webinars Home News Archives About IPIC Meet the IPIC Team Animal Welfare/Handling Breeding and Reproduction Diseases and Health Economics and Marketing Employee Training and Managing Environment Facilities Niche Production Nutrition Pork Quality/Safety Swine Exhibition and Youth Projects Swine Feed Efficiency menu IPIC Homepage Animal Welfare/Handling Breeding and Reproduction Diseases and Health Economics and Marketing Employee Training and Managing Environment Facilities Niche Production Nutrition Pork Quality/Safety Swine Exhibition and Youth Projects Swine Feed Efficiency Matie George is looking forward to working with producers and others in Iowa’s pork industry, and said her recent experience provided a solid background for her new role with Iowa Pork Industry Center at Iowa State University. As an education extension specialist, she will be responsible for creating educational content from a variety of programming and research efforts for producers. Iowa State University students majoring in animal science and interested in learning more about swine have a new option. The ISU animal science department now offers a swine management certificate option and students can enroll at no cost. For a dozen years, Iowa State University has been involved with Swine Science Online, a program offering education and training for future pork industry professionals. Billed as the first-ever undergraduate program of its kind when it began in 2010, it connects students and instructors throughout the United States through distance education. Laura Greiner, assistant professor in animal science, instructs two courses: Basic Swine Science, and Swine Nursery & Finishing Management. Our next PQA Advisor training is set for June 29, the day before Iowa Swine Day. This will be the first session for the new PQA version 5 program and returns to an in-person setting at the Hansen Ag Student Learning Center in Ames. More details on our PQA page. A new fact sheet from Iowa Pork Industry Center, Feed Additives to Mitigate the Risk of Virus-contaminated Feed, focuses on three research papers that evaluated compounds to mitigate virus-contaminated feed. Iowa State University extension swine specialist Mark Storlie is one of the authors. Animal growth resources: Due to unique circumstances that have disrupted the flow of market hogs to packing plants for harvest, the IPIC team hosted a webinar to discuss nutritional strategies to alter market hog growth on April 21, 2020. Updated information from university and commercial research projects was presented during a second webinar on May 28, 2020. Click on the below videos if you missed them or would like to watch them again. Also, we have developed additional supportive resources (below the video) that were referenced in the first webinar that can be downloaded. As these documents are updated, the link will remain the same. Sign up for regular email updates. (1:05:24) Dealing with stress: Serious financial and other stresses continue to impact and affect those in our agricultural community. Here are links to some resources to help deal with a variety of stress concerns and grief. The Iowa Concern Hotline is always available at 800-447-1985, iowaconcern@iastate.edu and at https://www.extension.iastate.edu/iowaconcern/ What is the risk of an FAD, like African Swine Fever, to the U.S. swine industry? How would the U.S. respond to an FAD outbreak? Learn more about Secure Pork Supply assistance and workshops. We've put together a compilation of information, steps to take on your farm, and resources to help you get started in preparing and protecting your farm from FADs. Check out our online FAD Preparation Guide here. News Archives Check out African Swine Fever Current publications IPIC programs and projects Pig Survivability PQA Plus information Presentations Software and other decision tools ISU links Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering Animal Science Economics ISU Extension and Outreach Veterinary Diagnostic and Production Animal Medicine Partner links Connect with IPIC Questions? Contact Sherry Hoyer Iowa Pork Industry Center, 109 Kildee Hall, 806 Stange Rd., Iowa State University, Ames, IA 50011-1178, ipic@iastate.edu, Phone: 515-294-4103, Fax: 515-294-5698. Copyright © 1995- , Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. | Policies | State & National Extension Partners | Loading...