COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Music Theatre, Major MajorMusic Theatre All Programs College of Fine Arts Music Theatre Wichita State's award-winning Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) music theatre program will equip you with a firm foundation of knowledge and practical skills for a successful career on the stage and beyond. You'll enjoy personalized training with acclaimed professionals and virtually countless opportunities to showcase your talent on campus and throughout Kansas' center of arts and culture. Learn how music theatre is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Fine Arts, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. Once you're admitted to WSU, you'll need to schedule an audition through the School of Performing Arts. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Music theatre alumnus shines in 'Hamilton' Broadway tour Julius Thomas III knew that the spotlight was always going to be bright. Where others feel pressure, he feels prosperity. A WSU alumnus since 2005, Julius graduated with a Bachelor of Fine Arts in Music Theatre. Featured in many shows and productions, Julius has established himself as a proficient actor and performer with appearances in ABC's “Modern Family,” “Sesame Street” and several other notable television series. Most recently, Julius toured cross country with the Broadway hit show “Hamilton: The Musical.” Julius is a prime example of turning dreams into reality, entertaining millions of people the Wheatshocker way. Curriculum As a BFA in music theatre major, you'll complete 84 credit hours of musical theatre courses to build your skill set in theatre, dance, music and performance. View the curriculum Careers From local productions to Broadway, a degree in musical theatre from Wichita State's College of Fine Arts equips students with the skills, connections and confidence for careers in TV, film and the stage. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Music Music (Minor) Dance Dance (Minor) Theatre 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©