By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Research In this Section Research Clusters Research Syracuse University is a top-tier international research university, where academic inquiry spans and unites a full range of disciplines. Faculty and students collaborate to produce research, scholarship and creative work that advances our fundamental understanding of issues facing society and innovative solutions that have an impact at the community, state, national and global level. Research at Syracuse University impacts individuals, communities and society, while creating opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students to chart their own course through mentored and independent research experiences. Whether advancing fundamental understanding of the world around us, innovating to address pressing global needs or fostering curiosity-driven inquiry, Syracuse University research goes beyond what’s known to shape what’s possible. Office of Research The Office of Research is the central hub for research support at Syracuse University, facilitating excellence in research, scholarship, innovation and creative activity that addresses emerging opportunities and societal needs. This support extends to faculty, staff, students and external partners. The Office of Research oversees: Centers and Institutes The University is home to several dozen centers and institutes that bring together faculty from different disciplines to collaborate, innovate and drive breakthroughs that advance knowledge, discovery and understanding. Proposal Support Services Supports Syracuse University’s proposal, research and faculty development efforts to enhance research capacity and enable ambitious, multidisciplinary projects. Proposal Support Services also administers the University’s internal grant programs , including CUSE Grants , Small Equipment Grants and the Postdoctoral Scholars Program . Research Integrity and Protections Provides administrative services to facilitate research and ensure compliance with applicable federal regulations, laws and University policies. Sponsored Programs Assists all members of the University community submitting proposals for external support of research, creative, instructional and service activities. The SOURCE (Syracuse Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement) The SOURCE’s mission is to foster and support diverse undergraduate participation in faculty-guided scholarly research and creative inquiry. Student participants progress through initial training in research or other creative skills, to designing and revising the structure of their projects, and culminating in research, creative and professional contributions that are original and timely. Technology Transfer Works with Syracuse University faculty, researchers, students and staff to seek patents, copyrights or trademarks to protect their intellectual property and Syracuse University’s interests in them, as well as ensuring compliance around inventions resulting from government-funded research. Facilitates licensing or sale of intellectual property by connecting our inventors and creators with potential partners or paths to entrepreneurship. Research Clusters Research clusters are created by hiring multiple scholars into at least two schools/colleges in related areas, based on shared, multidisciplinary or interdisciplinary research interests. Cluster hires and academic cluster creation serve to align the University’s research to extramural funding trends, strengthen research activity, enhance faculty diversity and develop opportunities for student research and learning that responds to societal challenges. Research Computing Research computing at Syracuse University is a collaborative effort between the campus research community and technology groups from across campus. The technology groups include both distributed information technology teams as well as support from Information Technology Services (ITS) which provides research computing infrastructure resources. Available resources include High Throughput Computing (HTC), virtual private cloud (AVHE), virtual private cloud (Crush), and GPU-based computing (SUrge). Syracuse University Libraries Research Guides Discover research tools, explore the research process and locate helpful resources for a wide variety of academic topics and specific courses, created by Syracuse University’s librarians. SURFACE Repository SURFACE, the Syracuse University Research Facility and Collaborative Environment, is a full-text, multimedia online database that provides open access to the extensive and diverse array of scholarly, professional, scientific and creative output produced at Syracuse University. Featured Stories The Lava Makers In a decade-long collaboration of art and science, the Syracuse University Lava Project has fired up researchers and creatives to explore the beauty and characteristics of magma. The Historic Detection of Gravitational Waves Long ago and far away, there were two black holes—each 100 miles in diameter, with a mass 30 times that of the sun—that began circling one another in an epic cosmic dance. BioInspired Institute Awarded NSF Grants to Study Material and Living Systems Funding signals “world-class research with real-world impact,” says Director M. Lisa Manning. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy