Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Academics Capstone Workshops Search Capstone Workshops Exploring New Transaction Infrastructure in Africa Powered by Blockchain Technologies You are here Home Academics Capstone Workshops Search Capstone Workshops Few disruptive technologies have seized the world’s attention like blockchain. Blockchain can revolutionize the transfer of value like the internet revolutionized the transfer of information. The ten largest companies in the world are exploring blockchain, such as China National Petroleum and Berkshire Hathaway, as are most of the Fortune 500. Countless startups are cropping up around the technology. Still, despite the hype, few people know what blockchain actually is and how it works. This paper explored the utility and potential of blockchain technologies for AfricInvest, a private equity firm based in Tunisia that invests predominantly in growing and midsize companies in Africa. The report is composed of six sections. First is an introductory chapter on blockchain and its key features. Second, an analysis of micro and macroeconomic country data to provide context for the current state of the financial sector in Africa. Third, several case studies explore how blockchain has been used by retail banks, insurance companies, and start-ups. Fourth is a comparative analysis of the case studies, illustrating conditions for successful blockchain implementation such as infrastructure, policies, and consumer behaviors. Fifth, a conclusion that blockchain has been and can continue to be successfully replicated in the African financial market and that it can be successfully utilized by AfricInvest’s portfolio companies. Sixth, a roadmap of steps to successfully implement blockchain technology as well as recommendations for how AfricInvest and its portfolio companies can potentially leverage blockchain in the future. Client(s) AfricInvest Semester Spring 2019 Share This Alumni Perspective: Adam Scher Video of Alumni Perspective: Adam Scher Alumni Spotlight As a leader, you're not just trying to develop more followers, you’re trying to empower the people around you. Adam Scher MPA 13 Infantry Officer U.S. Army Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216