Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Africana Studies Ph.D. school Graduate School department Africana Studies Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The Ph.D. program in Africana Studies provides a firm base for graduate students to create new and innovative knowledge within the discipline as well as develop cutting-edge scholarship that contributes to the broader academy and public life. The Department of Africana Studies at Brown University is the intellectual center for faculty and students interested in the critical study of the artistic, cultural, historical, literary and theoretical expressions of the peoples and cultures of Africa and the African Diaspora. The department has one of the leading faculties in the discipline. Members of the faculty have received many prestigious honors and awards such as the Gish Award, the Guggenheim Fellowship and the MacArthur Fellowship, in addition to successfully competing for fellowships and grants from the Ford Foundation, the Fulbright Program, the Woodrow Wilson Foundation, the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Science Foundation. The Ph.D. program in Africana Studies provides a firm base for graduate students to create new and innovative knowledge within the discipline as well as develop cutting-edge scholarship that contributes to the broader academy and public life. Graduate students in the program receive rigorous training in the discipline of Africana Studies and the theories and methods of interdisciplinary work, with an acute focus on race, class, gender, and sexuality, while being critically conversant with the methods and theories of other academic disciplines. The goal of the program is to prepare students to become skilled and informed scholars and educators poised to make significant contributions to academic and nonacademic communities and initiate cultural and social policies with humanitarian objectives informed by critical thinking and global perspectives on social and human development. The department is the home of the C.L.R. James Journal, the official journal of the Caribbean Philosophy Association, and Rites and Reason Theatre, a forum for arts and ideas that brings together artists and scholars to collaborate on modes of expression in communicating new thoughts and ideas about the world and human existence. The department's Trilateral Reconnection Project offers graduate students the opportunity to research and study at the University of Cape Town, South Africa and the University of the West Indies, Mona. Africana Studies graduate students work closely with faculty in a number of Brown University departments including American Studies, Anthropology, Comparative Literature, English, History, and Modern Culture and Media and are able to participate in the exchange scholar program that enables Brown graduate students to take courses in the graduate schools of other participating institutions, including the University of California at Berkeley, the University of Chicago, Columbia University, Cornell University, Harvard University, MIT, Princeton University, Stanford University, and Yale University. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not Required GRE General: Not Required Writing Sample: Required (20–25 pages) Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 15, 2021 Completion Requirements The Africana Studies graduate program is organized around three areas of emphasis: 1) History, Politics, and Theory focuses on the institutional, theoretical, and material expressions of Africana culture, experience, and thought; 2) Literary, Expressive and Performance Cultures focuses on the critical study of visual culture, performance, and the literary arts that critique the contributions and (self) representations of people of African descent in global and contested societies; 3) Feminism, Gender, and Sexuality focuses on the cultural, ideological, political, and theoretical implications of feminist consciousness, practices, and theories; constructions of gender; and critical understandings and analyses of sexuality throughout the Africana world. Within these three areas, Africana Studies graduate students are able to explore the breadth and depth of the discipline while developing capacity and competence in distinct areas of scholarship. The Ph.D. in Africana Studies requires the successful completion of no fewer than 12 courses, of which six must be in the student's chosen area of research emphasis and four in another secondary area of emphasis. Students entering the program with a master's degree may petition the graduate program for advanced standing after one year of residency in the program. All doctoral students must take: AFRI 2001: Seminar in Theories, Politics, and Histories; AFRI 2002: Seminar in Literary, Expressive, and Performance Cultures; AFRI 2003: Seminar in Feminism, Gender, and Sexuality; AFRI 2101: Methods in Africana Studies; and AFRI 2102: Professionalization Seminar. Students must demonstrate competency in one of the following languages: French, German, Portuguese, Spanish, or another language relevant to their area of scholarly interest. As teaching is a vital part of graduate training, students are also required to serve as teaching assistants for at least two semesters. In addition, all doctoral students must successfully complete a qualifying examination in their chosen field of emphasis and additional examinations in secondary field of research and teaching competence, an oral examination of the dissertation proposal, and an oral defense of the dissertation. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Noliwe Rooks noliwe_rooks@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Matthew Guterl matthew_guterl@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Africana Studies Mailing Address Brown University Box 1904 matthew_guterl@brown.edu 401-863-3137 Visit the Department of Africana Studies Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Africana Studies Open details for Africana Studies Bookmark this Page