Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Research : Overview of Research at UT Austin Overview of Research at UT Austin Quick Links Office of the Vice President for Research, Scholarship and Creative Endeavors UT Research Showcase Office of Industry Engagement Office of Sponsored Projects Office of Research Support Office of Technology Commercialization The University of Texas at Austin is proud to be one of the world's leading research universities. Our students and faculty are encouraged to explore and discover in the arts, humanities and sciences — and across disciplinary boundaries. UT researchers work to fight and treat diseases, devise solutions to global problems, address critically important social issues and improve the human condition in myriad ways. Our world-class resources include extensive grant and funding opportunities, broad support networks dedicated to turning ideas into products and companies, and state-of-the-art labs, studios and facilities. We're proud to support our inspiring community of researchers — and are dedicated to sharing their work with the world. Research Showcase View the latest research across campus — from freshmen to global experts — in 18 schools and colleges. Learn more Funding Sources UT Austin offers a broad mix of fellowships, grants, awards, and limited submission funding opportunities to researchers. Learn more Core Facilities We're committed to providing our research community with access to the latest equipment and technology. Learn more Postdoctoral Resources The Postdoctoral Office supports incoming, current and international postdocs with a variety of helpful resources, including information on appointment procedures, benefits, and more. Learn more Research Recognition Our faculty is internationally distinguished and includes winners of the Nobel Prize, Pulitzer Prize, National Medal of Science, Wolf Prize, and countless other awards. Learn more Technology Commercialization Explore our technology commercialization efforts and learn how we're helping to move groundbreaking discoveries and inventions from the lab to the marketplace. Learn more Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022