Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News > Featured News Stories > 2022 > Getting to know … Patience Saaka, MPH ’22 News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift Getting to know … Patience Saaka, MPH ’22 Patience Saaka May 3, 2022—Patience Saaka is a physician from Ghana with a passion for promoting equity in health care and ending gender-based violence. In a recent interview, she described the new digital venture she hopes to focus on after she graduates from Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health in May—a system to help rural providers in Ghana access blood products—and the book that kicked off her lifelong love of science. I grew up in northern Ghana, mostly in Damongo and Tamale. They were very communal, the kind of places where you could run to your neighbor’s house for salt when you ran out, or to find someone to play with. But there were also aspects that were very difficult. We had a small community clinic in Damongo, run by a nurse who couldn’t always be there. At that time, it was common to know someone who had fallen ill and gone to the clinic, but never came home. Both of my parents were teachers. Any time my father traveled, he came back with a book. There was one I loved called 365 Fantastic Facts. I spent a lot of time reading it and became fascinated by science. I also had a teacher who played a key role in my love for science and my desire to learn. When I was about eight years old, he told me about the great female scientist Marie Curie, who discovered radioactivity. As I learned more about her, I thought I wanted to be like her when I grew up, to do something that brings some change to the world. After my medical training, I went to work at a hospital in a rural mining town in Ghana. Soon, I started seeing victims of sexual violence in my emergency room. One I can’t forget was a 12-year-old girl who had been brought in, bleeding. I remember going into the examining room and finding this tiny little girl. Later, I learned that her rapist had been released from police custody and had not been charged because he was very well connected. Meanwhile, this young lady was going to have to live with the trauma of what he’d done to her. I learned that sexual violence is very common in mining communities where there are large numbers of young men coming in to work. Young women are out on the streets and mining sites working as petty traders [selling food, water, and other convenience items] to help support their families, and this puts them in a vulnerable position. I started speaking with these girls and doing what I could to help. I recruited some psychologist colleagues to offer counseling, and was able to help some of the girls who had gotten pregnant and had to drop out of school find vocational placements, and supported others to go back to school after they had their babies. I’ve always wanted to fix health systems, to narrow the gaps in access to care in places like the community where I grew up. When I was starting my residency training in radiology, I realized that very few people could afford advanced imaging. In Ghana, x-rays are covered by national health insurance, but there’s only so much they can diagnose. I decided to come to the Harvard Chan School to learn more about what can be done about these kinds of disparities. It’s been inspiring to hear from people like Richard Cash, whose work on oral rehydration therapy for patients with diarrheal diseases saves thousands of lives every year. It’s such a basic treatment, yet it makes an incredible difference. Change takes time, and you probably won’t get there by just waiting for the big thing to happen. You start small and grow. For my Rose Service Learning Fellowship project, I’ve been working with women in the town of Bolgatanga, Ghana. In this part of the country, widowhood rites are very common. They are practiced in some form across Ghana, but here women who lose their husbands are typically confined in a room with nothing on but leaves around their waist for several days. Their hair is brutally shaved, sometimes with broken glass or unsanitary razors, leading to injuries and infections. They are given little food and no health care. On top of that, their property is repossessed by their husband’s relatives, and they and their children are left with nothing. I’ve been working with an incredible local organization in Bolgatanga, the Widows and Orphans Movement, that is advocating for women and children and also helping women learn new skills to support their families. We’re gathering the stories of women who have experienced these rites and learning about how it affected their physical and mental health. We’ll be creating animated videos of their stories to share on social media and raise awareness. I’m working on a venture to improve access to blood and blood products for women and children in rural communities in Ghana, where access is very limited. I’m developing a system that facilitates availability of these products to patients when and where they need them. After graduation, I’ll be taking some time to work on this and will also be completing my residency training. —Amy Roeder Photo: Kent Dayton Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Subscribe The COVID-19 Update Our researchers are on the front lines of the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sign up here to receive our weekly newsletter highlighting their efforts. Join mailing list Additional newsletters and mailing lists Related Articles global health violence women’s health A call to optimize child health Opinion: Botswana lab that identified omicron is model for global health goals Program to help business leaders address public health challenges More on this topic Why there’s so much gun violence in the U.S.—and what to do about it Better data needed around deaths in police custody The costs of gun violence More on this topic Racism, sexism, social class, and health—30 years ago and today Op-ed: How to save abortion rights Cancer FactFinder website launched to provide fact-based, reliable information about causes of cancer More on this topic Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College