<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Perspectives Perspectives Felipe Núñez MBA 2022 Video Video Home Region Los Angeles, CA Undergrad Education University of Texas at Austin, BBA, 2012 Previous Experience MRC, Gerson Lehrman Group HBS Activities Latino Student Organization (LASO), Entertainment and Media Club CFO, PRIDE Head of Communications, Social Enterprise Fellow “I view my purpose in life as really enabling storytelling and creativity, whether it's coming from a writer, filmmaker, musician, photographer, painter, whoever it might be.” Why did you choose this path at this point in time? My instincts told me it was the right move. Coming to HBS is like... ...those moments in Fleabag when Phoebe Waller-Bridge’s character looks directly at the audience for a split second… there’s a sense of delighted incredulity and amazement that peeps through occasionally, but in the meantime, we’re all doing our best to look cool, calm, and collected. Full disclosure: I seldom manage to successfully pull off looking “cool.” Being part of the HBS community is like... ...jumping out of a plane, freaking out for a moment, and then realizing that you have an army of friends with you that will teach you how to operate your parachute and land with as much grace as humanly possible. As a kid, what did you want to be when you grew up? Funny. What is your favorite childhood memory? I lived in New Zealand for a few years as a kid. One random Saturday, my mom decides we’ll go for an impromptu day trip somewhere. We drive for a few hours and end up at some beach, I’ll never remember the name. We sit by the water, enjoy the sun, and eat the most delicious fish and chips ever made. Who is one person from your life that you admire the most today? My mom, of course. What’s the best thing about your home town? The fact that I have many, and each is meaningful to me in a different way. Topics Entertainment Research Home Region Los Angeles, CA Undergrad Education University of Texas at Austin, BBA, 2012 Previous Experience MRC, Gerson Lehrman Group HBS Activities Latino Student Organization (LASO), Entertainment and Media Club CFO, PRIDE Head of Communications, Social Enterprise Fellow Topics Entertainment Research ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College