Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News 4 benefits of hiring a co-op student While cooperative education has a range of proven benefits for college students, hiring a co-op student also provides advantages for employers and businesses. What should I major in? Struggling with picking the right college major for you? From business to classical civilization, the University of Cincinnati offers more than 300 majors and programs. Here's Here's everything you need to know about college majors and how to choose a major that's perfect for you. 3 ways to prepare for college while you’re still in high school Three ways to make sure you’re prepared for college as you begin your journey in high school. From developing good study habits to researching what an ideal college setting looks like for you, here are three ways to make sure you’re prepared for success in college after high school. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove 4 benefits of hiring a co-op student While cooperative education has a range of proven benefits for college students, hiring a co-op student also provides advantages for employers and businesses. What should I major in? Struggling with picking the right college major for you? From business to classical civilization, the University of Cincinnati offers more than 300 majors and programs. Here's Here's everything you need to know about college majors and how to choose a major that's perfect for you. 3 ways to prepare for college while you’re still in high school Three ways to make sure you’re prepared for college as you begin your journey in high school. From developing good study habits to researching what an ideal college setting looks like for you, here are three ways to make sure you’re prepared for success in college after high school. Everything you need to know about UC housing January 27, 2022 UC Director of Housing Carl Dieso shares the housing process — apply, select your room and move in — and benefits of living on campus. UC Answers: How do I apply for financial aid? Incoming college students are full of questions about how to pay for school, the steps toward getting financial aid help. Get answers from UC experts. UC Answers: What resources are available for parents and... August 26, 2021 When a student becomes a Bearcat, so does their family. UC Parent & Family Programs and its director Whitney White offer a wealth of resources to help families support their students. UC Answers: Why is giving back so important? February 17, 2021 Francesca Gottardi has served countless hours with the Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights at the University of Cincinnati College of Law, including in Georgia where she fought for women's rights. UC Answers: Why is mentorship key to college success? January 25, 2021 Alice Hicks is passionate about helping Cincinnati Public Schools students reach their goals through a success coaching program at UC Blue Ash College. UC Answers: How does UC replicate the design studio experience... November 18, 2020 Stephen Slaughter is an assistant professor in the University of Cincinnati’s College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning. This year, like so many instructors, Slaughter had to shift gears in his classes in DAAP’s School of Architecture and Interior Design to accommodate online learning. Slaughter shares how he adapted his studio classes for a virtual environment. UC Answers: What’s it like to be a first-gen student? November 8, 2020 Sydney King is a first-generation student studying special education in the University of Cincinnati’s College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services (CECH). An ambassador to her college, King offers advice to other first-generation students . UC Answers: How does UC support first-gen students? November 8, 2020 First-generation college grad Jamar Beckham is a financial aid adviser at the University of Cincinnati and proud UC alumnus. Beckham received his bachelor’s degree in criminal justice in 2018 from UC’s College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services. He offers advice to other first-generation students navigating higher education. UC Answers: How are researchers responding to COVID? November 6, 2020 Melanie Cushion, PhD, senior associate dean for research at the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine., discussed how laboratories and scientific discovery continued despite restrictions put in place to keep everyone safe in the midst of COVID-19. UC Answers: How can mindfulness help us cope? October 9, 2020 Mindfulness is a capacity and a skill that we can learn to bring us into present moment awareness so that we can engage fully with what “is” rather than with “what was” or “what we think might be coming.” UC Answers: How does UC prep journalists in the digital age? October 1, 2020 Department head Jeffery Blevins provides insight into how UC is preparing journalists in the digital age. UC Answers: How has COVID-19 impacted information technology? September 30, 2020 The University of Cincinnati's School of Information Technology is helping workers and students take on the digital skills gap being exacerbated by COVID-19. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top