Harvard Health Publishing Harvard Health Publishing Search Search Close Shopping Cart Customer Service Content Licensing About Us Login Open mobile menu Menu Free HealthBeat Signup Shop Subscriptions Special Health Reports Online Courses Pay Subscription Bill Common Conditions Staying Healthy Resources Blog COVID-19 Updates Close menu Close Main Content Common Conditions Staying Healthy Resources Blog Helpful Links Customer Service Content Licensing About Us Login Free Healthbeat Signup Subscriptions Special Health Reports Online Courses Pay Subscription Bill Recent Blog Articles Considering pregnancy and have lupus? Plan ahead Some men whose prostate cancer progresses can safely delay treatment Heart-healthy habits for children and teens lengthen lives Monkeypox: An unfamiliar virus spreading fast — sound familiar? Diabetes: Does a long-term study reinforce or change approaches to prevention? War anxiety: How to cope Can we prevent depression in older adults by treating insomnia? Want to try veganism? Here's how to get started Vitamin B6 flies under the radar: Are you getting enough? The formula shortage is hurting families: What parents should know and do / Mind & Mood Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? February 7, 2022 By Stephanie Collier, MD, MPH, Contributor For the past two months your mood has been low, you’ve lost your appetite, and you can’t sleep well. Your family is concerned because you are no longer interested in cooking or reading, activities you had previously enjoyed. The stress of the pandemic has changed your routine, and you struggle to balance your remote work, childcare duties, household management, and the care of your ill father. You tried to reach out to a therapist, but after an extensive search online, you found the first available appointment to be months away. A good friend suggested mobile therapy apps, but do they work? What does the research say? Mental health apps claim to treat depression, anxiety, and other mental illnesses without therapy appointments. There’s no wait time involved, and every person with a smartphone has immediate access. In addition to their convenience, many apps are free. If this sounds too good to be true, you may be right. Research looking at randomized controlled trials of mobile app mental health interventions with almost 50,000 patients did not find "convincing evidence" that any mobile app intervention greatly improved outcomes related to people’s anxiety, depression, smoking or drinking, thoughts of suicide, or feelings of well-being. While this sounds unfortunate, this may be related to the study methods in which researchers grouped interventions together that may be completely different. A small trial with a positive effect could thus appear unhelpful if its effects are combined with less helpful interventions. Treatments work when we believe in them. One study compared the popular meditation app Headspace to a sham version (which included guided breathing but without the active component of mindfulness). Study participants reported improved outcomes (critical thinking and mindfulness) with both active and sham versions, which suggests that the active ingredient may not be in the intervention component itself. What about computerized cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) programs for depression? Researchers from the UK studied the effects of the most popular CBT programs (Beating the Blues and MoodGYM), and they also did not find any benefit compared to care as usual in primary care. What can we make of these results? Research on the mental health effects of mobile apps is still in its infancy, and we will have more to guide us in the next few years. Low-touch interventions like mobile apps may help get you through a rough time, or at least help increase your symptom awareness. Will it treat your depression? Probably not, but it may help if you believe in it. Mobile apps can complement therapy When looking at the many types of psychotherapy available, interestingly, they all result in a similar amount of symptom improvement. The strongest factor in helping patients make progress is actually the relationship with the therapist. Having a secure place to speak about your stressors, seeing your concerns validated in the eyes of another person, and developing a trusting relationship are all components of therapy. A mobile app removes the human element of a therapeutic relationship, which we know is a critical ingredient in treatment success. However, mobile apps can complement therapy through symptom trackers, reminders, reinforcement of skills, and community features to set goals and share progress. When mobile apps are not enough Although mobile apps may seem harmless, there are a couple reasons you may want to look into a specific app or hold off altogether. The first is privacy concerns: many apps are not transparent about their security features, and less than half of mobile apps for depression have a privacy policy. The second is a delay in treatment. Although mobile apps are becoming more promising and data-driven, they cannot replace a trained mental health clinician at this time. If you are suffering from severe symptoms, you will likely need more than a mobile app can provide you: a correct diagnosis, a human relationship, and an individualized discussion about your treatment options. How do you choose a good mobile app? With thousands of mental health apps available online, finding one that works for you may take some trial and error. I recommend the following apps based on their evidence base, usability, security features, and my clinical experience. For insomnia: CBT-i Coach For post-traumatic stress disorder: PTSD Coach For stress related to COVID: COVID Coach For learning distress tolerance skills: DBT Coach For managing your mood and anxiety: CBT Thought Diary For monitoring your mood/memory and keeping your mind sharp: THINC-it. About the Author Stephanie Collier, MD, MPH, Contributor Dr. Stephanie Collier is the director of education in the division of geriatric psychiatry at McLean Hospital; consulting psychiatrist for the population health management team at Newton-Wellesley Hospital; and instructor in psychiatry at Harvard Medical School. … See Full Bio View all posts by Stephanie Collier, MD, MPH Share This Page Share this page to Facebook Share this page to Twitter Share this page via Email Print This Page Click to Print Disclaimer: As a service to our readers, Harvard Health Publishing provides access to our library of archived content. Please note the date of last review or update on all articles. No content on this site, regardless of date, should ever be used as a substitute for direct medical advice from your doctor or other qualified clinician. Comments Commenting has been closed for this post. You might also be interested in… Understanding Depression Depression is more than a passing bout of sadness or dejection, or feeling down in the dumps. It can leave you feeling continuously burdened and can sap the joy out of once-pleasurable activities. In Understanding Depression, find out how effective treatment can lighten your mood, strengthen your connections with loved ones, allow you to find satisfaction in interests and hobbies, and make you feel more like yourself again. Read More Mind & Mood Protein intake associated with less cognitive decline Mind & Mood Magic mushrooms and toad venom Mind & Mood A high-fiber diet may reduce the risk of dementia Free Healthbeat Signup Get the latest in health news delivered to your inbox! Newsletter Signup Sign Up Footer Harvard Health Publishing Facebook Twitter Linkedin YouTube My Account Customer Service Log in Order Now Online Learning Courses Digital Subscriptions Special Health Reports Print Subscriptions More About Us Permissions Content Licensing Topics © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College Do not sell my personal information | Privacy Policy Scroll To Top Close Thanks for visiting. Don't miss your FREE gift. The Best Diets for Cognitive Fitness, is yours absolutely FREE when you sign up to receive Health Alerts from Harvard Medical School Sign up to get tips for living a healthy lifestyle, with ways to fight inflammation and improve cognitive health, plus the latest advances in preventative medicine, diet and exercise, pain relief, blood pressure and cholesterol management, and more. I want to get healthier Close Health Alerts from Harvard Medical School Get helpful tips and guidance for everything from fighting inflammation to finding the best diets for weight loss...from exercises to build a stronger core to advice on treating cataracts. PLUS, the latest news on medical advances and breakthroughs from Harvard Medical School experts. BONUS! Sign up now and get a FREE copy of the Best Diets for Cognitive Fitness I want to get healthier Close Stay on top of latest health news from Harvard Medical School. Plus, get a FREE copy of the Best Diets for Cognitive Fitness. Sign me up