Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Music Therapy Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Music Therapy Major Apply Visit Request More Info Music Therapy Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Undergraduate Audition Requirements Bachelor of Music in Music Therapy Learn how music can help people improve or maintain their cognitive, emotional, physical, social and spiritual well-being with the Bachelor of Music (BM) in Music Therapy in Temple's Boyer College of Music and Dance. Designed to prepare you for entry-level clinical positions in music therapy, you can pursue work in a variety of settings, including general hospitals, geriatric facilities, hospice programs, prisons, private practices, psychiatric facilities, rehabilitation centers, schools and community settings. This 130-credit Bachelor of Music will take you four and a half years to complete, including postacademic clinical training. Over the course of your studies, you will follow a sequence of academic coursework and clinical training including a supervised postacademic clinical internship. In the final two semesters of study, you will work part or full time in an approved clinical site for a total of 1,000 hours, learning to assume the complete range of professional responsibilities of a music therapist. Fully approved by the American Music Therapy Association, you will learn the importance of interpersonal skills, musicianship and self-understanding through courses in applied music, history, psychology and theory, with functional instrument lessons and clinical methods. In order to align your studies with your particular career goals, you can choose the Jazz or Traditional concentration. After successful completion of the Music Therapy BM, you’ll be eligible to take the national examination of the Certification Board for Music Therapists and, in turn, qualify for professional certification in the field. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover music therapy faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer music therapy degree programs. Classes & Curriculum Classes in the Music Therapy BM focus on ethics, methods and research used in practice. In this program, some of your courses will include Developmental Music Therapy, Music Therapy Overview, Medical/Rehabilitative Music Therapy and Secondary Piano. Learn more about required Music Therapy BM courses. Related Graduate Degrees Music Therapy MMT (Also available as a combined master’s equivalency program.) Music Therapy PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $19,032.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,408.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Helen Shoemark is the coordinator of the Undergraduate Music Therapy Program. Phone: 215-204-8311 Email: helen.shoemark@temple.edu Darlene Brooks is the director of the Music Therapy Program. Phone: 215-204-8340 Email: darlene.brooks@temple.edu Alison Reynolds is the chair of the Department of Music Education and Therapy. Phone: 215-204-1660 Email: alison.reynolds@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. Music Therapy Club raises money for charity organizations and performs community service projects. The club also raises funds to send students to the American Music Therapy Association Mid-Atlantic Conference. National Association for Music Education is a conservatory chapter of the national organization of music educators. Semester activities include creating projects, presenting guest speakers and workshops, attending the PMEA All-State conference, participating in outreach activities, and learning to use various online music education resources. OwlCappella is a coed a cappella group—one of seven student-run a cappella ensembles on campus—that provides a musical outlet for non-music and music majors alike. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offers all full-time, degree-seeking students the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Host countries include Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Study abroad advisors will help you with your study abroad plans for either a Temple program or an external program. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. Concentrations You can focus on Music Therapy or you can take one of the following concentrations. Bassoon Cello Clarinet Classical Guitar Double Bass Euphonium Flute French Horn Harp Harpsichord Oboe Percussion Piano Saxophone Trombone Trumpet Tuba Viola Violin Voice BC-MTHE-BMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Music Therapy Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Undergraduate Audition Requirements Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info