Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About About the UW Diversity Global Impact Innovation Leadership Maps Population Health Sustainability Visit Academics Academic calendar Academic departments Colleges and schools Course descriptions Registration Student guide Time schedule Apply Admissions Financial Aid Continuing education Majors Student housing Transfer students Tuition and fees Undocumented students UW Online News & Events UW News Featured stories Arts UW Calendar UW Magazine Husky sports Newsletter Research Office of Research Research Lifecycle Resources Collaboration Stats and rankings Campuses Bothell Seattle Tacoma Give Give now Ways to give My UW Giving Getting to campus Public transit to the UW Visitor Center By bus: There are more than 60 bus routes that serve the University District, including many with stops right on campus. By Link light rail: The UW Link light-rail stop is at Husky Stadium, a 45-minute ride from Sea-Tac International Airport. It’s a 15-minute walk from the UW light-rail stop to the Visitor Center. By air: Sea-Tac International Airport serves Seattle and is about 30 minutes from campus by car (during heavy traffic, this may take up to an hour) or about 45 minutes by light rail. Driving to the UW Visitor Center From Interstate 5 (I-5), northbound or southbound: Important: Do not use the I-5 express lanes. Take exit 169 (NE 45th St.) toward NE 45th St. Turn east on NE 45th St. Turn right on 15th Ave. NE and continue to NE 41st St. The entrance to the Central Plaza Parking Garage is on the left. From the east side of Lake Washington via SR 520 (toll bridge): Take SR 520 westbound toward Seattle. Take the Montlake Blvd. NE exit, then turn right (north) onto Montlake Blvd. and cross the Montlake Bridge. Just past the bridge, turn left on NE Pacific St. and continue west. (You’ll pass UW Medical Center and the Health Sciences complex on your left.) Turn right onto 15th Ave. NE and continue north two blocks to NE 41st St. The entrance to the Central Plaza Parking Garage is on your right. Parking on campus If you drive, we recommend getting to campus at least 30 minutes before your scheduled visit to allow time to park and find your way to your destination. When you arrive, visit one of the gatehouses to purchase a permit. The gatehouse attendant will direct you to a parking lot. Gatehouse locations View gatehouses on the interactive campus map (select the Gatehouses layer). 15th Ave. NE at NE 41st St. Memorial Way between NE 45th & NE 43rd St. 15th Ave. NE at Grant Lane Pend Oreille Rd., off Montlake Blvd. NE Seattle weather Despite its rainy reputation, Seattle averages just 37.5 inches of rain a year — less than Miami. Drizzles are more likely than downpours, so umbrellas are less common than the all-important rain jacket. Typically temperate winters — from November through March, the average is 47 degrees — encourage wearing layers that can be shed as chilly mornings turn into warmer afternoons. On the rare occasions snow falls (in inches rather than feet), Seattleites bust out their sleds and cross-country skis to revel on closed streets. Seattle summers really shine: June through August, the average temp is 71 degrees, with maybe a week or two of over-80 weather (usually in July). The moderate heat and dry, blue-sky days make the area a paradise for hikers, campers, kayakers, cyclists and other lovers of the outdoors. For the latest weather updates on campus, check out The UW Dawgcast! Return to Visitor Center Campus map University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA