Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Coronavirus Updates Guidelines Masks on Campus Info For... Vaccine Testing Case Report Communications FAQs Resources HEERF Reporting Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Resources Preventing COVID-19 Handwashing Guide Printable Communication Pieces Take Action Review Guidelines Daily Self-Checker Testing Center View Cases on Campus Report CARES Act Home Coronavirus Updates Resources Resources Available To You Emergency Funds & Food Insecurities Efforts to address student food insecurity will also continue via the Tiger Pantry: Students can visit memphis.edu/tigerpantry to sign up for a bag pickup time. This replaces the former choice pantry model to reduce the health risk. **Please inform us of any specific dietary needs/restrictions.. Tiger Meal Swipes program is also available. This program provides five free swipes to the Tiger Den facility to get a meal. Learn more about Tiger Meal Swipes > The Office of the Dean of Students has compiled a comprehensive list of resources to assist with Emergency Fund Relief related to COVID-19. Review the list of resources > The Office of the Dean of Students is available to provide you with guidance and resources to support your continued academic pursuits. To efficiently address your needs, we will provide service and support through our Dean of Students Student Support Assistance Request form. After receiving your form submission, we will connect you with a staff member who will identify resources for your specific needs. Handwashing & Hand Sanitizer Helpline Please remember the best way to protect yourself from getting sick is by washing your hands. Please use our handwashing guide for the most effective techniques. Review other preventative actions > The UofM campus has at least one hand sanitizer station in each hallway in every building, in addition to the bathroom soap dispensers. To report empty dispensers, contact Work Control at 901.678.2699 or 901.678.2075. Student Health Center Appointments To protect the campus community and student health and wellness, the Student Health Center is providing virtual appointments for patients. Visit My Patient Portal to schedule a virtual appointment, or call 901.443.1397 or 901.443.6438 between 9 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Virtual appointments are available from 10:30 a.m.-2 p.m., Monday through Friday. Learn more about scheduling an appointment > Counseling Center To protect the campus community and student health and wellness, the Counseling Center is currently offering consultation via teletherapy appointments. If you need crisis assistance, please call 901.504.6442 or 901.468.3633 during business hours (8:00 AM to 4:30 PM). If you are experiencing a crisis emergency after hours please call 901.678.HELP (4357). Learn more at memphis.edu/counseling. YourHealth Helpline In an effort to support our students, faculty and staff, the Loewenberg College of Nursing has established a designated email helpline to submit questions. The email is staffed by experienced nursing and public health faculty who will respond to any COVID-19-related questions you may have. It is our goal to make sure you have the correct information that you need during this time. To submit your question to the helpline, please email yourhealth@memphis.edu. Student Online Learning Resources eCourseware Student Support- more in-depth materials on navigating eCourseware View an introductory video for eCourseware > UMTech Support - anything online tech related (or contact umtech@memphis.edu or 901.678.8888) Online Tutoring - available 24/7 online Equipment - laptops and hot spots are available to check out for a period of one semester Disability Resources for Students (DRS) - a comprehensive program of accommodations and services designed to provide access and opportunity is available to qualified students with disabilities Advising questions? Reach out to your academic advisor first. If you're unsure of who to contact, email freeadvice@memphis.edu. For all other online learning questions, contact the UofM Global Student Advocates at uofmglobal@memphis.edu. Faculty Online Teaching Resources Learn more about remote teaching options and request assistance > Quick Links Visit the Center for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC) for the most current information > View a Global Map showing confirmed cases > CDC Guidance for Travelers > COVID-19 FAQs (CDC) > Tennessee Department of Health COVID-19 Updates > The President's Coronavirus Guidelines for America: Do Your Part to Slow the Spread of the Coronavirus > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/14/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.