Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Reflections Home Connect Spirituality Reflections Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections During the Church seasons of Advent and Lent we offer a series of weekly reflections written by a member of the BC community. Advent Reflections During the four weeks of Advent, we prepare for the celebration of Christ's birth through prayer and reflection. We contemplate the First Coming of Jesus as Savior and anticipate his promised Second Coming. And amid the flurry of Christmas preparations, we look for practical ways to observe the holiness of the season in our everyday lives. Read Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Lent is a season of repentance and renewal. We turn away from our sinfulness and recommit ourselves to following Jesus. Ignatian contemplation and reflective prayer encourage us in the season of Lent. Throughout the season of Lent, a member of the BC community shares his or her thoughts on the season and the importance of passing on the faith. A new reflection is posted on Friday for each week of Lent. Read Lenten Reflections Sign up below to receive faith-based reflections during the Lenten and Advent seasons to provide spiritual fulfillment. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok