Skip navigation For Alumni For Employers In the Know About Contact LionSHARE Jobs & Internships Jobs Internships Employers We Work With CCE Internship Programs Funding Programs Career Counseling Drop-in Hours Career Counseling Appointments Practice Interviews Programs & Services Career Resources Design Your Next Steps Resumes & CVs Cover Letters Networking Negotiating Interviews Workplace Career Advancement Graduate School Free Premium Resources Career Exploration Majors Industries Arts Business Communications & Media Consulting Education Engineering & Technology Environment & Sustainability Financial Services Government Healthcare International Affairs Law Non-Profits & Social Justice Psychology, Counseling & Social Work Science Sports Startups Student Experiences Career Assessments Connect With Alumni Info For... First-Generation/Low-Income Students International Students Students with Disabilities Veteran Students LGBTQ Students Visiting Students Families Students of Color Women Events Jobs & Internships Jobs Internships Employers We Work With CCE Internship Programs Funding Programs Career Counseling Drop-in Hours Career Counseling Appointments Practice Interviews Programs & Services Career Resources Design Your Next Steps Resumes & CVs Cover Letters Networking Negotiating Interviews Workplace Career Advancement Graduate School Free Premium Resources Career Exploration Majors Industries Student Experiences Career Assessments Connect With Alumni Info For... First-Generation/Low-Income Students International Students Students with Disabilities Veteran Students LGBTQ Students Visiting Students Families Students of Color Women Events Search You are here Home Jobs & Internships Funding Programs **** THE SUMMER FUNDING PROGRAM APPLICATION PERIOD FOR SUMMER 2022 IS NOW CLOSED. WE ARE NO LONGER ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS. APPLICANTS WILL BE NOTIFIED OF THEIR APPLICATION STATUS THE WEEK OF MAY 2, 2022. **** Please carefully review the program pages below. If you have any questions, contact us at cce-funding@columbia.edu. Programs Work Exemption Program Spring Summer Fall Recipients of the Work Exemption Program (WEP) receive a Columbia Grant to support their pursuit of unpaid internships, research projects, and community outreach, locally, nationally, and internationally. Eligibility: Columbia College and Columbia Engineering undergraduate students receiving grant-based financial aidFunding Programs Columbia College Summer Funding Program Summer The Columbia College Summer Funding Program provides funding to Columbia College students participating in unpaid or low paid summer internships related to their career pursuits and/or academic studies. Eligibility: Columbia College students who have secured an unpaid or low paid summer internship. Please note that certain donors restrict funding to students receiving grant-based financial aid. Funding ProgramsInternships Columbia Engineering Internship Fund Summer The Columbia Engineering Internship Fund (CEIF) provides funding to selected Columbia Engineering students to participate in an unpaid or low-paid engineering summer internships related to their career pursuits and/or academic studies. Eligibility: Columbia Engineering students who have secured an unpaid or low paid summer internship.Funding ProgramsInternshipsEngineering & Technology Resources Ways to Gain Experience as a First-Year (and beyond) As a first-year student, there are many ways to build experience through internships, research, volunteering, student club activities, and on-campus jobs. Here are a handful of opportunities to get started.Career ExplorationFunding ProgramsInternships Finding an Undergraduate Research Position Getting research experience during your time as an undergraduate can aid in your pursuit for graduate school or certain career opportunities. There are many opportunities available to conduct research alongside faculty at Columbia or other universities and research institutes.Funding ProgramsInternships In the Know Friday, March 1, 2019 Insider Tips for your Summer Funding Programs Application The Summer Funding Programs application opened on March 1. Applications are due April 15, 2019 at 11:59 pm.Read moreFunding ProgramsInternships Wednesday, February 13, 2019 Nearly $140,000 in WEP Grants Awarded to Students for Spring 2019 Opportunities Congratulations to the Columbia College and Columbia Engineering students awarded Work Exemption Program (WEP) grants for the Spring 2019 semester!Read moreFunding Programs Monday, November 12, 2018 Students Reflect on their Journeys in Experiences Supported by CCE Funding Programs After the Summer Funding Program, students are able to reflect on their experience participating in unpaid or low-paid summer internships related to their career pursuits and/or academic studies. In this reflection, students shared how they used or further developed Columbia College’s core competencies . Below are some of the highlights.Read moreFunding Programs Monday, October 8, 2018 Nearly $130,000 in WEP Grants Awarded to Students for Fall 2018 Opportunities Congratulations to the Columbia College and Columbia Engineering students awarded Work Exemption Program (WEP) grants for the Fall 2018 semester!Read moreFunding Programs Tuesday, May 15, 2018 Over $1.1 Million Awarded To Support Student Summer Experiences A Record-Breaking Year! We broke records this summer by administering over $1.1 million in Work Exemption Program (WEP) grants and summer funding awards to Columbia undergraduate students! A...Read moreFunding Programs Share This Facebook Twitter Print HTML Apply for Summer Funding Video of Summer Funding Programs Making the Most of an Internship Ready to Start Your Search? Visit LionSHARE, Columbia’s job and internship database. LionSHARE 71,502 jobs and internships were posted on LionSHARE last year See all of our data Top VISIT US East Campus Building Lower Level 116th & Amsterdam (enter through Wien Courtyard) CALL US (212) 854-5609 Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn OFFICE HOURS Monday-Friday, 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM QUICK QUESTION? Virtual Drop-in Hours offered Monday — Friday from 2 p.m. — 4 p.m. ET during the academic year. ACCESSIBILITY INFORMATION Disability access is available at the southern door of 70-74 Morningside Drive. Ramps provide entrance to the front desk. A sign indicating disability access and Center telephone numbers is posted below the University call box. To ensure the ease of access, it is strongly encouraged that clients call either the front desk at 212-854-5609, Employer and Alumni Relations at 212-854-9167, or visit our Contact Us form prior to arrival. SEARCH JOBS AND INTERNSHIPS To make an appointment, visit LionSHARE. For all inquiries CONTACT US Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York Privacy Policy Notice of Non-Discrimination Terms of Use