Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Academics Forward Arrow Academics Undergraduates Forward Arrow Undergraduates Majors Tour Transfer Students SPECTRA Program Resources & FAQ Back Arrow Back Graduates Forward Arrow Graduates Program Contacts STEM All In CECAST Graduate Podcast Back Arrow Back Degree Pathways Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Advising Forward Arrow Advising Graduate Coordinators Undergraduate Advising Change of Major Back Arrow Back Academic Support Forward Arrow Academic Support Tutoring Grad Peer Mentors Back Arrow Back Community Engagement Forward Arrow Engagement Global Engagement Leadership Programs Back Arrow Back Recognition Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research Facilities Endowed Chairs Centers & Institutes Grant Management Proposal Development Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About Administration Business Office Departments Directory PROMO Back Arrow Back Connect Forward Arrow Connect Alumni Awards IDEAS Magazine Outreach Ways to Give Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Students Academics show submenu for Academics Undergraduates show submenu for Undergraduates Majors Tour Transfer Students SPECTRA Program Resources & FAQ Graduates show submenu for Graduates Program Contacts STEM All In CECAST Graduate Podcast Degree Pathways Students show submenu for Students Advising show submenu for Advising Graduate Coordinators Undergraduate Advising Change of Major Academic Support show submenu for Academic Support Tutoring Grad Peer Mentors Community show submenu for Community Clubs & Orgs Engagement show submenu for Engagement Global Engagement Leadership Programs Recognition Research show submenu for Research Facilities Endowed Chairs Centers & Institutes Grant Management Proposal Development About show submenu for About Administration Business Office Departments Directory PROMO Connect show submenu for Connect Alumni Awards IDEAS Magazine Outreach Ways to Give Clemson Home College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Students Community Current: Clubs & Orgs Clubs and Organizations Broaden Your Network Students can broaden their horizons by joining clubs, professional societies, and other organizations. Membership and participation help sharpen career skills, expand social networks, explore interests and improve time management. Many clubs are open to a broad range of majors and interests. Their activities range from racing cars and designing medical devices to providing Haitians with clean water and learning leadership skills. Explore Opportunities Interdisciplinary Clubs CECAS Student Advisory Board (CECASSAB) Purpose: To advocate for students within our departments and encourage collaboration between the departments and the community within the college. Who can join? Students (undergraduate or graduate) within the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences may apply to serve on the board. When is membership recruitment? Members are recruited in the second half of the Spring semester. CECASSAB website Facebook Clemson Engineers for Developing Countries (CEDC) Faculty Advisor: David Vaughn Purpose: Clemson Engineers for Developing Countries is a student-run organization through Creative Inquiry aiming to serve the developing world and develop those who serve. Who can join? All undergraduate students in any field of study. Graduate students who have participated in the program previously may have the opportunity to become an advisor for an undergraduate project group. When is membership recruitment? Members are recruited before the last day to register or add a class each Fall and Spring semester. CEDC website Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) Main Contact: Courtland Woods Purpose: NSBE aims to increase the number of culturally responsible black engineers who excel academically, succeed professionally, and positively impact the community. Who can join? Any undergraduate or graduate student. When is membership recruitment? Fall (preferably) and spring. NSBE website PEER Organization Faculty Advisor: Lisa Jackson Purpose: This organization is designed for the underrepresented students in CECAS to promote professional, social, and academics on the Clemson University campus. Who can join? Any STEM major in the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences. When is membership recruitment? Beginning of fall and spring semesters. PEER website Instagram Society of Hispanic Professional Engineering (SHPE) Faculty Advisor: Dr. Luiz Jacobsohn Purpose: SHPE changes lives by empowering the Hispanic community to realize its fullest potential and impact the world through STEM awareness, access, support, and development. Who can join? Any undergraduate Clemson student (you do not have to be Hispanic/Latino or an engineering major). When is membership recruitment? Any time Facebook Instagram Twitter Society of Women Engineers Faculty Advisor: Dr. Melissa Smith Purpose: Society of Women Engineers is an organization focused on increasing the relationship between people in engineering programs and improving career development to succeed in industry or graduate school after graduation. Who can join? Eligible undergraduate and graduate students must be in the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences. All are welcome to attend meetings. When is membership recruitment? Members are recruited at Tiger Prowl in the fall and spring. For more information about joining, please email swe@clemson.edu. Tau Beta Pi Faculty Advisor: Dr. Steven Brandon Purpose: Tau Beta Pi is the oldest national engineering society in the United States honoring engineering students who exemplify academic achievement and character. Who can join? Undergraduate juniors who rank in the top eighth of their class and seniors who rank in the top fifth of their class are invited for membership in Tau Beta Pi. When is membership recruitment? Invitations are sent out at the beginning of each semester to qualified students. Tau Beta Pi website Facebook Theta Tau Professional Engineering Fraternity Faculty Advisor: Dr. Martine Laberge Purpose: Theta Tau is a professional fraternity that focuses on improving the professional development skills of our members while also participating in community service, fundraising, outreach, and brotherhood events together. Who can join? Undergraduate engineering, computer science, and computer information systems majors with a GPA above 2.5 and at least one year left until graduation. When is membership recruitment? Within the first three weeks of the fall and spring semesters Theta Tau website Instagram Automotive Engineering CU-ICAR Student Association Faculty Advisor: Dr. Dee Kivett Purpose: Consists of an eight-member board that represents the automotive engineering student body. All members pay semester fees, and all automotive engineering students are encouraged to join. Who can join? Membership is open to all automotive engineering students. When is membership recruitment? Students are free to join any time of the year, and memberships are renewed annually. Association website Bioengineering Clemson Bioengineering Society (CBS) Faculty Advisor: Dr. Delphine Dean Purpose: The Clemson Bioengineering Society acts as Clemson University's graduate chapter for the Society For Biomaterials and the Biomedical Engineering Society. Who can join? Clemson University Graduate Students. When is membership recruitment? Continual CBS website Clemson Engineering World Health (EWH) Faculty Advisor: Dr. Delphine Dean Purpose: The Clemson chapter of EWH works on service activities related to healthcare technology, basic skills workshops to help students learn basic technical skills, and outreach activities for K-12 students. Who can join? Undergraduate and graduate students. When is membership recruitment? Year-round EWH website Undergraduate Clemson Bioengineering Society (UCBS) Faculty Advisor: Dr. Ken Webb Purpose: Networking and professional development among bioengineering students Who can join? Anyone interested in bioengineering When is membership recruitment? Throughout the year UCBS website Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering American Institute of Chemical Engineers Faculty Advisor: Dr. Christopher Norfolk Purpose: The purpose of the student chapter is to strengthen the Clemson chemical engineering community and enrich students' experience with social, professional, and service opportunities. Who can join? While we typically cater to chemical engineering students, any major can join. When is membership recruitment? Recruitment is typically the beginning of each semester. However, new members are accepted year-round. Club website Chemical Engineering Graduate Student Organization (CEGSO) Faculty Advisor: Dr. Mark Roberts Purpose: CEGSO promotes social and academic interaction between ChBE graduate students. Who can join? Chemical and biomolecular engineering masters and Ph.D. students When is membership recruitment? Rolling recruitment period CEGSO website Facebook Civil Engineering Clemson American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) Student Chapter Faculty Advisor: Professor Stephen Csernak Purpose: The main objective of the ASCE student chapter is to encourage its members to study civil engineering and advance the civil engineering profession. Who can join? Any Clemson student When is membership recruitment? Year-round with membership drives in January and August (first two weeks of the semesters) Clemson ASCE website Electrical and Computer Engineering Clemson University IEEE (CU IEEE) Faculty Advisor: Dr. Bill Reid Purpose: The Purpose of CU IEEE is to join the students in the electronics and computing disciplines together and allow them to have networking, professional, educational, and common interest meetings across the entire spectrum that encompasses these disciplines. Who can join? Open to undergraduate and graduate students of all majors When is membership recruitment? Year-round CU IEEE website Facebook Instagram Engineering and Science Education Clemson Society for STEM Education (CSTEMEd) Faculty Advisor: Dr. Cindy Lee Purpose: The purpose of the organization is to: inform and educate students and faculty about STEM education research and pedagogies. Who can join? Undergraduate and graduate students interested in STEM education When is membership recruitment? Year-round CSTEMEd website Instagram Environmental Engineering and Earth Sciences Environmental Engineering Club (EES) Faculty Advisor: Dr. Freedman Purpose: The EES Club is a club for undergraduates in the B.S. environmental engineering program. The club provides a link between students, faculty, administration, and alumni to promote a network in the department and field. Who can join? Any undergraduate students in the environmental engineering major. When is membership recruitment? Members are primarily recruited at the beginning of each semester, although new members are welcome to join if they contact the club's officer. Geology Club Faculty Advisor: Dr. Alex Pullen Purpose: Geology Club engages students in the Earth sciences. The club is committed to supporting students in the geology program by preparing them for graduate school and the job market. Who can join? All Clemson undergraduate students are eligible. When is membership recruitment? Focused recruitment is in the Fall semester. Instagram Industrial Engineering Alpha Pi Mu Industrial Engineering Honor Society Faculty Advisor: Dr. Mary Elizabeth Kurz Purpose: Alpha Pi Mu is an honor society that recognizes top junior and senior industrial engineering students for their exceptional academic success. Who can join? The top one-fifth of juniors and the top one-third of seniors in the industrial engineering class are invited to join. Masters and Ph.D. students are eligible for membership with a written recommendation from the department chair of industrial engineering or by another faculty member designated by the department head. When is membership recruitment? Members are recruited in both the fall and spring semesters. Clemson Consulting Club Main Contact: Christopher DaSilva Purpose: To inform students about the consulting industry, recruitment events, and the interview processes to set them up for success in getting a consulting job. Who can join? Open to undergraduate and graduate students of all majors When is membership recruitment? Year-round Clemson Human Factors and Ergonomics Society Faculty Advisor: Dr. Richard Pak Purpose: The society is a group of students, faculty, alumni, and human factors professionals who are passionate about finding ways to improve how people interact with products and technology. The organization is a local chapter of the National Human Factors and Ergonomics Society maintained by students at Clemson University. Who can join? Any Clemson University student or faculty member with experience or interest in the field When is membership recruitment? Continuously, but primarily at the beginning of each semester. Society website Facebook Instagram Institute of Industrial & Systems Engineers (IISE) Faculty Advisor: Dr. Kevin Taaffe Purpose: The Clemson student chapter of IISE seeks to provide a place for students to develop professional skills, provide valuable networking opportunities, and facilitate a sense of Clemson Family and build community. Who can join? Open to undergraduate and graduate students of all majors When is membership recruitment? Members are recruited primarily in the fall, with additional recruitment in the Spring. IISE website Email Club INFORMS Student Chapter of Clemson University Faculty Advisor: Dr. Sandra Eksioglu Purpose: INFORMS Student chapter`s mission is to promote Interest in the Fields of Operations Research, Management Sciences, and analytics. Who can join? All interested full-time enrolled students can join. When is membership recruitment? Throughout the whole year, interested students can apply via Tiger Quest. Club website Materials Science and Engineering Keramos National Professional Ceramic Engineering Fraternity Faculty Advisor: Dr. Fei Peng Purpose: The main function of Keramos is to promote and emphasize scholarship and character in the thoughts of students in ceramics, to stimulate mental development, and to promote interest in the professional aspects of ceramic engineering, technology, and science. Who can join? Materials science and engineering students who have above a 3.0 GPA. When is membership recruitment? Eligible students will be invited to an induction ceremony in the Spring semester. Fraternity website Material Advantage Faculty Advisor: Dr. Fei Peng Purpose: Material Advantage is a national organization for undergraduate students in the field of material science. A joint effort of The American Ceramic Society, the Association for Iron & Steel Technology, ASM International, and the Minerals, Metals, and Materials Society, the organization is dedicated to introducing material science students to the professional materials world. Who can join? Materials science & engineering undergraduate students, graduate students, and general engineering undergraduate students interested in materials science. When is membership recruitment? Membership recruitment is at the beginning of each semester, but people are encouraged to join any time. Club website Materials Research Society (MRS) Faculty Advisor: Dr. Thompson Mefford Purpose: The goal of the Materials Research Society is to embrace, cultivate and capitalize on that diversity, and use it as a resource for a dynamic and vibrant future. Who can join? All students interested in materials research are welcome to join. When is membership recruitment? Graduate students studying materials science and engineering; in the fall. Phi Psi Honors Fraternity Faculty Advisor: Dr. Ulf Schiller Purpose: Promotes social welfare, high standards in academic work, and advancement of members in Materials Science & Engineering careers. Who can join? Materials Science and Engineering majors with a GPA of 3.0 or above. When is membership recruitment? Membership recruitment is at the beginning of the fall and spring semesters. Mechanical Engineering American Society of Mechanical Engineers (CU-ASME) Faculty Advisor: Dr. Jane Zhao Purpose: CU-ASME is a student-run professional development organization that helps prepare mechanical engineering students to become successful in their career field by exposing members to industry, providing opportunities for hands-on experience, and fostering growth in networking and professional connections. Who can join? Anyone who would like to be a member can join. However, typically only mechanical engineering students join. The group requires members to also become a member of ASME's national organization. When is membership recruitment? New members can join at any time. However, a general member recruitment meeting is held at the beginning of each semester. CU-ASME website Facebook ASHRAE Student Chapter Faculty Advisor: Dr. Richard Figliola Purpose: Promote student activities related to professional engineering and control of the build environment. Close relation with the professional chapter in Greenville. Who can join? Open to all students, particularly those in the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences and construction science. When is membership recruitment? Year-round Chapter Website Clemson Formula SAE (CUFSAE) Faculty Advisor: Dr. Gregory Mocko Purpose: Clemson Formula SAE is a student-run organization dedicated to enriching the Clemson students’ education by offering one of the best ways to apply what they learn in class. From engineering to marketing, computer programming to graphic design, CUFSAE has something to offer every student. Who can join? Membership in this organization is open to all registered Clemson University students. There are no prerequisites for skill, knowledge, or experience - all that is sought is the right attitude and a willingness to work hard and learn. When is membership recruitment? Main recruitment takes place in August and September, but interested students are accepted year-round. Just send an email to cufsae@g.clemson.edu. CUFSAE website Instagram Pi Tau Sigma Faculty Advisor: Dr. Xiangchun Xuan Purpose: Pi Tau Sigma is the international honor society for mechanical engineers. Students are chosen based on sound engineering ability, scholarship service, leadership, and integrity. Who can join? Mechanical engineering students will be invited by the organization president and must have at least sophomore standing, have at least a 3.25 GPA, and be in the top 25% of their class. Open to undergraduate and graduate students. When is membership recruitment? Students are recruited in the fall and spring semesters. Pi TAU Sigma website Society of Manufacturing Engineers (SME) Faculty Advisor Dr. Hong Seok Choi Purpose: Clemson SME is a professional organization devoted to promoting manufacturing within the student body of Clemson University as well as in the surrounding community. Who can join? Any student with interest in manufacturing is welcome to join the society. When is membership recruitment? Members are typically recruited at TigerProwl in the Fall semester, but students can join anytime. Please email csme@g.clemson.edu to become a member. School of Computing Association of Computing Machinery (ACM) Student Chapter Faculty Advisor: Brian Dean Main Contact: Dhruv Mukherjee Purpose: The Association of Computing Machinery (ACM) is the main professional society in computing. Student chapters exist at many schools. Our chapter generally supports the needs of the undergraduate student body in the School of Computing. Who can join? Any Clemson Student (undergraduate or graduate) can join, although the chapter’s focus is undergraduates in the School of Computing. When is membership recruitment? Every fall Chapter website CU Cyber Faculty Advisor: John Hoyt Purpose: The Clemson University Cyber Security team’s goals are to help promote awareness and provide the ability to mitigate many of the threats faced daily while using a computer. Who can join? Open to undergraduate and graduate students of all majors When is membership recruitment? Members are typically recruited during the start of the Fall semester at Tiger Prowl. CU Cyber website School of Computing Graduate Student Association Main Contact: Tyler Allen Purpose: Provide academic and social support for graduate students in the school of computing. Also, to operate as a liaison between graduate students and the department administration. Who can join? School of Computing graduate students When is membership recruitment? Year-round. Association website Upcoming Events Events, workshops, and exhibits are held throughout the year on campus. Please click on the events for more information. Student Events More Ways to Connect There is an abundance of events and opportunities for students to get involved - from academic to service projects. Take the PlaceFinder quiz to find great matches for you. Results will be emailed. THRIVE Opportunites THRIVE is a CECAS resource listing student opportunities and events to make the most of your Clemson Experience. Additional resources include leadership and engagement opportunities. THRIVE Explore TigerQuest TigerQuest is a robust search tool filled with unique opportunities at Clemson University. Find events, organizations, news articles, and contact information. TigerQuest Start an Organization Want to start your own organization? Each group needs to have at least 6 students who want to participate. You can then begin the registration process with Clemson Student Affairs. Register Group Tiger Prowl Semester Fair Tiger Prowl is a fair where students can explore and connect with a multitude of extra- and co-curricular opportunities. The event happens twice a year: Fall and Spring. Tiger Prowl College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Copyright © Clemson University College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences | Riggs Hall 864-656-3000 | Directory intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson