Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Bridge to the Ph.D. Program in STEM Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Leadership Bridge Scholars Prospective Applicants Annual Research Symposium Apply to the Bridge Program Current Scholars Alumni Information for Prospective Bridge Scholars Application Information Previous and Current Bridge Advisors Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Contact Us! Other Post-baccalaureate/Bridge Opportunities Bridge to the Ph.D. Program in STEM You are here: Home Program Overview Program Overview The Bridge to the Ph.D. Program aims to enhance the participation of students from underrepresented groups in Ph.D. programs in STEM. The Bridge Program is an intensive research, academic, and mentoring experience for post-baccalaureates seeking to strengthen their graduate school applications and to prepare for the transition into graduate school. Recent Bridge Alumni have gone on to Ph.D. programs at Columbia University, but also to Albert Einstein School of Medicine, Cornell University, Northwestern University, the University of California-Davis, the University of Chicago, and Weill Cornell Medical College. Bridge participants are hired as full-time Columbia University research assistants (RAs) for up to two years and conduct research under the mentorship of faculty members, post-doctoral researchers, and graduate students. The 2019-2020 salary for Bridge RAs is $40,600 per year. Program participants are also provided with $1,500 per year to support professional and educational expenses (examples include travel to professional conferences and the purchase of textbooks), and, as full-time employees, are eligible for University benefits. Note: the salary and education stipend will be $50,123 and $2,000, respectively for Bridge participants in economics. Additionally, Bridge participants enroll in one to two courses per semester at Columbia that is related to their future field of study, and attend monthly one-on-one progress meetings with the Program's Director (Dr. Kwame Osei-Sarfo). The Bridge Program also organizes a number of professional development workshops, provides access to GRE test preparation, and partners with the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science to ensure success while at Columbia and to facilitate application to Ph.D. programs. Follow the links for: an overview of the Bridge Program. information about applying to the Bridge Program. participating departments. answers to frequently asked questions. the biographies of our current Bridge scholars. the biographies of our Bridge alumni/ae. You can also read an article about the Bridge Program in the March 2011 issue of Physics Today. The Columbia Daily Record also featured an article about the Program in June 2012. Bridge Program Application Complete our inquiry form. Sign up for an info session. (212) 853-2401 [email protected] Bridge to the Ph.D. Program in STEMOffice of Graduate Student Affairs, 500 W. 120th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 853-2401 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close