Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Leadership School Diversity Committee Uniquely Frost The Frost Method Ensembles Student Life Campus & Facilities COVID-19 Update Admissions Message from Dean Berg Undergraduate Graduate Visit Contact Us Programs & Degrees Programs by Department Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Frost Online Stamps Ensembles Henry Mancini Institute International Programs Community & Summer Programs Faculty Faculty by Instrument Faculty by Program Department Chairs Events Frost Music Live Event Calendar Concert Tickets Live Stream Hire a Musician Winter Wonderful Giving How to Give Donate Now Donation Form Ever Brighter Campaign Student Emergency Fund Travis Quinn Opportunity Scholarship Fund Sue Miller Fund Impact Alumni Alumni Association Distinguished Alumni Awards Score Magazine Submit Your Updates Stay Connected About Us Admissions Programs & Degrees Faculty Events Giving Alumni Search School Culture, Equity, and Diversity Advisory Committee Frost Unity and Diversity Committee About Us Leadership School Diversity Committee Uniquely Frost The Frost Method Ensembles Student Life Campus & Facilities COVID-19 Update Admissions Message from Dean Berg Undergraduate Graduate Visit Contact Us Programs & Degrees Programs by Department Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Frost Online Stamps Ensembles Henry Mancini Institute International Programs Community & Summer Programs Faculty Faculty by Instrument Faculty by Program Department Chairs Events Frost Music Live Event Calendar Concert Tickets Live Stream Hire a Musician Winter Wonderful Giving How to Give Donate Now Donation Form Ever Brighter Campaign Student Emergency Fund Travis Quinn Opportunity Scholarship Fund Sue Miller Fund Impact Alumni Alumni Association Distinguished Alumni Awards Score Magazine Submit Your Updates Stay Connected School Culture, Equity, and Diversity Advisory Committee Frost Unity and Diversity Committee Home About Us Letter from the Dean School Culture, Equity, and Diversity Advisory Committee AAA School Culture, Equity, and Diversity Advisory Committee School Culture, Equity, and Diversity Advisory Committee Frost Unity and Diversity Committee GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Established in January of 2019, the purpose of the School Culture, Equity, and Diversity Advisory Committee (SCED) is to consider ways in which to promote the equity and diversity of the Frost School of Music, as well as contribute to a positive academic climate and school culture. The SCED examines guidelines and procedures concerning school culture, equity, and diversity of the Frost School and make recommendations to the Frost School Council. The Frost School Council shares these recommendations with the Dean. These issues include the following: a) a culture of shared governance between Frost School Council and the Frost Administration, b) open, safe, and transparent communication among students, faculty, administration, and professional staff, c) priorities and goals concerning gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, religious affiliation, race, and disability among students, faculty, administration, and professional staff, d) training programs in school culture, equity, and diversity for administration, faculty, and staff, e) a positive working environment, including examination of salary gender equity, and musicians’ health initiatives, and f) opportunities for interdisciplinary cooperation among programs. Resources Books Articles Websites Podcasts Between the World and Me by Ta-Nehisi Coates Caste: The Origins of our Discontents by Isabel Wilkerson Dog Whistle Politics by Ian Lopez How to be an Antiracist by Ibram X. Kendi Pedagogy of the Oppressed by Paulo Freire So You Want to Talk About Race by Ijeoma Oluo Stamped from the Beginning by Ibram X. Kendi The Inner Work of Racial Justice by Rhonda V. Magee The New Jim Crow by Michelle Alexander We Were Eight Years in Power by Ta-Nehisi Coates White Fragility by Robin DiAngelo Melvin Butler - "Does Kamala Harris's Music Matter?" Giovanni Russonello - "Jazz Has Always Been Protest Music" The New York Times - 1619 Project Bartanen, Kristine. “Want to Create a Welcoming Classroom Community? Say Your Student’s Name (Correctly)” Liberal Education Blog. Oct. 22, 2021. Association of American Colleges and Universities. Read more>>> Brantmeier Ed, Andreas Broscheid, and Carl Moore. (nd) Inclusion by Design: Survey Your Syllabus, A Worksheet. Read more>>> Canning, Elizabeth A., Katherine Muenks, Dorainne J. Green, and Mary C. Murphy. 2019. “STEM Faculty Who Believe Ability Is Fixed Have Larger Racial Achievement Gaps and Inspire Less Student Motivation in Their Classes.” Science Advances 5 (2): eaau4734. Read more>>> Cohen, Geoffrey L., Claude M. Steele, and Lee D. Ross. 1999. “The Mentor’s Dilemma: Providing Critical Feedback Across the Racial Divide.” Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin 25 (10): 1302–18. Read more>>> Harwood, Stacy Anne, Moises Orozco, Shinwoo Choi, Margaret Browne Huntt, and Ruby Mendenhall. 2015. “Racial Microaggressions at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign: Voices of Student of Color in the Classroom.,” January. Read more>>> Hill, Eve, Dahlia Shaewitz, and Jessica Queener. 2020. “Higher Education’s Next Great Challenge: Ensuring Full Inclusion for Students with Disabilities.” The Higher Education Inclusion Guide. Washington, DC: Institute for Educational Leadership. Read more>>> Hogan, Kelly A., and Viji Sathy. 2020. “8 Ways to Be More Inclusive in Your Zoom Teaching.” The Chronicle of Higher Education. April 7, 2020. Read more>>> Jack, Jordynn, and Viji Sathy. 2021. “It’s Time to Cancel the Word ‘Rigor.’” The Chronicle of Higher Education. September 24, 2021. Read more>>> Lang, James M. 2020. “What I Am Learning About My Students During an Impossible Semester.” The Chronicle of Higher Education. April 1, 2020. Read more>>> Maxwell, Kelly, and Patricia Gurin. 2017. “Using Dialogue to Create Inclusive Classrooms: A Case Study from a Faculty Institute.” Liberal Education 103 (3–4). Read more>>> Miyake, Akira, Lauren E. Kost-Smith, Noah D. Finkelstein, Steven J. Pollock, Geoffrey L. Cohen, and Tiffany A. Ito. 2010. “Reducing the Gender Achievement Gap in College Science: A Classroom Study of Values Affirmation.” Science 330 (6008): 1234–37. Read more>>> Portman, Joel. “Microaggressions in the Classroom.” University of Denver, Center for Multicultural Excellence. Read more>>> Understood for All, Inc. 2019. Getting started with Universal Design for Learning (UDL). Read more>>> Wacker, Craig, and Lynn Olsen. 2019. “Teacher Mindsets: How Educators’ Perspectives Shape Student Success.” FutureEd: Georgetown University. Read here and Read more>>> Racial Equity Tools Glossary of terms Standing Committee on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion UM Human Resources We Insist NPR - Code Switch The Trilloquy Podcast hosted by Garett McQueen Committee Members Melvin Butler, co-chair Jennifer Grim, co-chair Carlos Abril, ex-officio member Timothy Conner Kevin Kenner Juraj Kojs Melissa Lesniak Jodi Levitz Brian Lynch Raina Murnak Jeanette Thompson Upcoming Events Open All Tabs Wednesday, February 9, 2022, at 7:00 pm. School Culture, Equity and Diversity Committee with the MVP Department presents: GORDON HAWKINS Baritone Gordon Hawkins has been in the spotlight as a premier opera singer for more than 40 years. Honoring Black History Month, the MVP Department along with the School Culture, Equity and Diversity (SCED) Committee is proud to present Mr. Hawkins in a conversation of the highs and lows of being in the world of classical music on Wednesday, February 9, 2022, at 7:00 pm. This virtual event is free and open to the public. Mr. Hawkins began his career singing the bel canto roles of Italian opera and drew early praise from critics proclaiming him to be “one of the most promising young singers of the decade.” Since then, Mr. Hawkins has been critically acclaimed throughout the world for his in-depth interpretations and luxuriant baritone voice. A winner of the Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions and the George London Grant recipient, he has been praised for his rich lyricism as well as his dramatic instinct. He is a winner of the Luciano Pavarotti Competition and in 2006 was honored as the Washington National Opera “Artist of the Year.” Mr. Hawkins has shared the operatic and concert stage with such distinguished artists as Placido Domingo, Mirella Freni, and Luciano Pavarotti. Today, throughout the world, he is associated with a broad range of dramatic roles and characters of the German, Italian and American operatic repertoire, from Wagner to Verdi and Gershwin. In the current season and beyond, engagements include Alberich in Der Ring des Nibelungen (Wagner) with the Deutsche Oper Berlin; Alberich in Siegfried (Wagner) at Teatro de la Maestranza in Seville, Spain; Telramund in Lohengrin (Wagner) at Deutsche Oper Berlin; Renato in Un Ballo in Maschera (Verdi) at the New Orleans Opera; Crown in Porgy and Bess (Gershwin) at Cincinnati Opera; Amonasro in Aida (Verdi) at Lyric Opera of Chicago and the Reverend in Blue, a new opera by Jeanine Tesori which features an all black cast of singers. In addition to his distinctive operatic career, Mr. Hawkins is also a dedicated educator and currently serves on the voice faculty of Arizona State University. To learn more about his impressive career, please click here. We invite you to join us with questions for an informal conversation with Mr. Hawkins. The Zoom Link follows: https://miami.zoom.us/j/91617494663 Meeting ID: 916 1749 4663 Past Events Open All Tabs February 9, 2021, 7:00 p.m. EDT Music, Memory, Monuments: A Roundtable Discussion on Historical Names and Symbols Since the killing of George Floyd on May 25, 2020, there has been a heightened awareness in the United States of racism, white supremacy, and the destructive inequalities that have long plagued our institutions of higher learning. As part of the University of Miami’s efforts to advance racial justice, President Frenk formed a special committee last fall to review the naming and/or un-naming of campus buildings and spaces. Given our understanding that racist caricatures and demeaning stereotypes were used to promote and sell Henry Fillmore’s trombone compositions, the Frost School Culture, Equity, and Diversity Advisory Committee has called for the renaming of Fillmore Band Hall, one of our School’s most utilized rehearsal spaces. But calls to rename campus buildings and the outrage over recent acts of race-related violence are not reactions to novel phenomena. Rather, these connected concerns fit within a long history of grappling with social injustices that are systemic and ongoing. This moderated roundtable discussion explores the interplay of music, memory, and monuments—a trifecta of concerns centered on music as a tool for commemorating, celebrating, and challenging complex and often problematic historical narratives. As music students, teachers, and practitioners, how might we best come to terms with musical “flags” and symbols of an inglorious past tied to canonic repertories and/or “beloved” historical figures? In light of first amendment freedoms, how do we position ourselves in relation to cultures of cancellation and/or historical “erasure”? And what pedagogical and/or performative interventions, if any, should we be making as we strive towards the ideals of diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging both in the Frost School and our broader communities? June 17, 2020, 4:00 PM EDT The first Town Hall was for current Frost students. More than 150 participated and submitted thoughtful, and provoking questions, comments, and suggestions, some of which our panel was able to respond to in real-time, and some were not able to be addressed during the time frame. However, the comments and questions are being shared throughout the faculty and staff leadership of the school who are helping to plan sustained short-term and long-term initiatives. For this, we are grateful. This town hall was initially planned for alumni only, but in a revised format we are including alumni, students, faculty, and staff. In this session, we will take our lead from alumni, as your insights, thoughts, comments, and suggestions will be invaluable to our improvement. Let us know what we can do better, and how our systems and structures can better engender trust, inclusion, and wellbeing. June 10, 2020, 4:00 PM EDT The Frost School of Music acknowledges and condemns the legacy of racism, values the dignity of all life, and stands in solidarity with the black community. We are committed to co-creating a caring, equitable, and compassionate world through sustainable long-term structures of curriculum, programming, and a culture that continues to raise awareness and learning of black lives because they matter. We support digging deep, listening deep, and understanding, followed by action. As a first step, the Frost School invites you to a private virtual town hall, Undoing Racism: Frost Listens. As the first in a series, this is exclusively for current and new Frost students. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Frost School of Music Messinger Music Executive Building 5501 San Amaro Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2241 305-284-2241 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard Toppel Career Center UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Frost Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-instagram social-twitter social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices