Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu Academics Computer Science Undergraduate Program The Computer Science curriculum is designed to offer students a great deal of flexibility. You can combine your studies with other fields, including mathematics, physics, economics, psychology, and linguistics. All undergraduates in Computer Science at Harvard are candidates for the Bachelor of Arts degree (A.B.). With the knowledge that it requires extra course work, you can consider the more intensive A.B. - S.M. option through a concurrent masters degree. A.B. in Computer Science The basic degree requirements are eleven to fourteen 4-credit courses in mathematics, theoretical computer science, computer software, and other areas of computer science. Math courses cover linear algebra, single variable calculus and probability/statistics. Students who place out of part or all of the introductory calculus sequence, Mathematics 1ab, reduce their concentration requirements to 11 courses. Computer Science Secondary Field A lightweight way of getting official recognition within Harvard for work in two fields is to do one or the other as a secondary field. For Computer Science, this involves taking 4 courses in the secondary field. Learn more about the computer science secondary field. A.B.-S.M. in Computer Science Students who are eligible for Advanced Standing on the basis of A.P. tests before entering Harvard may be able to apply for admission to the S.M. program of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and graduate in four years with both a bachelor’s and master’s degree (not necessarily in the same field). Beginning with the class of 2022, students have the opportunity to apply to the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences for a master’s degree pursued concurrently with the bachelor’s degree. As part of the concurrent degree program, students will be allowed to double-count up to sixteen credits (normally, four courses) for the Bachelor of Arts and the Master of Science. An undergraduate pursuing the concurrent degree must complete both of these degrees by the end of eight terms of residency, or the equivalent. The Mind, Brain, and Behavior Program (MBB) Students interested in addressing questions of neuroscience and cognition from the perspective of computer science may pursue a special program of study affiliated with the University-wide Mind, Brain, and Behavior Initiative, that allows them to participate in a variety of related activities. (Similar programs are available through the Anthropology, History and Science, Human Evolutionary Biology, Linguistics, Neurobiology, Philosophy, and Psychology concentrations.) Requirements for this honors-only program are based on those of the computer science Requirements for Honors Eligibility. See the handbook entry for more information and also Frequently Asked Questions about the MBB Track. This is an honors track program: students are eligible for English Honors. Main navigation Information For In Computer Science Undergraduate Program First-Year Exploration Concentration Information Secondary Field Advising Research Opportunities Senior Thesis Careers AB/SM Information Graduate Program How to Apply PhD Timeline PhD Overview and Requirements PhD Course Requirements Qualifying Exam Committee Meetings (Review Days) Committee on Higher Degrees AB/SM Information Faculty & Research People Courses Colloquia Clubs & Organizations Centers & Initiatives Alumni Stories Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy