Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of the Arts Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Contact Dean's Message Facilities Visitor Information Students Show Extended Advising (Current Students) Advising and Registration (New Students) Assistant Dean for Student Affairs First Generation College Students Get Involved! Scholarships Student Success Center University Catalogue (2022-2023) Events & Visitor Information Show Extended PERFORMANCES & EXHIBITIONS College of the Arts Events & Activities Calendar Grand Central Art Center Exhibitions Digital Program Booklets BOX OFFICE & VISITOR INFORMATION Clayes Performing Arts Center Box Office Visitor Information Alumni Spotlights & Arts Titans in the News Show Extended Alumni: Share Your Story! Featured Alumni Titan of Tassel Titan of Winds Arts Titans in the News Art Dance Music Theatre Nicholas & Lee Begovich Gallery Grand Central Art Center Support Groups Show Extended Art Alliance Alliance for the Performing Arts/MAMM Music Associates Donate Now Purchase Tickets Get Connected College of the Arts Scholarships College of the Arts scholarships have been established to support students majoring in dance, music, theatre, and visual arts. The online Scholarship Application opens on January 4, 2022 and closes on March 3, 2022. Please read the important information below: Scholarships are available to incoming and continuing students who will be enrolled in the full 2022-2023 academic year (fall 2022 and spring 2023 semesters). Priority consideration will be given to students with less than 132 completed cumulative units. Review instructions for each scholarship and details regarding personal statements, letters of recommendation, and other required materials. Incomplete and late applications will not be considered. Faculty nominated scholarships are awarded based on exceptional achievement, academic performance, and service. Scholarship recipients must be in good academic standing and in good standing with the University. Unless otherwise noted, scholarships will be awarded in two disbursements, one in the fall semester and one in the spring semester. Only the awarded scholarship recipient will receive a notification by May 1. CSUF and CSU System-Wide Scholarships College of the Arts: Dean's Office Scholarships BARBARA PAIGE SCHOLARSHIP FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS Amount: $1,000 (4 recipients) Established By: Scholarship is offered through a gift from Barbara Paige, to support students in the performing arts. Open To: This scholarship is open to students who have declared a theatre, dance or music major. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will open the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 DR. CAROL CHANNING AND MR. HARRY KULLIJIAN ARTS SCHOLARSHIP Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established By: This endowed scholarship was established by Dr. Carol Channing and Mr. Harry Kullijian to honor the legacy of Dr. Carol Channing’s six decades in a performing arts career and to encourage academic excellence in the arts. Open To: This scholarship is open to students who have declared a visual art, theatre, dance, or music major. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will open the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 DEAN’S SCHOLARSHIP Amount: $1,000 (4 recipients) Established By: The Dean of the College of the Arts, to recognize excellence and creativity. Open To: This scholarship is open to students who have declared a visual art, theatre, dance or music major. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will open the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 JOSEPH A.W. CLAYES III PERFORMING ARTS SCHOLARSHIP Amount: $1,000 (3 recipients) Established By: Scholarship is offered through an estate gift from alumnus and benefactor Joseph A.W. Clayes III. Open To: This scholarship is open to students who have declared a theatre, dance or music major. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will open the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 KATHRYN T. MCCARTY SCHOLARSHIP Amount: $1,000 (3 recipients) Established By: Scholarship is offered through an estate gift by Fullerton community leader and patron, Kathryn T. McCarty. Open To: This scholarship is open to students who have declared a theatre, dance or music major. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will open the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 MCGARVEY FAMILY SCHOLARSHIP Amount: $1,000 (8 recipients) Established By: Scholarship is offered through a gift from Fullerton business and community leader, the late William J. McGarvey. Open To: This scholarship is open to students who have declared a major in the College of the Arts. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will open the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 VAUGHNCILLE JOSEPH MENG SCHOLARSHIP Amount: $1,000 (3 recipients) Established By: Scholarship is offered through an estate gift from long-time Fullerton resident, patron, educator, and accomplished pianist, Vaughncille “Vonnie” Meng. Open To: This scholarship is open to students who have declared a theatre, dance or music major. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will return you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 JERRY SAMUELSON SCHOLARSHIP FOR THE ARTS Amount: $1,000 (4 recipients) Established By: Scholarship is established in honor of Emeritus Professor and former Dean of the College of the Arts, Dr. Jerry Samuelson, to recognize outstanding students in the College of the Arts as Jerry Samuelson Scholars. Open To: This scholarship is open to students who have declared a major in the College of the Arts. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will return you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 COLLEGE OF THE ARTS: DEAN’S OFFICE SCHOLARSHIPS (FACULTY NOMINATED) LEO FREEDMAN FOUNDATION MFA SCHOLARSHIP Amount: $5,000 per year/ up to $15,000 for 3 years (3 recipients) Established By: This scholarship is funded by the Leo Freedman Foundation to recognize and support students enrolled in a Master of Fine Arts (MFA) program in the College of the Arts. Open To: This scholarship is open to new or continuing students enrolled in an MFA program. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission, enrollment and by faculty nomination. Application Deadline: N/A Visual Arts Art Alliance Florence Millner Arnold Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (2 recipients) Established by: This scholarship was established by the Art Alliance to recognize creative achievement. Open to: This scholarship is open to continuing Bachelor of Fine Arts students in drawing, painting, illustration, and printmaking. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 2.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: Part 1: Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) Part 2: Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. Part 3: Submit single PDF file of art work; file must contain no more than six images on six separate pages; and below each image, provide the image number, title, size of work, medium, and date of completion. Upload file to Scholarship Application. Title files “Your Last Name_First Name" Application Deadline: March 3 Art Alliance John and Flora Olsen Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (2 recipients) Established by: This scholarship was established by the Art Alliance to recognize creative achievement. Open to: This scholarship is open to students majoring in ceramics, crafts, or graphic design. Criteria: Full – time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 2.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: Part 1: Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) Part 2: Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. Part 3: Submit single PDF file of art work; file must contain no more than six images on six separate pages; and below each image, provide the image number, title, size of work, medium, and date of completion. Upload file to Scholarship Application. Title files “Your Last Name_First Name" Application Deadline: March 3 Art Alliance Myrt Purkiss Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (3 recipients) Established by: This scholarship was established by the Art Alliance to recognize creative achievement. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming first-time or continuing freshman (0-29 completed units) Visual Arts majors. Criteria: Full-time enrollment ♦ Good academic standing 2.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: Part 1: Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) Part 2: Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. Part 3: Submit single PDF file of art work; file must contain no more than six images on six separate pages; and below each image, provide the image number, title, size of work, medium, and date of completion. Upload file to Scholarship Application. Title files “Your Last Name_First Name" Application Deadline: March 3 Art Alliance Scholarship for Junior Transfers Amount: $1,000 (3 recipients) Established by: This scholarship was established by the Art Alliance to recognize creative achievement. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming community college transfer Visual Arts students. Criteria: Full-time Enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing ♦ Transfer student Application Procedure: Part 1: Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) Part 2: Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. Part 3: Submit single PDF file of art work; file must contain no more than six images on six separate pages; and below each image, provide the image number, title, size of work, medium, and date of completion. Upload file to Scholarship Application. Title files “Your Last Name_First Name" Application Deadline: March 3 Art Alliance Tribute Fund Graduate Grants Amount: $1,000 (2 recipients) Established by: This scholarship was established by the Art Alliance to recognize creative achievement. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming or continuing Visual Arts MA or MFA students. Criteria: Full-time enrollment ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: Part 1: Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) Part 2: Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. Part 3: Submit single PDF file of art work; file must contain no more than six images on six separate pages; and below each image, provide the image number, title, size of work, medium, and date of completion (provide same information for motion files). Studio artists and museum studies students submit single JPEG images within a single PDF file. Motion work should be submitted as a QuickTime file. Art historians must submit a one-page abstract of a recent research paper. All applicants must submit a one-page proposal describing how the funds will assist you in your artistic development. Upload files to Scholarship Application. Title files “Your Last Name_First Name" Application Deadline: March 3 The Darryl Curran Creative Photography Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established by: Darryl Curran, Art Department Emeriti faculty member. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming or continuing undergraduate art majors in the creative photography program. Preference will be given to students who have financial need. Scholarships are available to students who will be enrolled in the full 2022-2023 academic year. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: 1) Log into your CSUF portal and click on the “Scholarships” button. Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 2) Submit single PDF file of art work; file must contain no more than six images on six separate pages; and below each image, provide the image number, title, size of work, medium, and date of completion. Upload file to Scholarship Application. Title files “Your Last Name_First Name. 3) Complete a FAFSA application (or have one on-file) for establishing financial need (Free Application for Federal Student Aid). Kalota Scholarship for Glass Studies Amount: $2,500 (4 recipients) Established By: This scholarship was established by Robin and Steve Kalota. Open to: This scholarship is open to continuing students pursuing a Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Fine Arts in Art with focused studies in the glass discipline. Scholarships are available to students who will be enrolled in the full 2022-2023 academic year. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 2.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: 1) Log into your CSUF portal and click on the “Scholarships” button. Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 2) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 3) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Leslie Peter & Norma Evelyn Johnson Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established By: Established by Emeritus Professor Larry Johnson in memory of his parents Leslie Peter and Norma Evelyn Johnson, to recognize demonstrated excellence in Illustration and to support an undergraduate student with the potential for professional accomplishment in the field of illustrative arts. Open To: This scholarship is open to seniors (90+ units) completing a BFA in illustration. Emphasis is placed on excellence in drawing. Scholarships are available to students who will be enrolled in the full 2022-2023 academic year. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 2.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: 1) Log into your CSUF portal and click on the “Scholarships” button. Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 2) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 3) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Mike Williams Scholarship for Illustration/Animation Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established By: Annual scholarship established to recognize alumnus Mike Williams. Open To: This scholarship is open to continuing students completing a Bachelor of Fine Arts or Master of Fine Arts in Entertainment Art/Animation, or Illustration. Scholarships are available to students who will be enrolled in the full 2022-2023 academic year. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.0 minimum GPA. Application Procedure: 1) Log into your CSUF portal and click on the “Scholarships” button. Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 2) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 3) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Rose Sullivan and Rebecca Morales Memorial Scholarship Amount: $500 (2 recipients) Established By: Annual scholarship established by Ed and Sue Sullivan in memory of Ed’s mother, Rose Sullivan, and Sue's mother, Rebecca Morales. Rose Sullivan and Rebecca Morales both had great interests in the arts - Rose in glass and crafts and Rebecca in jewelry making. Open To: This scholarship is open to continuing students majoring in the visual arts, with an emphasis in glass. Scholarships are available to students who will be enrolled in the full 2022-2023 academic year. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: 1) Log into your CSUF portal and click on the “Scholarships” button. Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 2) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 3) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Thomas Miller Memorial Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established By: Annual scholarship established by Carl and Patty Miller in honor of their son Thomas G. Miller to offer support, encouragement and financial assistance to a student with strong artistic ability who is committed to a career in visual art. Open To: This scholarship is open to incoming or continuing undergraduate students majoring in visual arts. Scholarships are available to students who will be enrolled in the full 2022-2023 academic year. Criteria: Full-time Enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: 1) Log into your CSUF portal and click on the “Scholarships” button. Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 2) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 3) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 VISUAL ARTS – FACULTY NOMINATED Millie & Dale Hallberg Award Amount: $1,000-$6,000 Established by: This award was established by Dale M. Hallberg to recognize demonstrated excellence in visual arts students, and primarily sculpture students, with superior academic achievement, active community service, and commendable personal behavior. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming and continuing Visual Arts Master of Arts and Master of Fine Arts graduate students and undergraduate sculpture students. Scholarships are available to students who will be enrolled in the full 2022-2023 academic year. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission, enrollment and by faculty nomination. Application Deadline: N/A Music Anne Ludmila Kruzic Music Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (10 recipients) Established By: This scholarship was established with a gift from the estate of Anne Ludmila Kruzic, an alumna of the School of Music. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming or continuing undergraduate student enrolled in a course of study in the School of Music. Students will demonstrate their community and civic involvement in their application and its relationship to their course of study, and future intentions. Preference will be given to students who have financial need. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement that demonstrates community and civic involvement. 4) Complete a FAFSA application (or have one on-file) for establishing financial need (Free Application for Federal Student Aid). 5) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your community or civic involvement, creative achievement, or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 David Thorsen Endowed Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (1 recipients) Established By: To provide an award to a student who intends to become a choral conductor. Open to: This scholarship is open to undergraduate or graduate students who intend to become choral conductors. Criteria: Full-time Enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay detailing passion for or personal achievement in choral conducting, or aspirations to become a choral conductor. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 THE BOB AND TERRI NICCUM NEW MUSIC SCHOLARSHIP Amount: $1,000 (1recipient) Established by: This scholarship was established by Titan alumni Bob and Terri Niccum. Open to: This scholarship is open to undergraduate or graduate students who are Music majors participating in the New Music Ensemble. Candidates must display a focus on performance, creativity and service to the New Music ensemble. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 CHELSEA JOY KASHERGEN SCHOLARSHIP FOR JAZZ CLARINET Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established By: Annual Scholarship established in memory of Chelsea Joy Kashergen. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming or continuing music majors participating in a jazz ensemble. Primary consideration will be given to a talented musician who plays clarinet as their primary instrument, or who doubles well on the clarinet. Secondary consideration will be given to a talented musician who demonstrates a commitment to adding jazz clarinet to their range of performance skills. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing ♦ Participation in a jazz ensemble Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 ELLIOT & KATHLEEN ALEXANDER SCHOLARSHIP Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established By: This scholarship was established by John Alexander, CSUF Emeritus faculty member and Pacific Chorale Artistic Director Emeritus, in honor of his parents Elliot and Kathleen. Open to: This scholarship is open to continuing undergraduate or graduate students pursing a music degree with a concentration in choral conducting. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 2.0 minimum GPA ♦ Demonstrated talent and service to the choral program. Application Procedure: 1) Log into your CSUF portal and click on the “Scholarships” button. Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 2) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 3) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Frank Wells Scholarship for Student Teachers Amount: $1,000 (each for 2 student recipients) Established By: This scholarship was established by Ann and Thad Sandford. Ann’s Grandfather, Frank Wells, was a farmer in Arkansas in the early 1900's who had a natural music talent for "shape singing". Frank shared his talent by visiting churches in his community and teaching that method to others. This scholarship and the potential it has for furthering knowledge and enjoyment of music is dedicated to Frank and his legacy. Open to: This scholarship is open to vocal students studying Music Education, who are entering the certification phase in preparing for a career in Music Education. The scholarship will start in the first term that students are eligible to begin their student teaching credentialing year. Dedication to the development of music enjoyment for young people; displayed leadership skills in extracurricular actives; shown willingness to work toward a significant portion of his/her living expenses. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 2.0 minimum GPA ♦ Music Education major entering certification phase Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Julie Christy Rhythm & Harmony Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (9 recipients) Established By: This scholarship was established by College of the Arts Alumna Julie Christie. Open to: This scholarship is open to students in a choral ensemble. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 2.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Mr. and Mrs. James V. Henriques Scholarship for Excellence in Composition Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established By: This scholarship was established by School of Music alumnus James Henriques in honor of his parents. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming or continuing students studying composition. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 MUSIC - FACULTY NOMINATED Alicia de Larrocha Scholarship (Keyboard) Amount: $500 (1 recipient) Established by: This scholarship was established by the donor to recognize demonstrated excellence in music performance and to support students with the potential for professional performance in music. Scholarship amounts range from modest assistance for one year to full-fee awards for four years. Open to: This scholarship is open to new music major students who are pursuing undergraduate or graduate degrees in piano performance. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission to the School of Music, enrollment, and by faculty nomination. Application Deadline: N/A Carol K. Wise Endowed Scholarship Amount: $500 (1 recipient) Established By: For a School of Music student majoring in voice and participating in the University Singers. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming and continuing students majoring in voice and participating in the University Singers; open to undergraduate and graduate students. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing ♦ Voice concentration Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission to the School of Music, enrollment, and by faculty nomination. Application Deadline: N/A ELLA AND LOUIS SCHOLARSHIP FOR JAZZ Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established by: Dr. Michael Horn to recognize jazz legends Ella Fitzgerald and Louis Armstrong. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming freshman or continuing School of Music majors, pursing a concentration in Jazz and Commercial Studies, and demonstrating a talent in the area of jazz music performance. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission to the School of Music, enrollment, and by faculty nomination. Application Deadline: N/A Frank & Jean Raymond Scholarship for Clarinet Amount: $5,000 (4 recipients) Established By: This scholarship was established by Frank and Jean Raymond. Open to: This scholarship is open to students with a concentration in clarinet performance. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 2.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission to the School of Music, enrollment, and by faculty nomination. Application Deadline: N/A Garrabrant Memorial Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established By: This scholarship was established by friends and family of Mark Garrabrant, former Professor of Trumpet at CSUF. Open to: This scholarship is open to students in an instrumental ensemble. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 2.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission to the School of Music, enrollment, and by faculty nomination. Application Deadline: N/A Gertrude Hauser Graf Endowed Scholarship in Keyboard Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established By: This scholarship was established by patron of the arts, Elaine M. Redfield, to honor her mother, Gertrude Hauser Graf. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming or continuing students majoring in keyboard and is open to undergraduate and graduate students. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing ♦ Keyboard concentration Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission to the School of Music, enrollment, and by faculty nomination. Application Deadline: N/A Håkan Rosengren & Katherine Powers Endowed Scholarship for Clarinet Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established By: This scholarship was established by Professor Håkan Rosengren and Dr. Katherine Powers . Open to: This scholarship is open to continuing students whose principal instrument is the clarinet. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission to the School of Music, enrollment, and by faculty nomination. Application Deadline: N/A Jeffrey and Andrea Sward Double Reed Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established By: This scholarship was established by the donors to honor and recognize exceptional musical achievement. The School of Music faculty and Director make recipient selection. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming or continuing students pursuing a Bachelor of Music performance with a concentration in oboe or bassoon. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing ♦ Excellence in oboe or bassoon performance Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission to the School of Music, enrollment, and by faculty and Director nomination. Application Deadline: N/A Joan Marie Ramos Memorial for Classical Guitar Performance Amount: $500 (1 recipient) Established By: This scholarship was established by School of Music alumnus Jim Henriques in memory of former student Joan Marie Ramos. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming or continuing students studying classical guitar. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission to the School of Music, enrollment, and by faculty nomination. Application Deadline: N/A John Alexander Scholarship for Choral Conducting Amount: $5,000 Established By: This scholarship was established by an anonymous donor Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming first year graduate students in the Master of Music in choral conducting. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing ♦ Graduate student studying choral conducting Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission to the School of Music, enrollment, and by faculty nomination. Application Deadline: N/A Johnny Carson Scholarship for Jazz Amount: Varies Established By: Annual scholarships provided by the Johnny Carson Foundation to recruit and retain talented students in the Jazz and Commercial Studies program. Open To: This scholarship is open to incoming and continuing students pursuing a Bachelors in Music with a concentration in Jazz and Commercial Music. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing ♦ Concentration in Jazz and Commercial Music Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission to the School of Music, enrollment, and by faculty nomination. Application Deadline: N/A Joseph W. Landon and Sibyl H. Landon Memorial Grant (strings) Amount: Varies Established By: This scholarship was endowed through an estate gift made by Emeritus Professor Dr. Joseph W. Landon and Mrs. Sibyl Landon. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming or continuing string students in the School of Music pursuing an undergraduate or graduate degree in music. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing ♦ String concentration Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission to the School of Music, enrollment, and by faculty nomination. Application Deadline: N/A Music Associates Scholarships (all areas) Amount: Varies Established by: This scholarship was established by the donor to recognize demonstrated excellence in music performance and to support students with the potential for professional performance in music. Scholarship amounts range from modest assistance for one year to full-fee awards for four years. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming music major students. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission to the School of Music, enrollment, and by faculty nomination. Application Deadline: N/A Sharlet Wolford Scholarship (all areas) Amount: $5,000 (1 recipient) Established by: This scholarship was established by the donor to recognize demonstrated excellence in music performance and to support students with the potential for professional performance in music. Note: The amount of the award shall be the full amount of University fees for six or more units, in effect at the time the award is offered. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming music major students who are pursuing undergraduate or graduate degrees. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission to the School of Music, enrollment, and by faculty nomination. Application Deadline: N/A Theodore M. Dykzeul Scholarship in Jazz Amount: $1,000 Established By: This scholarship was established by MaryLouise and Edward Hlavac. MaryLouise’s father, Theodore M. Dykzeul, introduced her to jazz and instilled a love of the music in her that has continued and deepened throughout her life. MaryLouise is a proud and very active Titan alumna, and she and her husband enjoy Jazz and the Jazz Studies program in the School of Music. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming and continuing full-time undergraduate students studying Jazz and Commercial Music, and pursuing Jazz performance. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing ♦ Jazz Vocal or Instrumental major Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission to the School of Music, enrollment, and by faculty nomination. Application Deadline: N/A WILLARD & VIRGINIA DICKEY INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC EDUCATION STUDENT TEACHER SCHOLARSHIP Amount: $1,000 Established by: Dr. Marc Dickey, Professor of Music in the CSUF School of Music, in honor of his parents who were both orchestral musicians and always supportive of his endeavors, musical and otherwise. Open to: This scholarship is open to students studying Instrumental Music Education, who are entering the credentialing phase in preparation for a career in Music Education. Students who exude qualities suggesting likely success in the profession of public-school instrumental music education. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 2.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: Awarded upon admission to the School of Music, enrollment, and by faculty nomination. Application Deadline: N/A Theatre and Dance Alvin Keller Excellence in Theatre Scholarship Amount: $750 (1 recipient) Established by: This scholarship was established by the students of Dr. Alvin Keller to recognize excellence in anyone area: acting, directing, dance, design, technical theatre or stage management. Open to: This scholarship is open to continuing graduate and undergraduate theatre and dance majors. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.25 minimum GPA ♦ Record of significant creative achievement and excellence in any one area of acting, directing, dance, design, technical theatre or stage management ♦ Demonstrates financial need Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Complete a FAFSA application (or have one on-file) for establishing financial need (Free Application for Federal Student Aid). 5) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 The Dwight Richard Odle Memorial Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (2recipients) Established by: This scholarship was established by Dwight Richard Odle, emeriti faculty member of Theatre & Dance (1967 to 1980). Richard made a gift to name the Clayes Performing Arts box office. He was also a dedicated volunteer, serving as a board member on the MAMM Alliance support group for the College of the Arts. Open to: This scholarship is open to undergraduate or graduate student in the areas of costume design or scenic design. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 2.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Joe and Voiza Arnold Transfer Student Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (4 recipients) Established by: This scholarship was established in honor of Dr. Joe and Dr. Voiza Arnold, to support students who have transferred from a community college. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming and continuing transfer students who are pursuing an undergraduate degree, with any emphasis from the Department of Theatre and Dance. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing ♦ Transfer student Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Kennedy-Zeballos Scholarship in Technical Theatre Amount: $1,000 (2 recipients) Established by: This scholarship was established by Theatre & Dance Professor Abel Zeballos, to recognize and honor students who have demonstrated outstanding contributions to the Department of Theatre and Dance in the area of design and technical theatre. Open to: This scholarship is open to continuing theatre or dance major students with an emphasis in Design and Technical Theatre and who demonstrate creative achievement. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 2.0 minimum GPA ♦ Evidence of creative achievement ♦ Demonstrates financial need ♦ Emphasis in design and technical theatre who demonstrate creative achievement. Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Complete a FAFSA application (or have one on-file) for establishing financial need (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) 5) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Leland and Marlita Bellot Graduate Scholarship in Theatre Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established by: This scholarship was established by Leland and Marlita Bellot. Dr. Leland Bellot is a Professor Emeritus of History at Cal State Fullerton and has been connected to the university for more than 40 years. The scholarship is to support a graduate student in Department of Theatre & Dance, including Musical Theatre. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming and continuing graduate students. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Shaw Theatre Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established by: This scholarship was established by Dixie Shaw to support incoming students in the Department of Theatre & Dance, who are graduating high school seniors of the Placentia Unified School District, and who have theatre/dance training. Open to: This scholarship is open to students graduating from the Placentia Unified School District with theatre/dance training, who are pursuing a major in the Department of Theatre & Dance. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Theatre Only Brite Ideas by Greg & Julie Christy Scholarship for Lighting Design Amount: $1,000 Established by: This scholarship was established by Greg and Julie Christy to benefit a lighting design student, graduate or undergraduate. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming and continuing technical theatre and design major students who are pursuing an undergraduate or graduate degree with an emphasis in lighting design. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.0 minimum GPA ♦ Emphasis in lighting design Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Gretchen Kanne Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established by: This scholarship was established by Gretchen Kanne, Emeritus Professor of Theatre to recognize and honor students who demonstrate outstanding acting ability. Open to: This scholarship is open to continuing senior or graduate acting major students who are pursuing an undergraduate or a graduate degree. Criteria: Full-time Enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.0 minimum GPA ♦ Acting major Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Jerry and Merilyn Goodwin Musical Theatre Scholarship Amount: $1,000 Established by: This scholarship was established to recognize and honor students who have demonstrated outstanding performance in musical theatre. Open to: This scholarship is open to continuing musical theatre students pursuing a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Jose Quintero Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established by: This scholarship was established by the Theatre and Dance Department in memory of Jose Quintero to recognize excellence in directing, acting, design or playwriting. Open to: This scholarship is open to continuing theatre major students who are pursuing an undergraduate or graduate degree. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Judy and Dan Byrnes Musical Theatre Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (2 recipients) Established by: This scholarship was established by Judith M. Byrnes, emeritus member of Cal State Fullerton, to support a student in the musical theatre program of the Department of Theatre & Dance. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming and continuing students in the musical theatre department. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing ♦ Musical Theatre major Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Sallie Mitchell Endowed Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established by: This scholarship was established by Sallie Mitchell, Emeritus Professor of Theatre and Former Chair. Open to: This scholarship is open to continuing undergraduate students pursuing a theatre education degree. Criteria: Full-time Enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.0 minimum GPA ♦ Theatre education major Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Dr. James D. and Dorothy R. Young Founder’s Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (2 recipients) Established by: This scholarship was established by Dr. James D. and Dorothy R. Young to recognize a student who has made the most improvement in voice and movement in a performance. Recipient selection will be determined by the voice and movement faculty of the department. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming and continuing theatre major students, with a preference given to theatre students who are pursuing an undergraduate or graduate degree and who demonstrates improvement in voice and movement. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 SchoolsFirst FCU Musical Theatre Scholarship Amount: $3,500 Established by: This scholarship was established by SchoolsFirst Federal Credit Union, to support a student enrolled pursuing a BFA in Musical Theatre, in the Department of Theatre & Dance. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming and continuing students in the musical theatre. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing ♦ Musical Theatre major Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Dance Only Brian Sepel Memorial Dance Scholarship Amount: $1,000 Established by: This scholarship was established by the Theatre and Dance Department in memory of Dance Accompanist Brain Sepel to recognize excellence in dance choreography or performance. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming or continuing dance major students who are pursuing an undergraduate dance degree and who demonstrate dance talent, a commitment to a career in dance, and a strong artistic ability. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 2.5 minimum GPA ♦ Demonstrated dance talent ♦ Commitment to career in dance ♦ Strong artistic ability Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Christine Lyon Rhoades Scholarship in Dance Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established by: This scholarship was established by dance alum Christine Lyon Rhoades to recognize excellence in dance performance or choreography by a student with a commitment to a career in dance. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming or continuing full-time dance major students who are pursuing an undergraduate dance degree and who demonstrate dance talent, a commitment to a career in dance, and a strong artistic ability. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing 3.0 minimum GPA Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 GLADYS KARES SCHOLARSHIP IN DANCE Amount : $1,000 Established by: This scholarship was established by Dance Professor Gladys Kares to recognize and honor students in the Department of Theatre and Dance who have demonstrated outstanding potential in the area of dance choreography. Open to: This scholarship is open to dance major students who demonstrate evidence of creative achievement. Criteria: Full-time enrollment ♦ Good academic standing 2.0 minimum GPA ♦ Evidence of creative achievement ♦ Demonstrates financial need Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page. Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Complete a FAFSA application (or have one on-file) for establishing financial need (Free Application for Federal Student Aid). 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 Really Groovy Dance Scholarship Amount: $1,000 (1 recipient) Established by: This scholarship was established by alumni Carey L. and Ilene Shafer, for a student with strong artistic ability and commitment to a career in dance. Open to: This scholarship is open to incoming or continuing dance major students who are pursuing an undergraduate or a graduate degree. Criteria: Full-time enrollment at CSUF ♦ Good academic standing Application Procedure: 1) Visit the Scholarship page (it will first take you to your CSUF portal login) 2) Log into your CSUF portal and it will take you to the Scholarship page . Follow the onscreen instructions and complete the Scholarship Application. 3) Write an essay or personal statement of achievement. 4) Optional: Provide one letter of recommendation from someone who can speak to your creative achievement or academic potential. Application Deadline: March 3 This site is maintained by College of the Arts. Last Published 4/4/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact jbussell@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.