Skip to main content SMU SMU Ignited Menu Search Students Here we go, Mustangs! Meet some of our May graduates making the most of their degrees and new opportunities to shape our world’s future. Let’s go! SMU and Dallas – where you can go all in on you Unleash your potential in a vibrant community that uniquely positions you for limitless opportunities. The optimistic outlook of Dallas is at the heart of SMU, and our enterprising spirit has helped shape Dallas into a global gateway for people of all backgrounds who want to change the world. Quick Links Undergraduate Admission Financial Assistance Application Deadlines FAQs Graduate Admission Research SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow SMU’s vibrant campus lies in the heart of Dallas. With Dallas as your classroom, get excited about how far you can go when you go all in! Visit SMU Apply to SMU Areas of study Accounting Arts Biochemistry ChemistryCreative Computing Dance Engineering History Human Rights International Studies Journalism Mathematics Music Physics Political Science PsychologyTheatre View all Majors & Minors Video Campus Tour with Students Ian and Abby Join SMU Admission Ambassadors Ian Perkins-Smith and Abby Johnson as they tour the SMU campus. Featured tour stops include the Boulevard, Gerald J. Ford Stadium, the Laura Lee Blanton Building, Dallas Hall and Fondren Library. Pony Up! You Belong Here See why applying to SMU is the first step in making your college experience one that defines your future success. Top 20% SMU ranked in the “Best National Universities” in the 2022 edition of U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Colleges”. 3 out of 4 3 out of every 4 undergraduate students receive scholarships and/or financial aid. With plenty of financial aid options available, 72% of students graduate without any student debt at all. #1 The Dallas area was named best big city for jobs by Forbes. SMU integrates internships and experiential learning opportunities outside of the classroom so that you build experience before applying for a job. News Academic Leader Robin Poston to Join SMU as Dean of Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Robin Suzanne Poston, vice provost and dean of the Graduate School at the University of Memphis, has been named dean of SMU’s Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies and associate provost for graduate education. She will assume her position at SMU on Monday, Aug. 15. SMU remembers renowned SMU alumnus Chester John “Don” Donnally, Jr. ’67, ’68 SMU mourns the loss of Chester John “Don” Donnally, Jr. ’67, ’68, who passed away at his home on May 15, 2022. Donnally is remembered as a longtime supporter of SMU, a leader in the financial services industry for more than four decades and a nationally recognized member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE) fraternity, which he served through active fundraising and mentorship efforts for over 50 years. His contributions and dedication to SAE led to the construction and ongoing success of the SAE House on SMU’s campus. Future-focused change SMU is celebrating the future of the Cox School of Business and its role as a driver of Dallas innovation, breaking ground May 6, 2022 on a $140 million renovation and expansion project designed to train students for a collaborative and technologically integrated world. ‘Access SMU’ Scholarships to Cover the Cost of College for Texas’ Highest Performing Students From Families With Limited Incomes SMU Program to close financial gaps for academically gifted Pell Grant recipients. Making new strides with Washburne Soccer and Track Stadium Ushering in an exciting new addition to the Hilltop and Mustang Athletics, SMU celebrated the dedication of the new Washburne Soccer and Track Stadium on April 8, 2022. Led by a principal gift from Ray W. Washburne ’84 and Heather H. Washburne, the stadium was made possible by the University’s Mustang fans, generous donors and spirited alumni. View all news Events The international Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: “Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times" May 19-21 The international Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics will be held at SMU and the Dallas Holocaust and Human Rights Museum in Dallas May 19-21, 2022. The theme of the Lectures is “Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times." Sponsors include SMU's Perkins School of Theology and Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility. Learn more. Exhibits Narrative as Reality: A World Reimagined February 18 through May 22 Selections from the Jessica and Kelvin Beachum Family Collection Murillo: Picturing the Prodigal Son February 20 through June 12, 2022 Six canvases by Sevillian artist Bartolomé Esteban Murillo (1617–1682) will travel to the United States for the first time to be featured at the Meadows Museum, their only venue in this country. Learn more Liberty & Laughter: The Lighter Side of the White House March 3 through December 31, 2022 Glimpse behind-the-scenes into the lighter side of life in the White House. At the George W. Bush Presidential Center. View more events Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour Academics Overview Majors and Minors Libraries SMU Research Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development The Guildhall Student Life Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life SMU and Dallas Virtual Tour About About SMU Administration Annual Report Core Values Diversity and Inclusion Maps and Directions Mission Statement Strategic Plan News Events Athletics Research Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search