Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University GSAS Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded I am a... Degree Programs Student Guide Graduate Life Our Community Blog Prospective Student Current Student Faculty & Staff Alumna / Alumnus Admissions MA Programs PhD Programs Coronavirus Information for GSAS Students Financing Your Education New Student Guide Policy Handbook Research Teaching The Dissertation Career Development Convocation Diversity and Inclusion GSAS Writing Studio Graduate Student Center Student Life & Well-Being Alumni Network Dean’s Welcome GSAS at a Glance History Publications Staff Contact Us GSAS You are here: Home Our Community Alumni Network Alumni Network The GSAS alumni community is a worldwide network of more than 40,000 individuals, united across departments and degrees by their shared Columbia graduate experience. Columbia's Graduate School is one of the oldest in the country, and your degree makes you an integral part of this institution. GSAS alumni have a number of ways to stay connected with one another and with current students. Please write to the GSAS Office of Alumni Relations at [email protected] with any questions. Expand all Collapse all GSAS Alumni Association Students become members of the GSAS Alumni Association automatically upon receipt of a postgraduate degree from Columbia University. The GSAS Alumni Association offers regular programs and events for alumni. Click here to learn more about how you can stay connected to GSAS. The GSAS Alumni Association is governed by a board of directors. The board strives to enhance the GSAS student and alumni experience by developing the alumni network across the professions and promoting development efforts. Click here to learn more about the board. The board’s work is divided between a series of committees. Click here to learn more about the committees and their responsibilities. Giving to GSAS The generosity of GSAS alumni has always been vital to the fulfillment of the school’s responsibility to take Columbia graduate education and graduate student life to new heights. Learn more about giving and make a gift to GSAS today to support future fellow alumni. GSAS Alumni Newsletter The monthly GSAS e-newsletter features inspiring student and alumni news, exciting opportunities for GSAS graduates, upcoming Alumni Association events and programs, and more. To subscribe, please email [email protected]. Columbia Alumni Association As a graduate of Columbia University, you are part of a global network of more than 320,000 alumni. All university alumni are represented by the Columbia Alumni Association (CAA). Click here to learn more about the CAA and the activities and opportunities it offers. Online Columbia Alumni Community Connect with fellow Columbia alumni by joining the online Alumni Community, which allows you to: Search for alumni by name, graduation year, and industry, and message them directly Join groups to engage with alumni from your discipline or who share your professional and personal interests Post job opportunities, class notes, and updates on your profile or in groups Update your contact information and email preferences ColumbiaYou Share your story at ColumbiaYou—a collective memoir of how the university has changed lives, introduced mentors, sparked ideas, and launched careers—and search for alumni stories by school, topic, location, and more. Volunteer Opportunities Various volunteer opportunities are available through the Columbia Alumni Association. Get involved becoming a social media ambassador, by sharing your opinions through Alumni Voices, and more. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences109 Low Memorial Library, MC 4306, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-8903 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close