Search Search Content: Search Close Giving Methods of Giving Planned Giving Gift Matching President's Associates Thousands Strong Faculty, Staff & Retiree Giving Memorial and Honorary Giving Establish or Support a Fund Creating an Endowment OU Foundation Endowment Opportunities OU Norman Christopher C. Gibbs College of Architecture Dodge Family College of Arts and Sciences College of Atmospheric and Geographic Sciences Michael F. Price College of Business Mewbourne College of Earth and Energy Jeannine Rainbolt College of Education Gallogly College of Engineering Weitzenhoffer Family College of Fine Arts Honors College David L. Boren College of International Studies Gaylord College of Journalism and Mass Communication OU College of Law College of Professional and Continuing Studies OU Health Sciences Center College of Allied Health College of Dentistry College of Medicine Fran and Earl Ziegler College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Hudson College of Public Health OU-Tulsa Bedlam Clinics School of Community Medicine Centers of Excellence Harold Hamm Diabetes Center Stephenson Cancer Center Oklahoma Children's Hospital Athletics Communities & Traditions Pride of Oklahoma Fred Jones Jr. Museum of Art ROTC University Libraries Sooner Parents Student Support Impact Stories of Impact Student Stories Faculty Stories Donor Stories Impact Newsletter Sooner Magazine Giving Societies President's Associates OU Quarter Century Club Seed Sower Society George Lynn Cross Heritage Society Foundation Forum Connect OU Alumni Membership Community Student Alumni Association Engage Clubs and Societies Travel About the OU Alumni Association About Us Staff FAQs Accountability Contact Us Governance Careers Our Team Our Campuses Our Communities OU Norman Careers OU Health Sciences Center Careers OU-Tulsa Careers Staff Accountability Events For OU Staff & Faculty Donor Portal Menu Give OUFOUNDATIONLive On, Class of 2022! Congratulations OU Class of 2022! As the academic year comes to an end, a new class of Sooner graduates will champion the University of Oklahoma values of service, integrity and inclusivity into the world. Through the callings they will answer, our graduates will positively impact both our state and society with their innovation, research and professional excellence. At OU, all that we do is driven by our fundamental purpose – We Change Lives – three small but powerful words intrinsic to who we are and what we aim to be. Members of the class of 2022 will carry that purpose into the world, and we are eager to see what possibilities they will explore and what legacies they will leave. To the OU Class of 2022, may your journey hereafter be full of success and thank you for passing the torch to generations to come. Live On, University Read Senior Stories Get Involved with Alumni Latest News OU Receives Major Gift From McCasland Foundation to Enhance Oklahoma’s Engineering Workforce Needs Gift of $1 million will fund the McCasland Foundation Engineering Pathways Hub in the Gallogly College of Engineering at OU. The funds will be used to develop a space in Felgar Hall that will focus on recruitment, retention and graduation. Delta Dental of Oklahoma Provides a Cumulative $1 million in Scholarships to OU College of Dentistry Delta Dental of Oklahoma and the Delta Dental of Oklahoma Foundation has awarded $108,000 in scholarships to 15 OU College of Dentistry students for the 2021-2022 academic year. Call for OU Regents' Alumni Awards Nominations April 15 through May 31 The Regents’ Alumni Awards recognizes alumni and friends who have made a distinctive impact on the University of Oklahoma through their exceptional achievements, service and transformational support. All News Calendar of Events Jun 10 June 10, 2022: 2023 Sightseeing Sooner Travel Showcase & Reunion Aug 16 August 16, 2022 to August 18, 2022: 2022 Women's Welcome sponsored by Halliburton See Event Calendar Donor Spotlight Since 1906, OU students have made a special gift to campus and all the students who follow in their footsteps. The University of Oklahoma Class of 2022 came together to support their university and leave a legacy of its own. After voting to determine three projects to fund, the 2022 Class Gift campaign raised $14,299, nearly tripling the beginning goal of $5,000. The funds will go to three crucial programs: Miracle Mindset, an early outreach college access program that serves first-generation and low-income high school students across Oklahoma who are looking to access higher education, the University of Oklahoma Food Pantry, an organization that contributes to the health and wellness of the OU community by providing free supplemental food assistance to the OU community, and the University Counseling Center, which provides professional help for students facing mental health issues. Learn More View Archived Items $2.6B in all-time donations 207% Scholarship endowment growth in past 10 years 78 Years of inspiring philanthropy at OU 100% Of gift principal goes to your designated purpose University of Oklahoma Foundation 100 W. Timberdell Road Norman, OK 73019 Phone: (405) 321-1174 Email: oufoundation@ou.edu Support Careers About Privacy Policy Contact Us OU Alumni Association FAQs For OU Staff & Faculty Trustee Login Login Give Today Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Privacy Policy Information We are committed to protecting your personal information and your right to privacy. Our Privacy Policy details the information we collect, how we use and share it, and the choices you have about how your information is used and shared. We’ve summarized the policy here for your convenience. We collect personal information you provide to us and information about the devices you use to interact with us. We use the information for a number of reasons, including notifying you of your gift giving history, providing you with relevant information about the Foundation and the services it provides, and to enhance your overall experience while using our website. We share information with service providers and others to support our business and mission of serving the University of Oklahoma. We do not sell any of your information. You have choices with respect to the use of your information and may ask us to stop using some or all of your information. We have a variety of safeguards in place to help protect your information against unauthorized access, use or disclosure. The Privacy Policy may be changed from time to time, and those changes become effective when the revised policy is posted to our website. The complete policy, which we encourage you to read, may be found here: Privacy Policy. About Your Gifts Gifts to the University of Oklahoma are processed by the OU Foundation, a nonprofit 501(c)(3) organization that is the preferred channel for all private contributions that benefit students and faculty at OU campuses: OU Norman, OU Health Sciences Center and OU-Tulsa. Learn more about the OU Foundation » Mobile Menu Close Search Content: Giving Methods of Giving Planned Giving Gift Matching President's Associates Thousands Strong Faculty, Staff & Retiree Giving Memorial and Honorary Giving Establish or Support a Fund Creating an Endowment OU Foundation Endowment Opportunities OU Norman Christopher C. Gibbs College of Architecture Dodge Family College of Arts and Sciences College of Atmospheric and Geographic Sciences Michael F. Price College of Business Mewbourne College of Earth and Energy Jeannine Rainbolt College of Education Gallogly College of Engineering Weitzenhoffer Family College of Fine Arts Honors College David L. Boren College of International Studies Gaylord College of Journalism and Mass Communication OU College of Law College of Professional and Continuing Studies OU Health Sciences Center College of Allied Health College of Dentistry College of Medicine Fran and Earl Ziegler College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Hudson College of Public Health OU-Tulsa Bedlam Clinics School of Community Medicine Centers of Excellence Harold Hamm Diabetes Center Stephenson Cancer Center Oklahoma Children's Hospital Athletics Communities & Traditions Pride of Oklahoma Fred Jones Jr. Museum of Art ROTC University Libraries Sooner Parents Student Support Impact Stories of Impact Student Stories Faculty Stories Donor Stories Impact Newsletter Sooner Magazine Giving Societies President's Associates OU Quarter Century Club Seed Sower Society George Lynn Cross Heritage Society Foundation Forum Connect OU Alumni Membership Community Student Alumni Association Engage Clubs and Societies Travel About the OU Alumni Association About Us Staff FAQs Accountability Contact Us Governance Careers Our Team Our Campuses Our Communities OU Norman Careers OU Health Sciences Center Careers OU-Tulsa Careers Staff Accountability Events For OU Staff & Faculty Donor Portal Give