Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Division of Student Affairs Menu Toggle Search Cyclones Forever Cyclone Support Sexual Assault Contact Us Main navigation Home About Mission & Priorities Meet the VP Senior Leaders Organization Chart Reporting Units Campus Life Central Office Dean of Students Office Student Health and Wellness Directory Impact Assessment By The Numbers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Outside the Classroom Reports Students Career Competencies Co-Curricular Learning Domains Scholarships Student Organization Funding Staff Resources Assessment Awards CARE Recognition Committees Communications Events Calendar Division Meetings Policies Professional Development Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our primary focus within the Division of Student Affairs is student academic success. Knowing that students do their best when they have the right support and resources, we develop programming and services to guide them through their academic careers. Across the Division of Student Affairs, we offer multiple opportunities to engage, educate, and discuss the critical topics of multiple identities. We know that we at Iowa State are not immune to racism, sexism, heterosexism, ageism, ableism, classism, xenophobia, religious prejudice, and other forms of oppression. We own that there are injustices in our society and that it is our role within Student Affairs to help dismantle these injustices as we support our students and foster pathways for their success. Division Diversity and Inclusion Reports REcent initiatives Finalizing language that will be added to all division staff performance evaluation templates that will support and enhance our individual and collective learning regarding social justice. This will include an annual expectation to participate in associated professional development. We appreciate our colleagues in the Office of the Vice President for Diversity and Inclusion for their assistance in shaping this language. Staff were asked to complete the Managing Bias Training through Learn@ISU Members of the division have been meeting with student leaders who have a direct stake in the current national and campus climate, to understand the needs and ways to impact change on our university climate. Sharron Evans, Associate Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students, is reinvigorating the Demonstration Safety Team to support student and campus advocacy needs. Campus Life recently hired a new Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. In January 2021, full-time employees in the Division of Student Affairs completed the Intercultural Development Inventory® (IDI). This initiative was implemented in order to gain a better understanding of intercultural competence among division staff. The goal of the optional assessment focuses on “intercultural competence—the capability to shift cultural perspective and appropriately adapt behavior to cultural differences and commonalities” Division-wide aggregate results were shared in January 2021. Learn More NCORE-ISCORE Office The Spark University Trainings Vice President of Diversity and Inclusion Upcoming and Past Division-Wide Professional Development Presentations Join the Diversity and Inclusion Committee Presentation Proposal The Division of Student Affairs Diversity & Inclusion Committee is announcing a professional development series to provide division employees the opportunity to engage in educational discussions and presentations centered on diversity and inclusion. Submit a proposal Iowa State University Division of Student Affairs Office of the Senior Vice President and Provost Division of Operations and Finance Office of the President Contact 2350 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Road Ames, IA 50011 Summer Hours | May 16- August 12; Monday- Friday, 7:30 a.m.- 4 p.m. studentaffairs@iastate.edu 515-294-4420 phone Give Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...