Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Apply Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Bold, curious and creative students achieve excellence at this world-class university with ambition, grit and confidence. Our students don’t just succeed; they thrive after graduation by becoming leaders within their fields. Below you will find facts on the unparalleled benefits of an education from SMU in Dallas, Texas. 93% of SMU graduates have jobs or are in graduate school within six months after graduation. The Dallas area is ranked second among the best places nationally for business and careers by Forbes 2019. SMU ranks in the top 7% of colleges with the highest-paid graduates, and the top 19% of Best Colleges Based on Salary potential, according to PayScale’s 2020-21 College Salary Reports. SMU is one of only 300 schools nationwide that are worth the investment, according to Forbes’ 2019 Best Value Colleges ranking, which is based on quality, net price, net debt, alumni earnings, timely graduation and access for low-income students. 90% of Lyle School of Engineering students complete at least one internship. Every year more than 1,000 Dallas-area businesses offer more than 4,400 internships to SMU students. 94% of Cox graduates were off the job market within three months of graduation at an average starting salary of nearly $66K per year. College Factual counts SMU alumni among the top 5% of highest-paid graduates across a range of fields including the physical and social sciences, computer and information sciences, the humanities, the visual and performing arts, and business, management and marketing. SMU's commitment to academic and creative scholarship in the vibrant economic and artistic powerhouse of Dallas supports our students' success. DFW is the No. 1 metro area for STEM jobs, according to an American Enterprise Institute study (2020). 98% of the Simmons School’s Applied Physiology and Sport Management grads are employed or are pursuing/have completed grad school with APSM-related degree. SMU ranks among the top 20% best national universities in the 2020 edition of U.S. News & World Report’s Best Colleges. SMU tied for No. 1 on the 2021 College Factual list of Highest Paid Music Graduates. Learn even more about information listed above and several of SMU’s resources by reviewing the content below. SMU in Dallas Hegi Family Career Development Center Cox School of Business Career Management Center Hart Center for Engineering Leadership SMU Alumni Network Academic Schools Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search