Skip to main content Skip to main navigation University Libraries Menu University Libraries About Contact Us Employment, Fellowships, and Internships Affordable Course Materials Summer Fellows Active Learning Lab Fellowship Baylor Libraries Summer Internship Programs Fundamentals of Data Research Fellowships Learning Design Fellowship Special Collections Teaching Fellowships Library Publications and Media Basic Information Inspiring Insight Baylor ITS and Libraries Magazine Our Libraries, Institutes, and Centers Media Inquiries Marketing & Communications Meet the Dean Mission & Vision Moody Starbucks People Find Your Librarian Organizational Charts Policies Publication & Digital Reproduction Policy & Procedures Spaces Study Zones in Moody-Jones Moody Pods Specialists Directory Archivists Arts and Special Collections Research Center Course Reserves Classroom Technology Data and Digital Scholarship Digital Humanities Digitization Exhibits Fundraising and Development Grants and Grantwriting HelpDesk+ (Technology Support) Information (Library Public Services) Library Instruction Instructional Design Makerspace Marketing and Communications Media Lab Metaliteracies OsoFast Campus Delivery OsoFast Interlibrary Loan Research Librarians Special Collections Visitor Information Map & Parking Research A-Z Databases Baylor Archival Repositories Database BEARdocs Borrow, Request, Renew Copyright Guidance Data & Digital Scholarship About Data & Digital Scholarship Data Research Fellows Data Scholar Workshops Data Visualization of the Week Projects and Tools Digital Collections High Performance and Research Computing Services HPRCS Services HPRCS Systems HPRCS Support HPRCS Staff Interlibrary Loan/OsoFast Distance Education & Faculty Abroad Library Services OsoFast Delivery Library Guides Managing Citations Off-campus Access OneSearch Research Support Data and Digital Scholarship Government Documents Library Literacies Liaison Program Public Services Discover Black Gospel Archive Black Gospel Music Preservation Project Black Gospel Music Royce-Darden Digital Collection Black Gospel Archive & Listening Center Black Gospel Preachers Project Distinctive Collections Baylor Athletics Archive Book Arts Collection The Browning Letters Texas Maps Collection Women's Collections Graduate Research Center GRC Map Makerspace Media Lab Moody and Jones Libraries New Student Resources Moody & Jones Virtual Tour 2022 Research Libraries, Institutes, and Centers Armstrong Browning Library and Museum Arts and Special Collections Research Center Institute for Oral History Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society W. R. Poage Legislative Library The Texas Collection and University Archives University Writing Center Learn Course Reserves Course Reading List Reserve Requests Form Events Voices & Vinyl 7 Past Events Exhibits Art in the Carrels: BU Student Artists A Stitched-Up Life: Presenting the Work of Dr. Mary Ruth Smith Creations 2022 Crosshatch Galleries National Pan-Hellenic 10th Anniversary Exhibit W. R. Poage Legislative Library Permanent Exhibit Past Exhibits History Fair Learning Together Library Literacies Workshops, Learning Opportunities & Training Visit Armstrong Browning Library and Museum About Collections Give to ABL Research & Instruction Visit Arts & Special Collections Research Center About Explore Special Collections Visit The Baylor Legal Research and Technology Center The Institute for Oral History About Give to the IOH Grants Research Resources Search Our Collection Social Media Student Resources Workshops The Keston Center for Religion, Politics & Society About Keston Collection Exhibits Give to the Keston Center Lectures and Symposia Research Visit Library and Academic Technology Services Experiential Learning Commons Learning Design Learning Spaces Learning Systems Contact LATS Moody and Jones Libraries Arts & Special Collections Research Center Black Gospel Archive & Listening Center HelpDesk+ and Experiential Learning Commons Hours Map and Location Guide Spaces University Writing Center The School of Education Learning Resource Center The Louise Herrington School of Nursing Learning Resource Center The Texas Collection and University Archives About The Texas Collection Collection Highlights Connect With Us On Social Media Research At The Texas Collection Texas Collection Visitor Information W. R. Poage Legislative Library About Collections Connect Give to the Poage Library Research Give Dean of Libraries Priorities Baylor Book Society & Library Endowed Book Fund Books for Bears and Bear Cubs Lanella Spinks Gray Baylor at Independence Fund Sue Margaret Hughes Library Internship Fund Graduate Research Center 2.0 Distinctive Collections Innovative Programming and Spaces Makerspace Upgrades Funding Opportunity Philanthropy's Impact on the Libraries Research Libraries, Institutes and Centers 2021 Development Highlights OsoFast Hours Baylor>University Libraries>Discover>Black Gospel Archive>Black Gospel Music Preservation Project Black Gospel Music Preservation Project History and Impact The rich and soulful sounds from the "Golden Age of Gospel" (roughly 1945-1975) are distinctly African American. They are the voices of men and women who loved to sing and raise their voices in praise. Black gospel groups moved from town-to-town to raise money to live daily, and then moved on to the next church. Along their journey, they found time to record their unique renditions and compositions. This fertile musical time period in American history is a cultural snapshot revealing the depth of a people, their community, and the influence they have had on the rest of American music. These recordings, containing valuable history and culture, are rapidly disappearing and must be preserved. This project is an ideal fit with Baylor and complements the university's Baptist heritage. Once completed, this digital audio archive will draw researchers to Baylor University to listen to and research the "Golden Age of Gospel Music Archive." This archive will elevate the holdings of the already strong Arts & Special Collections Research Center. The ultimate goal of the project is to preserve and store a digital copy of the audio long term, and to provide standards-based discovery tools through an online interface into a full catalog of materials, along with samples of all tracks from the audio archive. Most importantly, this beautifully sweet, vibrantly alive music will be preserved so all can enjoy, love, and learn from it for generations to come. This project was made possible by men and women with a zeal for preserving history. When Charles Royce came across Baylor professor of journalism Robert Darden's "New York Times" op-ed of February 15, 2005, he recognized the need to preserve this important piece of history and was impressed by Professor Darden's passion. In turn, his gift to Baylor University created the Charles M. Royce Black Gospel Music Preservation Program. In addition, the faithful support from Harold (BBA '51) and Dottie Riley of Austin continues to strengthen Baylor University's digitization efforts by equipping the Libraries with the Ray I. Riley Digitization Center, named in memory of Harold's father, and the Dottie S. Riley Conference Room. Their support has funded state-of-the-art equipment and facilities that allow the University to enhance preservation of such materials. To expand and increase this one-of-a-kind initiative, The Prichard Family Foundation established the Lev H. Prichard III Traditional Black Music Restoration Endowed Fund in 2009. Paying tribute to Lev Prichard III, the gift embodies Lev and Ella (BA '63) Prichard's love of cultural and educational ventures. The BGMPP and the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of African American History & Culture We are proud to be partners with the NMAAHC, the newest museum of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C. Materials from the BGMPP are featured in the museum's Musical Crossroads permanent exhibit. Learn more about the BGMPP and the NMAAHC here. Google Map of BGMPP-Related Recording Locations Copyright information As a result of the preservation work of the Black Gospel Music Preservation Program, these recordings are presented here free of charge for personal, non-commercial use as a contribution to education and scholarship. Baylor University does not own the rights to any materials in this collection and therefore cannot grant or deny permission to distribute project materials. It is the user's obligation to determine and satisfy copyright or other use restrictions when publishing or otherwise distributing music from the BGMRP. If you have any more information about the music available from the BGMPP, or if you are the copyright owner and believe this collection has not properly attributed your work to you or has used it without permission, we want to hear from you. Please email digitalcollectionsinfo@baylor.edu to get in contact with the project staff, including your contact information and a link to the relevant content. A Note of Thanks A close collaborator and early supporter of this project is Chicago-based collector and scholar Robert Marovich. Baylor University is deeply appreciative and thankful for Mr. Marovich's invaluable assistance by granting access to his extensive collection of American black gospel music recordings for use in the BGMRP. Using This Resource In Your Research? If you're a researcher or scholar and you've found a use for our materials in your work, email us at digitalcollectionsinfo@baylor.edu and tell us about it! We may feature your work on our Digital Collections blog or work with you to promote your work via our other social media outlets. Activity Note This collection is considered an active collection. Items will be added periodically as they are acquired by Baylor University and processed through the Digital Projects Group. Get In Touch With Us Have questions? Do you have materials that might fit in the collection? Would you like to support the project financially? Please email us at digitalcollectionsinfo@baylor.edu. BGMPP Blog Follow our Blog for project updates, leave us comments and subscribe for to get the latest BGMPP news direct to your email inbox! Mailing Address: Black Gospel Music Preservation Program ATTN: Hannah Engstrom Baylor University Libraries 1312 S 3rd Street Waco, TX 76706 Email: digitalcollectionsinfo@baylor.edu Discover Black Gospel Archive Black Gospel Music Preservation Project Black Gospel Music Royce-Darden Digital Collection Black Gospel Archive & Listening Center Black Gospel Preachers Project Distinctive Collections Baylor Athletics Archive Book Arts Collection The Browning Letters Texas Maps Collection Women's Collections Graduate Research Center GRC Map Makerspace Media Lab Moody and Jones Libraries New Student Resources Moody & Jones Virtual Tour 2022 Research Libraries, Institutes, and Centers Armstrong Browning Library and Museum Arts and Special Collections Research Center Institute for Oral History Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society W. R. Poage Legislative Library The Texas Collection and University Archives University Writing Center University Libraries One Bear Place #97148 Waco, TX 76798-7148 (254) 710-6702 Ask a Question libraryquestions@baylor.edu HoursHelp Desk+OneSearchMake a GiftSecurity Concerns? Call 254.710.2211Lost & Found General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Contact Us Employment, Fellowships, and Internships Affordable Course Materials Summer Fellows Active Learning Lab Fellowship Baylor Libraries Summer Internship Programs Fundamentals of Data Research Fellowships Learning Design Fellowship Special Collections Teaching Fellowships Library Publications and Media Basic Information Inspiring Insight Baylor ITS and Libraries Magazine Our Libraries, Institutes, and Centers Media Inquiries Marketing & Communications Meet the Dean Mission & Vision Moody Starbucks People Find Your Librarian Organizational Charts Policies Publication & Digital Reproduction Policy & Procedures Spaces Study Zones in Moody-Jones Moody Pods Specialists Directory Archivists Arts and Special Collections Research Center Course Reserves Classroom Technology Data and Digital Scholarship Digital Humanities Digitization Exhibits Fundraising and Development Grants and Grantwriting HelpDesk+ (Technology Support) Information (Library Public Services) Library Instruction Instructional Design Makerspace Marketing and Communications Media Lab Metaliteracies OsoFast Campus Delivery OsoFast Interlibrary Loan Research Librarians Special Collections Visitor Information Map & Parking Research A-Z Databases Baylor Archival Repositories Database BEARdocs Borrow, Request, Renew Copyright Guidance Data & Digital Scholarship About Data & Digital Scholarship Data Research Fellows Data Scholar Workshops Data Visualization of the Week Projects and Tools Digital Collections High Performance and Research Computing Services HPRCS Services HPRCS Systems HPRCS Support HPRCS Staff Interlibrary Loan/OsoFast Distance Education & Faculty Abroad Library Services OsoFast Delivery Library Guides Managing Citations Off-campus Access OneSearch Research Support Data and Digital Scholarship Government Documents Library Literacies Liaison Program Public Services Discover Black Gospel Archive Black Gospel Music Preservation Project Black Gospel Music Royce-Darden Digital Collection Black Gospel Archive & Listening Center Black Gospel Preachers Project Distinctive Collections Baylor Athletics Archive Book Arts Collection The Browning Letters Texas Maps Collection Women's Collections Graduate Research Center GRC Map Makerspace Media Lab Moody and Jones Libraries New Student Resources Moody & Jones Virtual Tour 2022 Research Libraries, Institutes, and Centers Armstrong Browning Library and Museum Arts and Special Collections Research Center Institute for Oral History Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society W. R. Poage Legislative Library The Texas Collection and University Archives University Writing Center Learn Course Reserves Course Reading List Reserve Requests Form Events Voices & Vinyl 7 Past Events Exhibits Art in the Carrels: BU Student Artists A Stitched-Up Life: Presenting the Work of Dr. Mary Ruth Smith Creations 2022 Crosshatch Galleries National Pan-Hellenic 10th Anniversary Exhibit W. R. Poage Legislative Library Permanent Exhibit Past Exhibits History Fair Learning Together Library Literacies Workshops, Learning Opportunities & Training Visit Armstrong Browning Library and Museum About Collections Give to ABL Research & Instruction Visit Arts & Special Collections Research Center About Explore Special Collections Visit The Baylor Legal Research and Technology Center The Institute for Oral History About Give to the IOH Grants Research Resources Search Our Collection Social Media Student Resources Workshops The Keston Center for Religion, Politics & Society About Keston Collection Exhibits Give to the Keston Center Lectures and Symposia Research Visit Library and Academic Technology Services Experiential Learning Commons Learning Design Learning Spaces Learning Systems Contact LATS Moody and Jones Libraries Arts & Special Collections Research Center Black Gospel Archive & Listening Center HelpDesk+ and Experiential Learning Commons Hours Map and Location Guide Spaces University Writing Center The School of Education Learning Resource Center The Louise Herrington School of Nursing Learning Resource Center The Texas Collection and University Archives About The Texas Collection Collection Highlights Connect With Us On Social Media Research At The Texas Collection Texas Collection Visitor Information W. R. Poage Legislative Library About Collections Connect Give to the Poage Library Research Give Dean of Libraries Priorities Baylor Book Society & Library Endowed Book Fund Books for Bears and Bear Cubs Lanella Spinks Gray Baylor at Independence Fund Sue Margaret Hughes Library Internship Fund Graduate Research Center 2.0 Distinctive Collections Innovative Programming and Spaces Makerspace Upgrades Funding Opportunity Philanthropy's Impact on the Libraries Research Libraries, Institutes and Centers 2021 Development Highlights OsoFast Hours