Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the President President right arrow down arrow The President right arrow down arrow President's Cabinet Organizational Chart Inaugural Address The Office right arrow down arrow Governmental Relations Former Presidents First Lady right arrow down arrow Book: 'UC's First Ladies' Communications right arrow down arrow News Next: President's Report right arrow down arrow Next Report Fall 2019 Next Report Spring 2019 Next Report Fall 2018 Spring 2021 President's Report Statements Thought Leadership The Power of Vision Presidential Awards right arrow down arrow President's Award for Excellence right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients Honorary Degrees NEXT Innovation Scholars Priorities right arrow down arrow Strategic Direction Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact Next, Now Campaign Searches McMicken Working Group right arrow down arrow Report Contact Home » About UC » President » The President Set Navigation title in component President's Cabinet Organizational Chart Inaugural Address Neville G. Pinto, PhD Biography Neville G. Pinto serves as the 30th President of the University of Cincinnati. A university teacher, researcher and administrator with more than 35 years of experience in higher education, he became UC’s chief executive on February 20, 2017. He is the first UC president to rise from the ranks of UC’s faculty since Herman Schneider, the founder of cooperative education (1928–1932). Dr. Pinto leads the Cincinnati region’s only Carnegie Research 1 university – an institution attracting over $452 million in annual external research grants and contracts (including affiliates). In February 2018, he launched UC’s strategic direction, NEXT LIVES HERE, which is a new paradigm for university planning that allows the university to be nimble and responsive to the world’s changing landscape. It focuses on UC leading public universities into a new era of innovation and impact, with three main platforms of academic excellence, the innovation agenda and urban impact. As a part of this strategic direction, Pinto established a new position – the university’s first Chief Innovation Officer – and UC opened doors to its 1819 Innovation Hub. Pinto’s leadership led UC’s intellectual property process to be reimagined and it became a model for the state’s “Ohio IP Promise.” Under Pinto’s guiding vision, the university also is reinventing its cooperative education program – the world’s first – for the digital economy and has attracted a $100 million investment from JobsOhio to accelerate the number of its STEM graduates, promote federal research at UC and the affiliated Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center, and launch the Cincinnati Innovation District in Uptown. Pinto also presided as UC celebrated its Bicentennial in 2018–2019 while looking ahead to its next century and launching a $2 billion comprehensive campaign, “Next, Now.” Regionally, Pinto currently serves on the Ohio Governor’s Executive Workforce Board and the Cincinnati Business Committee (CBC), as president of the Inter-University Council of Ohio, chair of the Uptown Consortium in Cincinnati and chair of the Education Committee of the RESTART Task Force (a partnership of the Cincinnati USA Regional Chamber, CBC and Cincinnati Regional Business Committee). He also serves on the boards of the United Way of Greater Cincinnati and the Boys Scouts of America Dan Beard Council. Just prior to returning to UC to serve as president, Dr. Pinto led the University of Louisville as acting president and professor of chemical engineering. Before serving at the University of Louisville, he served for 26 years on the faculty in chemical engineering at the University of Cincinnati, where he established the Adsorption and Ion Exchange Laboratory, which focused on research in biochemical and environmental engineering. His research included purification of genetically engineered drugs, the study of bio-membranes, and air and water purification. His laboratory attracted over $6 million in external research funding and trained 32 graduate students including 16 PhD students, many of whom have moved on to become leaders in industry and academia. Earlier in his career at UC, Pinto held a number of administrative posts including Department Head for Chemical Engineering, Assistant Dean for Graduate Studies in the College of Engineering and Applied Science, and Vice Provost and Dean of The Graduate School. As Dean, he had a leadership role in attracting major external awards totaling over $10 million to UC to support graduate and STEM education. Pinto joined the University of Louisville (UofL) as Dean of the Speed School of Engineering in 2011. While dean, his accomplishments included overseeing a major expansion in the enrollment of the college and spearheading the development of the Belknap Engineering and Applied Sciences Research Park. He significantly strengthened the university’s relationship with GE, to develop a partnership that has led to significant educational and career opportunities for students and encouraged the company to bring its FirstBuild microfactory to campus. This effort earned the Silver Fleur-de-Lis award from Greater Louisville Inc. in 2015. From May 2015 to July 2016, Pinto served as Interim Executive Vice President and University Provost at UoL. During this period, he finalized the 21st Century University Plan and launched major initiatives to strengthen educational excellence, student success and access, research and community engagement. He was appointed Acting President in 2016. Pinto was elected Fellow of the Graduate School at UC based on outstanding scholarly attainment and was elected to the National Academy of Inventors in recognition of U.S. patents awarded. He has variously been active in the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, American Society for Engineering Education, American Chemical Society and is a member of the Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honor Society. He is also the recipient of numerous outstanding teaching and service awards. Pinto was born in Mumbai, India. He was educated at the Indian Institute of Technology, New Delhi, where he earned his bachelor’s in chemical engineering. He earned his MS and his PhD in chemical engineering at Penn State University. Office of the President University of Cincinnati 625 University Pavilion 2618 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, OH 45221-0063 513-556-2201 president@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the President University of Cincinnati 625 University Pavilion 2618 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, OH 45221-0063 513-556-2201 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top