Home About Partners Faculty Education Executive Education October 2014 October 2013 Submit Materials Teaching Materials By Author By Industry By Topic By Type Research Data Sets Working Papers Events Past Events by Topic Past Events by Year INFORMS Revenue Management & Pricing Conference News Directory Center for Pricing and Revenue Management Home About Partners Faculty Education Executive Education October 2014 October 2013 Submit Materials Teaching Materials By Author By Industry By Topic By Type Research Data Sets Working Papers Events Past Events by Topic Past Events by Year INFORMS Revenue Management & Pricing Conference News OBesbes Teaching.jpg "Pricing Analytics: The Science of Profitable Growth" In this two-day Executive Education program, led by Professors Costis Maglaras and Omar Besbes learn how to use business analytics to better understand your customers and determine the right prices and products to target them. Register for Spring 2018! Panel1.JPG "Leveraging Big Data and Analytics to Drive Business Disruption" Scott Friend of Bain Capital Ventures, and executives from Jet.com, Rent the Runway and Persado, discussed building successful analytics-based businesses. More Info | Video Quick links: Upcoming Events Executive Education Workshop 2016 INFORMS RM&P Conference Columbia Business School four-block Center News Scott Friend of Bain Capital Ventures, and executives from Jet.com, Rent the Runway and Persado, discussed building successful analytics-based businesses. Video> Stay in Touch For news and updates from the Center, sign up for our Email Newsletter. Sign Up Now → Analytics in the News Pricing Kylie Jenner's Lipstick Center Director Robert L. Phillips comments on the secondary market phenomenon in Forbes. March 2, 2016 Are Price Tags on the Way Out? Center Director Robert L. Phillips on NPR's Planet Money. July 2, 2015 Executive Education Workshop "Pricing Analytics: The Science of Profitable Growth" Learn from Professors Costis Maglaras and Omar Besbes about an analytics-driven approach to pricing that can help you significantly out-perform your competitors. The two-day Executive Education program is run in partnership with IRI, a leading provider of big data and predictive analytics. The next session takes place June 5–6, 2018. Register for Spring 2018! Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top