Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Counseling Center Menu COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health Baylor>Counseling Center>Services>Program of Care Program of Care Program of Care The Baylor Counseling Center is equipped to provide assistance for the emergent concerns of our students. We provide a continuum of care for students by staff clinicians (psychologists, licensed social workers, licensed marriage and family therapists, and licensed professional counselors) who work towards delivering the best services that will address your concerns. Consultation Services: We provide consultation services that can help you with strategies for aiding a student to connect with the Counseling Center. We provide these services with those concerned about a student. We are open to speaking to parents, friends, staff and faculty about a range of issues, including: Strategies for helping a student connect with the Counseling Center or another on-campus support; concerns about a particular student who might be experiencing emotional distress or struggling with mental health struggles; concerns about the impact of an individual’s distressing behaviors on others or referrals to other community mental health providers and services Individual Therapy: We often see students at the Counseling Center on an individual basis to address a variety of concerns including depression, anxiety, relationship problems, academic problems, coping with loss, and eating disorders to name a few. The clinician will initially assess your concerns and collaborate with you on a treatment plan for short term therapy, and usually meet with you on are regular basis for 45-50 minutes. Telehealth Options: Baylor University offers several options for online counseling: If you are in Texas and would like counseling services with the Baylor University Counseling Center by video during the normal Counseling Center office hours, call 254-710-2467. To better serve our Baylor students, we have enhanced our services for students by partnering with Academic Live Care to provide 24/7/365 counseling for all Baylor students regardless of geographic location. If you are outside of Texas, or if you are in Texas but looking for counseling services outside of the Counseling Center’s regular business hours and services, call 833-969-3998 to be connected with Academic Live Care. If you are outside of the U.S., call +44 20 8987-6588. Baylor University Counseling Center hours: Monday-Friday 8am-5pm Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care: 24 hours a day/7 days a week/365 days a year Other Services: Trauma Recovery Services: We have a treatment team of professional clinicians trained specifically in trauma recovery. We provide confidential services that are safe and supportive to help the trauma survivor as they sort through their options and begin healing. Addictive Behavior Services: Staff can meet with you individually for various types of addictive behavior concerns: substance abuse, pornography, gaming, and gambling to name a few. In addition, we provide groups to support both men and women dealing with these concerns. Dietitian Services: Regina Mastin, a licensed and registered dietitian, provides medical nutrition therapy for students. If you have a nutrition related diagnosis such as diabetes, hypoglycemia, anemia, gastrointestinal disorders, high cholesterol or high blood pressure, food allergies, as well as struggling with disordered eating, you may benefit from nutritional counseling as well. Nutrition counseling includes an assessment of current nutritional status, evaluation of current dietary intake, need for dietary modifications and education on appropriate diet. Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Visit Us McLane Student Life Center, 2nd Floor 209 Speight Ave Waco, TX 76706 Contact Us 254.710.2467 Counseling_Center@baylor.edu Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Counseling Center Facebook Pinterest Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health