COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Audiology, Doctorate DoctorateAudiology All Programs College of Health Professions Communication Sciences and Disorders Wichita State's doctor of audiology (AuD) program will prepare you for a high-demand career in the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of hearing problems. As a student, you'll have a variety of applied-learning experiences at the WSU Evelyn Hendren Cassat Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic, in settings throughout Kansas' health care hub, and at other clinical settings across the United States. Learn how Audiology is the right fit for you. Request Info How to Apply to the Program Apply to WSU Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Consideration for program admission requires: Application for admission to the WSU Graduate School, including official transcripts from all institutions attended; and either MA and AuD only: Application to the Communication Sciences and Disorders Centralized Application Service (CSDCAS) including all transcripts, letters of recommendation and supporting documents; or PhD only: Submit supporting documents directly to the WSU CSD department. For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic changes lives with internet-connected hearing aids Under the supervision of clinic educators, students working in WSU's Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic evaluate patients and pair them with the best hearing aid to fit their lifestyle. One of those hearing aids is a groundbreaking new internet-connected device that is fast and precise enough to process sound more efficiently. Through their work in the clinic, students are helping change the lives of patients. Curriculum The program requires a minimum of 89 credit hours of didactic and clinical courses (92 credit hours if research project option 2 is selected) and 9 hours including American Sign Language, normal development of speech and language and aural rehabilitation. All students must enroll in a clinical practicum course each semester and complete annual HIPAA training. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree in communication sciences and disorders from Wichita State will put you on the path toward a high-paying, high-demand career in audiology—with employment in a wide range of settings from local schools and clinics to large health care facilities. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Communication Sciences and Disorders (Master's) Communication Sciences and Disorders (Doctorate) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©