Skip to Main Content Brown University Cogut Institute for the Humanities Secondary Navigation Navigation Events Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Visit the Institute A Statement of Solidarity 2020–21 Annual Report All Annual Reports People Director Governing Board Institute Faculty 2021-22 Fellows Seminar Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Fellows Undergraduate Fellows Collaborative Humanities Fellows Staff Centers/Initiatives Black Visualities Initiative Brown University Humanities Initiative Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Center of Excellence Collaborative Humanities Initiative Economies of Aesthetics Environmental Humanities at Brown Humanities in the World Political Concepts Funding Opportunities Opportunities Calendar Courses/Certificate Fall 2022 Courses Undergraduate Collaborative Humanities Courses Doctoral Certificate in Collaborative Humanities Collaborative Humanities Seminars All Past Courses Media Blog: The Humanities in Practice Meeting Street Podcast YouTube Channel Connect Search Cogut Institute for the Humanities Meeting Street Podcast host Amanda Anderson explores topics of vital societal interest through conversations with scholars and writers whose voices have helped define issues and shape debates. Breadcrumb Home Media Sub Navigation In This Section Blog: The Humanities in Practice Meeting Street Podcast YouTube Channel Meeting Street Podcast host Amanda Anderson explores topics of vital societal interest through conversations with scholars and writers whose voices have helped define issues and shape debates. Meeting Street: Conversations in the Humanities is produced by the Cogut Institute for the Humanities at Brown University. Special focus on the forms of knowledge that characterize the humanities. Episode Transcripts 1. Disability Studies and the Pandemic Meeting Street host Amanda Anderson and disability studies scholars Janet Lyon (literary studies) and Ashley Shew (science and technology studies) explore how disability studies has influenced academic research and participated in larger communities of activism, with special emphasis on the challenges of the pandemic. Visit Page Open details for 1. Disability Studies and the Pandemic 2. The Humanities in the Time of COVID-19 Amanda Anderson and Jonathan Kramnick (Yale University) talk about the challenges facing the humanities during COVID-19, the job market crisis for doctoral students, the role of the humanities in and beyond the pandemic, and the broader landscape of knowledge production across the disciplines of the modern university. Visit Page Open details for 2. The Humanities in the Time of COVID-19 3. The History and Science of Virtual Reality Virtual reality may seem like a new technology, but forms of immersive experience have a long history during which scientific and imaginative aspects often developed hand in hand. Visit Page Open details for 3. The History and Science of Virtual Reality 4. Uncovering the Humanities in Data Science What ideas and assumptions about human social life underlie data science and new media? How might scholars in and beyond the humanities work together to diagnose and respond to the algorithmic frameworks of digital culture, especially those that reinscribe or reinforce forms of division and discrimination? Visit Page Open details for 4. Uncovering the Humanities in Data Science 5. Why We Need the Environmental Humanities Humanities scholars are at the forefront of the response to climate change. In this show Amanda Anderson talks with two influential and innovative scholars in the field of the environmental humanities: Bathsheba Demuth, an environmental historian who studies the Arctic North, and Macarena Gómez-Barris, a cultural critic whose work focuses on the Global South. Visit Page Open details for 5. Why We Need the Environmental Humanities 6. Feminist Criticism After Trump What does feminism teach us about the Trump years and democratic life today? In this episode of Meeting Street, Amanda Anderson talks with political theorist and cultural critic Bonnie Honig about a form of politics in which misogyny is a central feature, the use of gaslighting and other gendered forms of shock politics in public life, and the politics of refusal. Visit Page Open details for 6. Feminist Criticism After Trump 7. Historical Racism and the Politics of Loss How do we understand experiences of loss politically? And what role have accounts of loss played historically, from slavery through the Movement for Black Lives and the pandemic? Visit Page Open details for 7. Historical Racism and the Politics of Loss 8. On Catastrophe and Planetary Realism How do the humanities help us respond to what feels like a new era of planetary catastrophe? Join Meeting Street host Amanda Anderson as she speaks with literary scholar and humanities institute director Debjani Ganguly about how humanities scholars and contemporary novelists have conceptualized large-scale transformations affecting our planet and our societies. Visit Page Open details for 8. On Catastrophe and Planetary Realism 9. Black Aliveness A wide-ranging and revelatory conversation with scholar and writer Kevin Quashie about his new book Black Aliveness, which emphasizes the experience of Black life through readings of poetry and first-person essays. Visit Page Open details for 9. Black Aliveness 10. Happiness in Psychology and Philosophy Is pleasure the measure of happiness? Does happiness make life meaningful? How does it factor in economic and political life? Visit Page Open details for 10. Happiness in Psychology and Philosophy 11. Christopher Newfield on Building a More Democratic University How do inequities in working conditions and resources across academic departments jeopardize the central project of higher education? And how might the humanities serve as a model for thinking about university reform and ensuring the democracy of our institutions? Visit Page Open details for 11. Christopher Newfield on Building a More Democratic University Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Visit the Institute A Statement of Solidarity 2020–21 Annual Report All Annual Reports People Director Governing Board Institute Faculty 2021-22 Fellows Seminar Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Fellows Undergraduate Fellows Collaborative Humanities Fellows Staff Centers/Initiatives Black Visualities Initiative Brown University Humanities Initiative Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Center of Excellence Collaborative Humanities Initiative Economies of Aesthetics Environmental Humanities at Brown Humanities in the World Political Concepts Funding Opportunities Opportunities Calendar Courses/Certificate Fall 2022 Courses Undergraduate Collaborative Humanities Courses Doctoral Certificate in Collaborative Humanities Collaborative Humanities Seminars All Past Courses Media Blog: The Humanities in Practice Meeting Street Podcast YouTube Channel Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Events Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Meeting Street Open details for Meeting Street Bookmark this Page