Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Engineering & Computer Science Main Navigation Departments Centers Current Students Future Students Services & Resources Employment News & Events Giving Contact Us Welcome Impact Ways to Give Make a Gift Giving Contacts Corporate Partner Membership Opportunities YOUR SUPPORT CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE A Message from the Executive Director of Development Dear Friends, Cal State Fullerton is a trusted leader in delivering immersive educational experiences that produce successful graduates and strengthen our individual and collective economy. Change is the only constant, but the rate of change and innovation is being spurred on by the digital transformation. Your involvement and investment in the College of Engineering and Computer Science (ECS) is critical to ensuring we have the resources to provide learning experiences and spaces for our students to create, collaborate, and connect to fulfilling career paths. Help us continue our commitment to higher education by supporting ECS through various sources of giving or by volunteering your time to impact a student’s life. On behalf of ECS, I thank you for your generosity. Please don’t hesitate to contact me or my team with any questions. I am always happy to speak with our alumni and friends! Mike Karg CONTACT US Mike Karg Executive Director of Development Phone: 657-278-3348 Email: mkarg@fullerton.edu Toni Arellanes-Miller Senior Director of Development Office: 657-278-2037 Mobile: 657-253-3308 Email: tamiller@fullerton.edu Monica Garza Development Coordinator Phone: 657-278-7750 Email: mogarza@fullerton.edu This site is maintained by Engineering & Computer Science. Last Published 4/15/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ecswebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.