Department of East Asian Studies Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Us Submenu Welcome Submenu Directions Contact Us Undergraduate Submenu Majoring in EAS Undergraduate Roster Independent Work Grading Policies Language Courses and Placement Certificates Study Abroad Graduate Submenu About Admissions Program Requirements Dissertation Placement Fellowships Awarded History of Department People Submenu Faculty Submenu Departmental Faculty Associated Faculty Visiting and Affiliated Emeriti Faculty In Memoriam Administrators Graduate Students Recent PhDs Submenu EAS GradFUTURES EAS career outcomes News & Events Submenu Lectures Submenu Colloquium RSVP Colloquium Schedule News Courses Annual Reports Research Submenu Faculty Bookshelf Projects Dissertations Senior Theses East Asian Library EAS Program EAS Resources Log in Search Search Department of East Asian Studies Conference on Tang-Song Transitions June 16, 2022 As Song studies and Tang studies have grown as respective fields over the last several decades, older styles of work that had tried to make large claims across the period… Faculty Author Q&A: Thomas Conlan on “Samurai and the Warrior Culture of Japan” May 23, 2022 Thomas Conlan discusses his new publication, a sourcebook that explores the lost voices of Japan's samurai. Graduate students honored for excellent in teaching: Soojung Han and Jessica LeGare May 23, 2022 The Graduate School has presented 29 graduate students with its annual Teaching Awards in recognition of their outstanding abilities as teachers. … Fall 2022 East Asian Studies Courses April 6, 2022 Fall 2022 EAS Courses (days and times subject to change) Martin Kern named vice-president of American Oriental Society March 23, 2022 Martin Kern, the Joanna and Greg Zeluck ’84 P13 P18 Professor in Asian Studies, was elected Vice-President of the American Oriental Society for 2022-23, to become… 1 / 5 < > The Department of East Asian Studies at Princeton University invites you to explore the culture, history, societies, politics, and languages of East Asia (China, Japan, and Korea). A total of 51 full-time professors and language lecturers offer students, both at the undergraduate and graduate levels, the opportunity to study with preeminent scholars and to do research in our world-renowned East Asian Library - home to the Gest rare books collection. EAS undergraduate courses provide students with a wide range of courses on both the classical traditions and the current world of China, Japan, and Korea. In the summers, EAS faculty members have been offering a series of Global Seminars in China, Japan, Korea, and Vietnam. Taking EAS language courses can lead students to participate in international programs, such as summer language courses through Princeton in Beijing and Princeton in Ishikawa, amongst others. Undergraduate students may obtain the A.B. degree in East Asian Studies; earn a departmental Language and Culture Certificate in Chinese, Japanese, or Korean; or earn an EAS Program Certificate in East Asian Studies. At the graduate level, students focus their doctoral training on Chinese, Japanese, and Korean literature and history, the traditional strengths of the East Asian Studies Department, with many new offerings on contemporary East Asia. Footer Facebook Department of East Asian Studies 211 Jones Hall. Princeton, NJ 08544 609-258-4279 eashelp@princeton.edu Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University