Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Become a Student Life & Community New York City Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Day by Day Diversity Groups and Activities Housing New York City Day by Day Diversity Groups and Activities Housing New York City New York City When classes are over and books are closed, what's a student to do in the City ThatNever Sleeps? Almost anything. The School’s Washington Heights location offers a one-of-a-kind experience of urban living. Through housing, eating, culture, study, and leisure, New York City brims with energy and excitement. Whether exploring Broadway, the Bronx Zoo, Central Park, or the outer boroughs, students have limitless recreational options. For those who crave crowds, Times Square, Madison Square Garden, Yankee Stadium, and countless cultural venues await—including many opportunities for free and low-cost entertainment. New York City also presents an extraordinary range of professional opportunities. Many students find practicum placement and job opportunities with one of the hundreds of government agencies, nonprofit organizations, and private-sector healthcare enterprises located in the city and greater metropolitan area. Read more Student Voices. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Public Health Leaders Urge SCOTUS to Uphold Roe v. WadeMay 4 2022 Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the WestMay 4 2022 Period Poverty and the Pandemic: A Forgotten CrisisMay 4 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers