COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Wichita State engineering, PT students create bike for boy with cerebral palsy June 7, 2021 — Five-year-old Ford Hall has had to overcome more in his short life than most do in a lifetime. That’s because immediately after he was born, he was diagnosed with cerebral palsy. The doctors informed his mother he would probably never be able to walk. “It was that conversation with that doctor that really lit a fire in us,” said Cori Hall, Ford’s mother. Meet a Shocker: Payton Morgan May 1, 2021 – Payton Morgan, a native Wichitan, is a Wichita East High School alumnus. He chose to attend Wichita State because of the relationships he already had with Wichita State students and staff. Catching Up With: 2019 Gore Scholar, Anna Tri April 15 -- Competing in the 2019 Distinguished Scholarship Invitational and winning a Gore Scholarshiphs allowed Anna Tri to focus on her studies without worrying about the costs of college. WSU engineering awards $28,500 each to Wallace Scholars April 14, 2021 - Wichita State University’s College of Engineering has named the latest group of high school seniors to be awarded Wallace Scholarships worth $285,000. Wallace Scholarship recipients will receive $28,500 each to attend Wichita State for four years. In addition, one student already receiving the Gore Scholarship also will be designated as a Wallace Scholar. Wichita State's cybersecurity program helps Novacoast locate office in Wichita April 7, 2021 - In February, Novacoast announced plans to open a 24/7 security operations center in the Epic Center in downtown Wichita. Novacoast, according to media reports, will hire around 60 employees immediately for positions such as sales, analysts and cybersecurity engineers.“Having a robust computer science department and applied computing department is a good source of interns and future employees to Novacoast,” said Joe Jabara, director of Wichita State’s Hub for Cybersecurity Education and Awareness. “The university’s emphasis on cybersecurity really helped lure them to Wichita.” Wichita State University announces eight new Koch Scholar recipients April 6, 2021 — The Wichita State University Dorothy and Bill Cohen Honors College is proud to announce eight recipients of the Koch Scholars Program for the fall 2021 semester. These recipients each will be awarded $30,000 over four years. Wichita State's engineering graduate programs are the highest ranked in Kansas April 1, 2021 - In the latest U.S. News and World Report rankings of universities offering a Ph.D. in engineering, the College of Engineering at Wichita State University is again ranked in the top 100 engineering graduate programs, the only institution from the state of Kansas to make it in the top 100. Wichita State ranks No. 77 on the list, up from No. 94 a year ago. Wichita State aerospace engineering student awarded prestigious NSF fellowship March 24, 2021 — Brittany Wojciechowski, a Wichita State University Ph.D. student in aerospace engineering, has been awarded the prestigious National Science Foundation’s (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowship (GRF), which is worth more than $120,000. Wichita State professors and students recognized for innovation March 16, 2021 — Wichita State University faculty and student researchers have been awarded the 2021 John A. See Innovation Award. Engineering students' projects keep shoes out of landfills March 10, 2021 – A class project in Kara McCluskey’s environmental and engineering technology class this semester set out to tackle an immense issue: The fact that each year in America, 300 million pairs of shoes are thrown away, taking an average of 30 to 40 years for just one pair to decompose. Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic and Engineering collaborate to improve child's communication March 5, 2021 – Students and faculty at the Wichita State Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic have teamed up with the College of Engineering to help a 9-year-old child communicate effectively. Five Shockers featured at Kansas Undergraduate Research Days March 2, 2021 — Five Wichita State students’ projects are being highlighted as a part of the Kansas Undergraduate Research Day at the Kansas State Capitol March 2-4. Wichita State aerospace alum wins Black Engineer of the Year Award Feb. 18, 2021 — When Prince Yengbe came to Wichita State University from his home country of Ghana in 2007, he wasn’t entirely sure what aerospace engineering was, but he knew he wanted to be part of it. Now, after earning a bachelor’s (2012) and a master’s degree (2015) in the subject, Yengbe is being honored with the Modern-Day Technology Leader Award by the 2021 Black Engineer of the Year Award (BEYA) STEM Conference. Wichita State rises in NSF R&D expenditures lists Feb. 18, 2021 -- The National Science Foundation has released its latest comparison of research and development expenditures among the nation’s universities, and Wichita State University has risen in all categories, increasing expenditures by $47 million. Wichita State's Rémi Chou wins top NSF early career researcher award Feb. 3, 2021 — Dr. Rémi A. Chou, an assistant professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, has been awarded a National Science Foundation CAREER Award, the most prestigious award granted by the NSF to early career researchers. Chou's grant – worth $519,000 over five years – will support his work in bringing more robust security to wirelessly transmitted data. First Previous 1 2 3 4 5 ... Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©