Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Employee Assistance Program Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Us What is the EAP? Mission & Values Who We Are EAPA Code of Ethics Services Publications Articles EAP Newsletter Frontline Supervisor Contact Us Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Employee Assistance Program Toggle navigation Home About Us What is the EAP? Mission & Values Who We Are EAPA Code of Ethics Services Publications Articles EAP Newsletter Frontline Supervisor Contact Us slide Employee Assistance Program, 937 West Jefferson, Tallahassee, FL 32304 · Location Map Home page (used as placeholder) title-inside title-centered 2 Conflict Resolution Strategies During COVID-19 Coping with Stress (CDC) Helping Supervisors Lead During COVID-19 Domestic Violence Safety Guidelines During COVID-19 Available to You! Brief Intervention and Short-Term Counseling Our professional staff provides short-term counseling services, referrals, and follow-up to help employees address issues such as: job stress, relationship issues, communication issues, anxiety, depression, substance abuse, grief and loss, etc. More Supervisor Consults Consultation with supervisors seeking to manage and assist employees with workplace and/or personal concerns, enhance the work environment, and improve employee job performance. More Organizational Development The EAP, working both independently and in collaboration with Human Resources Training, offers topic-specific training to individuals and departments throughout campus. More Mediation Services A free and confidential program to help you resolve disputes. More Debt Management FSU has partnered with Debt Management Credit Counseling Corporation (DMCC) to assist those in the FSU community who may be struggling with debt or wanting to increase their credit rating. More Emergency Loan Fund (ELF) The EAP administers FSU’s Emergency Loan Fund (ELF) which was established to aid employees facing unexpected financial emergencies. More EAP Newsletter Offering brief and positive life management articles! More Frontline Supervisor A monthly magazine designed to assist managers and supervisors with employee related issues. More Employee Assistance Program Florida State University 937 West Jefferson Tallahassee FL, 32306-4190 MAP Phone (850) 644.2288 Toll Free (877) 246.4679 Fax (850) 644.1043 A service under FSU Finance & Administration ® 2020 Florida State University © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media