Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Memphis Speech and Hearing Center - 901.678.2009 About Our Team Services Make an Appointment COVID-19 Updates Clinical Research Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Diagnostic Services Explore the full range of audiologic diagnostic testing available for individuals of all ages Hearing Aids Learn more about our hearing aid services Speech-Language Pathology Services From evaluations to therapy, visit the Memphis Speech and Hearing Center to assist with communication disorders PreviousNext Take Action Give Now Check out the School Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebookLinkedIn Home Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Memphis Speech and Hearing Center The Memphis Speech and Hearing Center (MSHC) is one of the oldest centers of its kind in the United States and has been providing communication healthcare in the Memphis are since 1947. MSHC has served the Memphis area as part of the University of Memphis since 1967. Recently MSHC became part of the Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare team in 2016, working closely with partners at Le Bonheur Children's Hospital. We also work closely with the UTHSC Otolaryngology group. The licensed clinicians and their graduate clinician trainees diagnose and treat speech, language, cognitive, and hearing and balance problems that affect communication in children and adults. Our excellent clinical service providers see more than 5,000 patients and clients per year. Learn More Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Mission statement: To provide high-quality innovative services in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of communication disorders to residents of all ages in Memphis and surrounding areas, to provide educational and training opportunities to both clients and their families, and to provide clinical education opportunities for future professionals working with communication disorders. The Memphis Speech and Hearing Center was established in 1947 by its Board of Directors to provide a full range of clinical services to individuals with communication disorders. Since 1967, the Center has been affiliated with The University of Memphis. It's also the site of the UofM's School of Communication Sciences and Disorders. State-of-the-art research laboratories and a graduate education program, combined with the Center's well-respected clinical program, make it one of the premier speech and hearing facilities in the nation. The MSHC, Inc. Board of Directors established the Client Assistance Program which provides financial support to qualifying clients/patients and their families. In the 2020 fiscal year, the CAP program contributed over $57,000 on services and devices. Donate Now to CAP Fund The Center's professional staff provides speech, language, and hearing evaluations and offers treatment programs tailored to individual needs. A wide array of diagnostic equipment and materials makes it possible to evaluate communication problems experienced by clients of any age, from infants to adults. Based on evaluation results, clinicians work with clients, parents, and families to develop appropriate, functional treatment plans. Hearing Services Speech Services WHY CHOOSE US? WE CARE. Experienced Care The Memphis Speech and Hearing Center is part of the nationally recognized School of Communication Sciences and Disorders, which houses a State of Tennessee Center of Excellence: The Center for Research Initiatives and Strategies for the Communicatively Impaired (CRISCI). Let our more than 70 years of experience work for you. Compassionate Care The clinicians and MSHC staff care about your health and your potential, but most of all, we care about you. We provide individualized care in a safe and modern facility. We will help you understand the jargon and work toward your goals for better communication. Quality Care Our licensed clinicians offer several specialty clinics and programs that can be found nowhere else in the Memphis area. MSHC works closely with you, your family, and other members of your healthcare or educational team to provide current, evidence-based services. We are hiring! The University of Memphis School of Communication Sciences and Disorders is now accepting applications for a Speech Language Pathology Clinic Director. For more information and to apply, please visit https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/29966 Meet Our Team Make an appointment Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/8/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.