Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Hong Kong | Morningside Salon Events Past Event CAA Hong Kong | Morningside Salon Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo February 18, 2022 6:00 PM - 7:15 PM Asia/Hong_Kong Online Morningside Salon: What annual medical exams don't tell you? CUAAHK would like to cordially invite you to another Morningside Salon discussion with Mr. Miles Price, the founder of Peakmetabolism.com, a HK-based private health company focused on providing integrative personalized solutions for holistically optimizing health, primarily through disease prevention, as well as diagnosis and treatment for the root causes of a wide range of chronic diseases. In prior discussions, Mr. Price has shared with us a lot of valuable insights on healthy eating. Mr. Price studies the health paradox we are living in and questions how cancer, diabetes, and heart disease have become chronic diseases across Asia, among other health problems, despite access to high-standard healthcare and auto-immune practices. What can we do to avoid becoming a victim of these chronic diseases? Complying with the motto "Prevention is the Best Cure", the Annual Physical exam is an opportunity to practice early detection and intervention, yet few of us dare challenge or question the efficacy of the decades-old diagnostic tests on the typical menu. Find out which additional tests you should request to better mitigate and understand the risks of the following chronic diseases: Cancer Cardiovascular diseases Diabetes Neurodegenerative diseases Functional medicine is a new paradigm of healthcare that analyses the biometrics of the body to a new level which allows patients/healthy individuals to understand the very first signs of dysfunction in their body, and thus take remedial steps to stop chronic diseases from developing. Contact Information CAA Hong Kong [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close