Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate Graduate Centers People Research Blog Scholarships Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action DEI Resources Seminar Schedule Research and Program Facilities Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Biological Sciences Research Centers Biology Research Centers and Programs Bioinformatics Certificate Program Bioinformatics is an interdisciplinary field that combines mathematical and computer sciences with biology and/or medicine. With the recent advancements in biotechnology, biologists are frequently overloaded with large datasets that need to be stored and analyzed in automated ways. Bioinformatics provides the tools to understand complex biological systems ranging from entire ecological systems to specific human diseases, to cellular and molecular networks. Learn more about the Graduate Certificate in Bioinformatics that the department offers. Data Science also offers an MS program, which has a biomedical track option. Visit the MS program in Data Science website for full details. Center for Biodiversity Research (CBio) CBio is dedicated to advancing our knowledge of biodiversity at all levels of organization, from the molecular building blocks of life, to the biosphere, as well as the relationships between humans and biodiversity. We seek to increase the volume, impact and visibility of research at the UofM by encouraging, enabling, and supporting collaborative biodiversity research and graduate student training. Our work falls into three broadly overlapping focal areas of biodiversity science: (1) ecology, evolution, and organismal biology, (2) genetics, genomics and bioinformatics, and (3) conservation, global change, education, agriculture and urban environments. Visit their Center for Biodiversity Research website for more information. Edward J. Meeman Biological Station The Edward J. Meeman Biological Station is the department's primary field research and teaching venue for ecology, environmental biology, and natural history. A member of the Organization of Biological Field Stations (OBFS), the main station property consists of 623 acres of forests, ponds, and meadows that encompass upland areas of the Chickasaw bluffs as well as bottomland habitats near the Mississippi River. This habitat diversity and proximity to the largest river in North America makes Meeman Station an ideal location for research in both terrestrial and aquatic ecology. Moreover, being only 23 miles from the main campus and having both classroom and dormitory facilities, Meeman is able to provide students with a wealth of hands-on learning experiences in field course offered during regular semesters and summer sessions. Visit their Edward J. Meeman Biological Station for more information. Integrated Microscopy Center The Integrated Microscopy Center (IMC) is a resource facility of the University of Memphis. It provides expertise in the use of microscopy to students, faculty and researchers at the University of Memphis and throughout the immediate area. The IMC houses light microscopes and electron microscopes and ancillary equipment sample preparation. The IMC is accredited by the State of Tennessee and Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) to prepare clinical samples for electron microscopy. The IMC includes the new Materials Science Laboratory now open (located in the Integrated Microscopy Center in the basement of the Life Sciences Building). Featuring an X-ray photoelectron spectrometer (XPS) and a class 1000 clean room equipped with a deposition unit, photo-lithography station, wire bonder and spin coater, the Materials Science Lab is the first of its kind in west Tennessee. With professional staff and equipment enabling research and training for students, postdocs, and researchers in micro-fabrication and surface characterization, this facility significantly enhances the University's capabilities and competitiveness in the targeted growth area of interdisciplinary materials science. Visit their Integrated Microscopy Center website for more information. The University of Memphis Herbarium The University of Memphis Herbarium is a natural history collection consisting of over 18,000 plant specimens from scientific collections worldwide. Most of the accessions are vascular plants from the Southeastern US, with an emphasis on those of Tennessee and Kentucky. Orphaned for more than 30 years, the herbarium was revived in 2014 and is now accessioning new specimens with high quality data into the collection. All specimen data are published online and continually updated, and are freely available to researchers everywhere. The information generated by the collection is used for a wide variety of research interests including Climate change modeling Historical habitat and landscape mapping Tracking the introduction of pathogens and invasive species Phenology studies Production of floras Biogeography and diversification studies The herbarium itself is used to safely store the voucher specimens generated and used in plant research from the various labs on campus, to supply plant material for anatomical and genetic studies, as a tool for plant identification, and as a campus resource for teaching materials. Herbarium staff are conducting their own research on the vascular plants of West Tennessee and the Lower Mississippi River Basin. This area has not been well studied, and the reopening of the herbarium has been a catalyst for the renewed interest of regional botanists, students, and amateur naturalists. International collection code MEM. Visit the Herbarium. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/28/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.