Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Provost Provost right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet the Provost right arrow down arrow Event Request Form Leadership Committees Next Lives Here Initiatives right arrow down arrow COACHE Textbook Affordability UC Women Lead Program Dual Career Assistance Program Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program Decanal Searches Faculty right arrow down arrow Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure right arrow down arrow eRPT Collective Bargaining Agreement Resources right arrow down arrow Faculty Retention Program Proposal Process right arrow down arrow Distance Learning Programs Adjunct Resources Leaves of Absence Associations right arrow down arrow Latino Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Members Resources Events & Photo Gallery News Emeriti Association right arrow down arrow Membership LGBTQ Faculty and Staff Association Black Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Resources Events and News Committees Photo Gallery The Academy of Fellows - AFTL right arrow down arrow Members, Eligibility & Benefits Journal for Research & Practice in College Teaching Faculty Enrichment Center right arrow down arrow Programming and Resources Colleges and Offices right arrow down arrow Colleges Offices right arrow down arrow Faculty Affairs & Academic Personnel Enrollment Management Graduate School The Office of Institutional Research right arrow down arrow Facts & Dashboards College Financial Reporting Survey Research & Consulting Resources Contact Us UC International IT @ UC Student Affairs Undergraduate Studies right arrow down arrow Affiliated Offices Integrated Core Learning (ICL) General Education Core Contact Us Awards right arrow down arrow All-University Faculty Awards Home » About UC » Office of the Provost » Faculty » Associations » Latino Faculty Association » Members Set Navigation title in component Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure eRPT Collective Bargaining Agreement Resources Faculty Retention Program Proposal Process Distance Learning Programs Adjunct Resources Leaves of Absence Associations Latino Faculty Association About Members Resources Events & Photo Gallery News Emeriti Association Membership LGBTQ Faculty and Staff Association Black Faculty Association About Members Resources Events and News COBE Committees Scholarship Morale Career Advancement Photo Gallery The Academy of Fellows - AFTL Members, Eligibility & Benefits Journal for Research & Practice in College Teaching Faculty Enrichment Center Programming and Resources Members Submit your Bio As part of the Latino Faculty Association's efforts to increase visibility of Latino faculty on campus, the LFA will include photos and bios of full-time faculty on the website. Please fill out the form below to share your information with the LFA and to be featured on the new site. If you have any questions, please contact lfa@ucmail.uc.edu. Join the Faculty Listserv Want to contact the other Latino faculty on campus? Join the LFA Listserv. To join, send an email message with the subject line and message body as “Subscribe” followed by "UC-LFA" and your name. See the following example: To: UC-LFA@listserv.uc.edu Subject: Subscribe UC-LFA Jane Doe Body: Subscribe UC-LFA Jane Doe McMicken College of Arts & Sciences right arrow down arrow Andres Perez-Simon Associate Prof. of Spanish Andrés Pérez-Simón's book Drama, literatura, filosofía: Itinerarios del realismo y modernismo europeos (Madrid: Fundamentos, 2015) questions traditional historiographical accounts based on clear-cut distinction among literary and discursive genres to propose, instead, a more complex description of the converging lines among narrative, dramatic and philosophical texts in early-twentieth century Spain and Western Europe. This book has been reviewed in four academic journals: Anagnórisis, Tropelías, Journal of Comparative Aesthetics, and 452ºF. See the four reviews on Academia.edu. His second book is 'Despistemes': La teoría literaria y cultural de Emil Volek (antología de textos) (Madrid: Verbum, 2018). This volume contains fifteen essays in which the Czech researcher Emil Volek reflects in depth on different aspects of Latin American culture, especially the way in which it has been problematized by the intellectuals of the continent since the late nineteenth century and the way in which is taught today in the American academy under the supposed interdisciplinary paradigm of 'cultural studies'. The collection also includes a section specially dedicated to the destinies of literary theory from the beginning of the 20th century to the present day. Eight of the texts are published for the first time in Spanish, including five texts translated for the present volume by the editor Pérez-Simón, who also contextualizes Volek's work in the 60-page prologue that opens this volume. Available on Google Books. Prof. Pérez-Simón is currently completing the book-length manuscript Baroque Lorca: An Archaist Playwright fot the New Stage, under contract with Routledge. He was co-editor of the volume Structuralism(s) Today: Paris, Prague, Tartu (Ottawa: Legas Presss, 2009). He has published essays on world narrative, drama, film and literary theory. Some of his latest essays are: A Personal History of the 'American Hour' of Comparative Literature: Claudio Guillén in Conversation with Harry Levin, Conceptualizing the Hollywood Biopic, La ficción difícil: la escritura memorialista de Antonio Muñoz Molina, Manufacturing Authenticity: Anonymous Acting Celebrities in Atalaya’s Production of Lorca’s "The House of Bernarda Alba" (2009), Introducción a "La teoría de la Escuela de Praga", de Jirí Veltruský, The Concept of Metatheatre: A Functional Approach. He has published five book reviews: "The Discourse of Flanerie in Antonio Muñoz Molina's Texts" (Richard Sperber), View Full Profile Personal Website Brianna N. Leavitt-Alcántara Associate Professor, A&S History McMicken Hall 513-556-4478 leavitba@ucmail.uc.edu Brianna Leavitt-Alcántara teaches Latin American History, specializing in the colonial period, and is Director of Latin American, Caribbean, and Latinx Studies. Her research focuses on gender and religion in colonial and nineteenth-century Central America. Her book, Alone at the Altar: Single Women and Devotion in Guatemala, 1670-1870 (Stanford University Press, 2018), considers how non-elite single women forged complex alliances with the Catholic Church in Guatemala's colonial capital, and how those alliances significantly shaped local religion and the spiritual economy, late colonial reform efforts, and post-Independence politics. Her new book project, The Virgin's Wrath, examines gender relations, Mayan Catholicism, and violence in eighteenth-century Chiapas. She teaches survey courses on colonial Latin America as well as upper division courses on topics such as gender, religion, the Spanish Inquisition, and Afro-Latin America. View Full Profile C. J. Bolech Professor, A&S Physics 427 Geology-Physics Building 513-556-0529 bolechcs@ucmail.uc.edu Research Areas Strongly Correlated Quantum Systems (SCQS): This includes many-body and quantum-field theories, quantum fluids, integrable systems, quantum information and tensor networks, non-equilibrium transport, mesoscopic systems, ultracold atomic gases and optical lattices, unconventional superconductivity, strongly correlated electrons (e.g., quantum impurities and heavy fermions). Main interests Prof. Bolech is an applied mathematical physicist working mainly on the domains of theoretical Atomic-Molecular-Optical and Condensed-Matter&Materials physics (TAMOP and CMMT, respectively). From a technical perspective, his present TAMOP focus is on the use of generalized coherent states, tensor networks and non-linear optimization; while on the CMMT side he is currently focused on bosonization, renormalization and entanglement. His main interest is on SCQS. Strong correlations are one of the main theoretical (viz. computational and mathematical) challenges of current frontier problems in many areas of physics; ranging from condensed-matter to atomic, nuclear and particle physics. For example, strong nonlinear behaviours can be found in numerous systems such as heavy fermions, high-temperature superconductors, organic conductors, or quantum wires and dots (to the study of all of which he has contributed). Bolech's work combines the use and development of different computational and analytic non-perturbative approaches. These are applied to problems like the realization of exotic superconducting states of matter in optical lattices, the interplay of mixed valence and multi-channel Kondo physics in heavy fermions and quantum dots, the quantum tunneling of particles in correlated mesoscopic systems, the dynamics of vortices in quantum condensates, or the sudden expansion of interacting atomic gases. View Full Profile Personal Website Carlos M Gutiérrez Professor of Spanish, A&S Romance & Arabic Languages & Literat 726B Old Chemistry Building 513-556-1845 gutiercs@ucmail.uc.edu Research: Early Modern Spanish literary field and authorial self-fashioning. Publications: La recepción de Quevedo (1645-2010), (U de Navarra, 2011); La red ciega (Lima: Hipocampo, 2008; 2nd ed., NY: Digitalia, 2011; short stories); [see reviews & articles on my creative work]; La espada, el rayo y la pluma: Quevedo y los campos literario y de poder (Purdue UP, 2005; [a review]); Dejémonos de cuentos (Valladolid, 1994; short stories); book-chapters; reviews/articles in Hispanic Review, Boletín de la Bib. Menéndez Pelayo, Cervantes, Iberoamericana, Calíope, Romance Languages Annual, Perinola, Bulletin of the Comediantes, Etiópicas, or Espéculo. I've also collaborated in art projects and online exhibits with DAAP, Cincinnati Art Museum and Google Arts & Culture: http://cincinnatiartmuseum.org/art/exhibitions/online-exhibitions/frida/ https://artsandculture.google.com/exhibit/AQJSeywc0iFIIw I work on a book about Cervantes and direct the Madrid Summer Program. View Full Profile Personal Website Farrah Jacquez Associate Professor, A&S Psychology 4150N EDWARDS 1 Edwards Center 513-556-5124 jacquefh@ucmail.uc.edu Research program focused on partnering with communities to develop interventions to promote health equity. Current projects target Latino immigrant health and participatory research with youth around substance abuse and addiction. Courses Dr. Jacquez teaches include Community Psychology (graduate level) and Community Capstone (undergraduate level). View Full Profile Personal Website Isaac Peter Campos Associate Professor, A&S History 320D McMicken Hall 513-556-2527 camposip@ucmail.uc.edu Professor Campos teaches Latin American history. His main expertise is in modern Mexico and the history of illicit drugs. He is generally fascinated by the history of ideas, culture, and transnational phenomena. These interests are reflected in his book, Home Grown: Marijuana and the Origins of Mexico's War on Drugs (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 2012), which examines the development of marijuana's reputation for causing madness and violence in Mexico from the sixteenth century down to its nationwide prohibition in 1920. In the process, the book chronicles the development of prohibitionist approaches to drug use in Mexico and the origins of drug-war policies in that country. It also demonstrates how Mexican ideas of "reefer madness" deeply influenced how people came to understand this drug in the United States. He is currently at work on a history of illicit drugs in Mexico and greater North America between 1912 and 1940. Professor Campos has also worked for the National Security Archive where he did research on Mexico’s “dirty war” of the 1970s, Cuban-Mexican relations, and the War on Drugs since 1969. He teaches a variety of classes, from introductory surveys to graduate seminars. View Full Profile Leila Rodriguez Associate Professor, A&S Anthropology 450 Braunstein Hall 513-556-5783 rodrigla@ucmail.uc.edu Affiliate faculty, Department of Africana Studies Affiliate faculty, Department of Romance and Arabic Languages and Literatures Affiliate faculty, Department of Sociology Affiliate faculty, Latin American, Caribbean, and Latinx Studies Collaborator, Central American Population Center (University of Costa Rica) I am a cultural anthropologist and demographer whose research centers on the local integration dynamics of migrants. A second line of research examines the use of culture as judicial evidence – in the form of anthropological expert testimony – in legal conflicts that involve immigrants and refugees. Regional interests: Central America, Latin America, U.S. View Full Profile Personal Website Ligia C Gomez. Assistant Professor Educator gomezlc@ucmail.uc.edu Trained as a psychologist and with a degree in fine arts from Colombia, South America, Ligia worked for six years in a health care as an educator and health advocate with the Hispanic population in Cincinnati prior to becoming a full time faculty in the Romance Languages and Literature Department. Ligia serves as a liaison with many different organizations in the community. She is currently involved with several professional groups that work to improve the living conditions of the Hispanic/Latino population. Presently she is Chair of the Greater Cincinnati Latino Coalition, and a founding member of the Latino Health Collaborative. Her particular areas of interest at the University include Service Learning and Spanish for Health and Social Services. Ligia's continued involvement in the local Health Care community helps her to provide the students with access to many different relevant experiences related to this undeserved population. Ligia is the Director of Certificate of Spanish for Service Learning in Social Work and Health Care Services and have been involved in the new Medical Spanish/Latino Health Elective at The school of medicine. View Full Profile Maria Paz Moreno Professor of Spanish, A&S Romance & Arabic Languages & Literat 709 E Old Chemistry Building 513-556-1834 morenom@ucmail.uc.edu Prof. Moreno received her Licenciatura at the University of Alicante, Spain, and her Phd. at The Ohio State University. She works on Contemporary Spanish Poetry, Food Studies (Gastronomy and Culinary Literature), and Spanish Women Writers. She is the author of several scholarly books and critical editions, among them El culturalismo en la poesía de Juan Gil-Albert (2000), the critical edition of Juan Gil Albert, Poesía Completa (2004) and De la página al plato. El libro de cocina en España (2012). Her most recent monograph, Madrid: A Culinary History, was published by Rowman & Littlefield in 2018. As a poet, she has published nine books of poetry and has been included in several anthologies, among them Poetisas Españolas 1976-2001 (Ed. Torremozas, 2003), Mapa, Antología poética. 30 poetas valencianos en la democracia (Carena Ed, 2009), El poder del cuerpo (Ed. Castalia, 2009), and Nueva poesía alicantina (2000-2005) (IGA, 2016). Her bilingual poetry anthology From the Other Shore/ De la otra orilla was published in 2018 by Valparaiso Editors. Her most recent poetry book, Amiga del monstruo, was published by Ed. Renacimiento in 2020. View Full Profile Personal Website Nicasio Urbina Professor of Latin American Literature., A&S Romance & Arabic Languages & Literat 714 Old Chemistry Building 513-556-1838 urbinan@ucmail.uc.edu Professor Nicasio Urbina received his Ph.D. from Georgetown University. He works on literary criticism of contemporary Spanish American literature, with emphasis in Central American literature and culture. He has particular interest in genre theory, semiotics and narratology. He has taught seminars on the Latin American novel, the short story, Central American literature, creative writing, as well as thematic courses such as humor, myth and violence in Spanish American literature. He has published nine books of literary criticism, short stories, and poetry; and has edited nine books on different topics. Has published 99 articles of literary criticism, and 134 conferences and papers. In 2015 he received the Rieveschl Award for Creative and Scholarly Work. Personal website: www.nicasiourbina.com View Full Profile Personal Website Noe T Alvarez Assistant Professor, A&S Chemistry 418T Rieveschl Hall 832-623-3451 alvarene@ucmail.uc.edu My research interests are focused on carbon nanomaterials synthesis, assembly into macroscopic materials and their applications. Among the nanomaterials synthesized in my Lab are carbon nanotubes that are assembled into nanometer films and microscopic fibers with unique properties compared to macroscopic materials. Current applications are oriented to electrochemical and physiological sensors, as well as energy storage devices. I collaborate with faculty from engineering, Biology, and UC Medical school for the development of useful technological applications. Students in my group will be exposed to engineering aspects of nanomaterials development besides of the fundamental chemistry such as synthesis and electrochemistry. Noe Alvarez is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemistry. He received his Ph. D. in Chemistry from Rice University (2010), where he worked at the Richard Smalley Institute for Nanoscale Science and Technology under supervision of James M. Tour and Robert H. Hauge on multiple aspects of single-walled CNTs. He earned M.Sc. from McNeese State University (2004), and B.Sc. in Industrial Engineering at the Universidad Mayor de San Simon (Bolivia). After graduating from Rice he spent 6 months working on nanotube synthesis at the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST – Japan). He has received a NASA tech award (2011) for his contribution to the development of scientific and technical innovation. More details about his research at UC can be found at: http://www.alvarezlab.com View Full Profile Noris Rodriguez Educator Associate Professor rodrigns@ucmail.uc.edu Having organized the Study Abroad In Antigua, Gautemala/Spanish Immersion And Service Learning Program, my primary work is teaching upper-level undergraduate Spanish composition, conversation and grammar courses. One of my priorities is making sure to be available, several days each week, for one-on-one help to any students that are encountering special obstacles. It is also a pleasure to help undergraduate students with various Capstone projects, and to help out as a member of our Graduate Study Abroad committee. My teaching style continuously evolves to improve my classes' immediate practical value, for the newer waves of students who are destined to engage with increasingly multilingual societies. View Full Profile Nuria Rocio Lopez-Ortega Educator Associate Professor, A&S Romance & Arabic Languages & Literat 716-B Old Chemistry Building 513-556-1928 lopezonr@ucmail.uc.edu Director of Curriculum; Assistant Department Head. Areas of teaching: Spanish language (all levels) and Spanish Linguistics. Areas of academic interest: Spanish Linguistics; Second Language Learning and SLA; Pedagogy; Teacher Training; Study Abroad. Academic-related activities: writing collaborator and consultant for major foreign language publishing companies; dual-enrollment Spanish program mentor with local high schools; Spanish AP reader. View Full Profile Paula L. Silva Dr., A&S Psychology 4150H EDWARDS 1 Edwards Center 513-556-2397 silvapa@ucmail.uc.edu I received a Bachelor's degree in Physical Therapy from Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais - UFMG (Brazil) in 2000, a Master's degree in Rehabilitation Science also from UFMG in 2002, and a PhD degree in Experimental Psychology from the University of Connecticut in 2009. I also received formal training and a Certificate in Quantitative Methods from the University of Connecticut. I am currently an Associate Professor and Co-director of graduate training in the Psychology Department of the University of Cincinnati. I am also one of the primary faculty of the Center for Cognition, Action & Perception at the University of Cincinnati. I study human performance, both functional and dysfunctional, from the perspectives of complexity science and ecological psychology. My research primarily focuses on (a) the action strategies that individuals of different ages, with and without pathological conditions, employ when performing a variety of tasks, and (b) the perceptual capabilities that supports adaptability of action strategies to particular circumstances. I have three complimentary aims. The first is to examine and advance general theoretical principles to explain the coordination and perceptual regulation of biological movement that support successful performance in diverse circumstances. The second is to reveal and explain changes in action coordination and perceptual capabilities associated with pathological conditions. The third is to apply these principles in the design of methods to assess and enhance resilience of individuals with movement-related disability and those at risk for sports injury. My overarching goal is to promote effective cross-fertilization between theory and clinical practice in the fields of rehabilitation and sports medicine. Complete list of Journal Publications: https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&view_op=list_works&gmla=AJsN-F4CL3SrNy-iuSs5Alrk3OIvDRJyO6g0425q3xOwib09l8oZuCyFj6trqtE2ih84Yr_PXU2qhJk6m_AzKfgdeaAI7dnnZMnAKj4tMbYyrhHmA_RAoRU&user=z9FExgcAAAAJ View Full Profile Personal Website Quintino Rodrigues Mano Associate Professor, A&S Psychology 5130-C EDWARDS 1 Edwards Center 513-556-5409 manoqo@ucmail.uc.edu Dr. Mano is a clinical neuropsychologist with research and clinical interests in learning disorders (e.g., dyslexia, dyscalculia) and cognition-emotion interactions. Ongoing projects involve (1) statistical learning and reading, (2) application of Cattell’s Investment Theory to reading development across the lifespan, and (3) effect of cognition-emotion interactions on functional outcomes. Research participants range from preschoolers to university students. He relies primarily on methodologies from clinical and experimental neuropsychology (e.g., standardized tests, computerized tasks). To learn more about his research activities, please visit the Laboratory for Cognitive & Affective Neuropsychology. Dr. Mano also conducts clinical research within the Dyslexia Assessment & Diagnostic Services, of which Dr. Mano is the Director. The ultimate purpose of his research program is to develop novel neuropsychological tests and treatments for learning disorders. Lab website View Full Profile Personal Website Stephanie N Sadre-Orafai Associate Professor, Director of Undergraduate Studies, Co-Director of the Critical Visions Certificate Program, A&S Anthropology 448 Braunstein Hall 513-556-3569 sadreose@ucmail.uc.edu Affiliate Faculty, Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Affiliate Facuty, Film and Media Studies Affiliate Faculty, The Cincinnati Project Stephanie Sadre-Orafai is a sociocultural anthropologist whose research focuses on the production of difference and types among expert communities in the United States. Her ethnographic work examines media and cultural producers, emerging forms of expertise, the intersection of race, language, and visual practices in aesthetic industries, and forms of evidence and the body. She studied anthropology at the University of California, Berkeley (BA, 2000) and received her Ph.D. from the Department of Anthropology at New York University in 2010, when she also joined the faculty at UC. She co-edited Visual Anthropology Review, the journal of the Society for Visual Anthropology, a section of the American Anthropological Association from 2018–2021. Her essays on casting, model development, and fashion reality television have appeared in several edited volumes (PDFs). She is currently working on her first book, tentatively titled Real People, Real Models: Casting Race and Fashion in 21st Century America, which examines the history of casting in the New York fashion industry, the rise of non-professional or "real people" models, and how modeling and casting agents produce models' bodies as forms of media, creating new articulations of mediation, visibility, and difference in the process. Building on four years of ethnographic fieldwork in the New York fashion industry, the book explores the political implications of how these new articulations are refracted through idioms of beauty, desirability, and justice. She is also working on a comparative project, Type by Design, that explores the overlapping concerns of inanimate (typefaces) and animate (models) type production in the commercial font and high fashion modeling industries in New York City. In both sites, there are tensions between visibility and invisibility, legibility and aesthetic nuance, and the management of lay and expert visions in producing culturally recognizable types and individual faces. Joining together ethnographic and archival research, she examines the mutually vivifying and dehumanizing dimensions of type production and what their professional practices can reveal about underlying changes in cultural ideas of “difference” and how they are visually encoded across time, technologies, and markets. This project extends her earlier comparative work on fashion and policing, where she examined the temporal dimensions of mug shots alongside casting photographs, and the spatial dimensions of street scouting and stop-and-frisk practices. She co-directs the Critical Visions Certificate, a joint effort between faculty in the College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning and College of Arts and Sciences, which she established with Jordan Tate in 2011. The program is aimed at teaching students how to effectively combine critical theory and social analysis with art, media, and design practice. She co-edits CVSN, the experimental publication of student work from the program. Themes have included "space" (2013), "the future" (2015), "color" (2016), "surface" (2018), "identity" (2020), and "land/water" (2022). View Full Profile Yurena Yanes Assistant Professor, A&S Geology 520 Geology-Physics Building 513-556-8449 yanesya@ucmail.uc.edu My research program examines the response of biological communities to environmental and human stressors. The sustainability and integrity of ecological resources are increasingly uncertain as climate warms and Earth faces a biodiversity crisis. To remedy this situation, scientists must understand the magnitude, direction and rate of biotic responses to environmental and human impacts. However, environmental and anthropogenic factors operate simultaneously and therefore, they are difficult to discriminate using short-term ecological/human-lifespan scales. My work incorporates a longer-term (geological) dimension through three sequential intervals in the recent geologic past: (1) before humans, which I study with paleontological records, (2) during aboriginal (pre-industrial) occupation, by investigating archeological sources; and (3) in post-industrial times, by measuring modern and historical ecological records. The group of organisms I use to examine biotic-environment-human interactions belong to the Phylum Mollusca (primarily terrestrial gastropods) because they are plentiful, sensitive to environmental and human interference, and less investigated yet more threatened than other present-day major animal groups. To investigate molluscs, I integrate data and techniques from multiple disciplines including isotope geochemistry, taphonomy, paleoecology, Quaternary geochronology, archeology and the emerging field of conservation paleobiology. View Full Profile Personal Website J. Mauricio Espinoza Assistant Professor of Spanish and Latin American Literature/Cultural Studies , A&S Romance & Arabic Languages & Literat 710C Old Chemistry Building 513-556-1578 espinojm@ucmail.uc.edu My areas of research are Latin American cultural studies, Central American literature, and Latino/a studies. Within Latin American studies, I concentrate on film/TV and graphic narrative (comics and graphic novels). Within Central American literature, I study poetry and migration narratives. Finally, I study issues of migration, identity formation, and visual representation of Latinos/as in U.S. popular culture. In addition to research, I write original poetry and translate the work of Central American poets (particularly the twentieth-century Costa Rican poet Eunice Odio). View Full Profile Tony P Chemero Professor of Philosophy and Psychology , A&S Philosophy McMicken Hall 513-556-6324 chemeray@ucmail.uc.edu Tony Chemero got his Ph.D. in Philosophy and Cognitive Science from Indiana University in 1999. From then to 2012, he taught at Franklin & Marshall College (F&M), where he was Professor of Psychology. In 2012, he became Professor of Philosophy and Psychology at the University of Cincinnati. Tony’s research is both philosophical and empirical. It is focused on questions related to dynamical modeling, ecological psychology, artificial life and complex systems. He is author of more than 70 articles and the book Radical Embodied Cognitive Science (2009, MIT Press), which was a finalist for the Lakatos Award. His second book, co-authored with Stephan Kaufer, will appear on Polity Press. He is currently editing the second edition of the MIT Encyclopedia of the Cognitive Sciences. For more infomrmation, see Tony's pages at academia.edu or google scholar View Full Profile Personal Website Lindner College of Business right arrow down arrow Hernan Moscoso Boedo Assoc Professor, LCB Economics LINDHALL 513-556-5349 moscoshn@ucmail.uc.edu Hernan J. Moscoso Boedo is a macroeconomist, interested in Economic Development and Growth, as well as Macroeconomic Fluctuations. He has published in top field journals on issues related to international income differences, technological adoption, and macroeconomic fluctuations. Hernan earned his Bachelor Degree from the University of Buenos Aires, Argentina, and his MSc and PhD from the University of Wisconsin - Madison. Before coming to Cincinnati, he was an Assistant Professor at the University of Virginia. View Full Profile Personal Website College-Conservatory of Music right arrow down arrow C. Catherine Losada Professor of Music Theory, CCM Composition, Musicology & Theory 4225L Emery Hall 513-556-9567 losadacc@ucmail.uc.edu Professor Catherine Losada, PhD., is a music theorist whose research interests include post-tonal music, the music of Pierre Boulez, advanced serial techniques, transformational theory, the musical collage, and music written after 1950. At CCM, Losada regularly teaches tonal theory, twentieth-century theory and analysis, set theory, a seminar on transformational theory, and other seminars involving recent developments in the application of mathematical approaches to music theory and analysis. She has been published in Music Theory Spectrum (2009 and 2014), Journal of Music Theory, Mitteilungen der Paul Sacher Stiftung (2018), Music Analysis, Music Theory Online (2007 and 2019), Music Theory and Analysis, Journal of Mathematics and Music, Quaderni di Matematica and Twentieth-Century Music and Mathematics. She has served on the Executive Board of the Society for Music Theory and as president of Music Theory Midwest. She is currently working on a monograph on serial techniques in the music of Pierre Boulez. Losada is the recipient of a Fulbright Specialist Grant, the Outstanding Publication Award from the Society for Music Theory, a Third Century Faculty Research Grant, a Publications Subventions Grant from the Society for Music Theory, a Paul Sacher Foundation Grant, a University Research Council Grant, and a University Research Council Faculty Summer Fellowship for research conducted at the Sacher Foundation in Basel, Switzerland. She delivered a keynote address at the 9th International Conference on Arts and Humanities (Queretaro, Mexico, 2019), as well as papers at international events including a special symposium, "Concepts of Harmony in Musical Composition 1945-1975" (Venice, 2019), "An International Symposium and Workshop Series in Music Theory at the China University" (Beijing, 2018), EuroMAC (Strasbourg, France, 2017), IMS (the conference of the International Musicological Society, Stavanger, Norway, 2016), KeeleMac (the conference of the Society for Music Analysis, Keele, UK, 2015), the McGill Workshop on Italian Serialism of the 1950s (Montreal, 2010), the First International Conference of the Society for Mathematics and Computation in Music (Berlin, 2007), and the Fourth Biennial International Conference on Twentieth-Century Music (University of Sussex, 2005). She has also presented her research at the annual meetings of the Society for Music Theory (Seattle, 2004; Cambridge, 2005; Los Angeles, 2006; Minneapolis, 2011; New Orleans, 2012; Charlotte, 2013; Milwaukee, 2014; Vancouver 2016), the American Musicological Society (2019), as well as many regional conferences. View Full Profile Miguel A. Roig-Francoli Distinguished Teaching Professor of Music Theory and Composition, CCM Composition, Musicology & Theory 4225J Emery Hall 513-556-1821 roigfrma@ucmail.uc.edu Miguel Roig-Francolí, Ph.D., Distinguished Teaching Professor of Music Theory and Composition, has been recognized internationally for his work as a music theorist, composer, musicologist and pedagogue. His research interests include Renaissance instrumental music and history of theory, the music of Tomás Luis de Victoria, twentieth-century music, and music theory pedagogy. At CCM, he regularly teaches history of theory, sixteenth-century counterpoint, post-tonal theory, music theory pedagogy, and a seminar on the analysis of early music. He is the author of Harmony in Context (McGraw-Hill, 2nd edn., 2011) and Understanding Post-Tonal Music (McGraw-Hill, 2007; Chinese translation, Beijing: People's Music Publishing House, 2012; Routledge, 2nd edn, 2021). He has published over twenty articles and reviews in Music Theory Spectrum, Journal of Music Theory, Early Music, Revista de Musicología, Notes, Indiana Theory Review, Journal of Musicological Research, College Music Symposium, Analisi: Rivista de Teoria e Pedagogia Musicale, New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, Diccionario de la música española e hispanoamericana, and several collections of essays. He has presented papers at numerous conferences, including several annual meetings of the Society for Music Theory, American Musicological Society, and Music Theory Midwest. Roig-Francolí has also taught at the Eastman School of Music, Northern Illinois University, Indiana University, and Ithaca College, and has been invited to lecture internationally at the Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Shanghai Conservatory, and EAFIT University in Colombia. Roig-Francolí’s compositions have been widely performed in Spain, England, Germany, France, Italy, Switzerland, Greece, Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, Canada, and the U.S., including a 2013 monographic chamber concert at Weill Hall (Carnegie Hall), and he has held commissions from the National Orchestra and Chorus of Spain, Spanish National Radio, Fundación Juan March, Rawlins Piano Trio, Institut Ramon Llull, and the Foundation for Iberian Music (CUNY). His compositions are published by EMEC, Piles, Fundación Juan March (Madrid), and Perennis Music Publishing. Among his many honors are first prize at the National Composition Competition of the Spanish Jeunesses Musicales (1981) and second prize at the UNESCO International Rostrum of Composers (Paris, 1982), both for Five Pieces for Orchestra; the Dean’s Dissertation Prize, Indiana University (1991); the Dana Research Fellow Award, Ithaca College (1992); grants from the US-Spain Joint Committee for Cultural and Educational Affairs, Spanish Ministry of Culture, Ithaca College, Northern Illinois University, and the University of Cincinnati; the Medal of Honor from the Superior Conservatory of Music of the Balearic Islands (2004); the University of Cincinnati’s A.B. "Dolly" Cohen Award for Excellence in Teaching (2007) and George Rieveschl Jr. Award for Creative and/or Scholarly Work (2009); 2010 Ramón Llull Prize of the Government of the Balearic Islands (Spain); the 2013 Distinguished Teaching Professor Award from the University of Cincinnati; and the 2016 American Prize in Composition (band/wind ensemble division). View Full Profile Personal Website College of Design, Architecture, Art, & Planning right arrow down arrow Flavia Maria Cunha Bastos Professor, DAAP School of Art 210B Van Wormer Hall 513-556-2872 bastosf@ucmail.uc.edu Flávia Bastos, Ph.D., is a Distinguished Research Professor in Visual Arts Education, in the School of Art, University of Cincinnati. Her research and scholarship are indebted to her Brazilian roots, experiences with social and cultural diversity and inspired by the educational philosophy of educator Paulo Freire. Therefore, art education practices are fueled by progressive education ideas that honor the artistic potential and celebrate possibilities and talents of all people. Flávia’s recent accomplishments include being Chairperson of the Council of Policy Studies in Art Education, Distinguished Fellow of the National Art Education Association, and past- Director of the Higher Education Division of the National Art Education Association. She received the. University of Cinicnnati 2020 Distinguished Research Professor Award, the 2009 the Ziegefeld Award of the International Society for Education through Art (InSEA) for her distinguished service in international art education and the 2007 the Mary J. Rouse Award of the National Art Education Association Women’s Caucus. She is past senior editor of the Journal of Art Education and has published and lectured extensively in the United States and other countries such as such as South Africa, Brazil, Chile, Indonesia, Spain, and Portugal. Her books include Transforming City Schools through Art: Approaches to Meaningful K-12 Learning, a co-edited volume published by Teachers College Press (2012), and the anthology Connecting Creativity Research and Practice in Art Education: Foundations, Pedagogies, and Contemporary Issues (2015), released by the National Art Education Association. View Full Profile Juan Antonio Antonio Islas Munoz Assistant Professor of Practice Antonio Islas is a Master of Design, class of 2013, from the University of Cincinnati. He received his bachelor in Industrial Design from Universidad Autónoma de San Luis Potosi in Mexico in 2007, where he worked at Rigoletti Casa de Diseño, an industrial and automotive design school and consultancy, from 2007-2011. In addition, he worked on international toy design, manufacturing, and sourcing projects. He obtained a Fulbright Scholarship in 2011 and came to DAAP for graduate school, where he did research on the semantic perception of automotive design aesthetics and the use of digital sculpting software and its applications to automotive design. He has taught at DAAP since 2013, first as adjunct, later as visiting faculty, and currently as Assistant Professor of Practice, teaching courses from the 1st to the 5th year of the Industrial Design program. He is currently the Head of Transportation Design where he leads multidisciplinary, future vision innovation projects that impact vehicles, city infrastructure, and how people live their mobility experience. He also leads the Industrial Design visualization and communication track of courses. During his period as a DAAP faculty, he has collaborated with companies such as General Motors, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, Crown Lift Trucks, Boeing, P&G, Cincinati Children's Hospital, United Healthcare and AARP. View Full Profile College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services right arrow down arrow Alicia Maria Cintron Assistant Professor Sport Administration cintroam@mail.uc.edu Dr. Cintron holds a B.S. in Sport Management from Old Dominion University and a M.S. and Ph.D. in Sport Administration from the University of Louisville. Her research area focuses on underrepresented populations in and around sport. View Full Profile Andrea L Buenano Assistant Professor Sport Administration, CECH Human Services 436-D Teachers College 513-556-1719 buenanaa@ucmail.uc.edu Dr. Andrea L. Buenaño (Assistant Professor - Educator) joined the Sport Administration (SPAD) faculty in the Fall of 2017. Dr. Buenaño has degrees in Higher Education Leadership, Organizational Leadership, and Sport Administration. Prior to her arrival at UC, she was a Sport Management Instructor at the University of North Florda. Dr. Buenaño has more than 12 years of sport industry experience that includes being a Division I student-athlete and working in professional sport, recreational sport, interscholastic athletics, Division II athletics and most recently Division I athletics at Penn State University. Dr. Buenaño oversees the majority experiential learning courses for the undergraduate Sport Admin program. Most recently, she is the recipient of the College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services - Golden Apple Teaching Award Winner (2019-2020 & 2020-2021). View Full Profile Angel Añorga Assoc Professor, UCBA Foreign Language M275G BA MUNTZ 513-558-1467 anorgaal@ucmail.uc.edu "If you talk to a man in a language he understands, that goes to his head. If you talk to him in his language, that goes to his heart." Nelson Mandela "Literature is the expression of a feeling of deprivation, a recourse against a sense of something missing. But the contrary is also true: language is what makes us human. It is a recourse against the meaningless noise and silence of nature and history." Octavio Paz "Education is what remains after one has forgotten what one has learned in school." Albert Einstein View Full Profile Liliana Rojas Guyler Associate Professor Health Promotion And Education, CECH Human Services 460B Teachers College 513-556-0993 guylerlr@ucmail.uc.edu Liliana Rojas-Guyler, PhD, FESG, CHES© is an Associate Professor of Health Promotion & Education. Dr. Liliana Rojas-Guyler earned her doctorate degree from Indiana University in Bloomington where she majored in Health Behavior and minored in Human Sexuality Education and in Instructional Systems Technology (2002). She earned two degrees from the University of Florida in Gainesville, a Bachelor’s degree in Health Education majoring in Community Health in 1995 and a Master’s degree in Health Education with emphasis in Public Health in 1996. She is certified by the National Commission for Health Education Credentialing as a Certified Health Education Specialist and an Eta Sigma Gamma National Fellow. Dr. Rojas-Guyler has published and presented widely on minority health issues, particularly those relating to Latina health. Her research agenda includes determinants of health among vulnerable populations (e.g. people who have disabilities and immigrants), health behaviors, the influence of culture, and professional preparation needs of future health educators to address cultural appropriateness in health program planning. Her most recent research includes: a) assessing the health status changes over the last decade of Latinos in the Greater Cincinnati Area, b) assessing Disability Awareness and Self-Efficacy of Health Education students, and c) assessing the connection of Social Media Use, Body Image, Cultural Identity, and Exercise Patterns among African American and Latinos among other projects. Dr. Rojas-Guyler has published in Health Behavior, Health Promotion Practice, The Health Educator, the American Journal of Health Education, the Journal of Health Care for the Poor and Underserved, Family and Community Health, and the Journal of Religion and Health among others. Dr. Rojas-Guyler is dedicated to inclusion of students in collaborative research teams. She is experienced in qualitative and quantitative evaluation and research, and is knowledgeable and proficient conducting program evaluation and continuous improvement. Dr. Rojas-Guyler is an active professional in her field. She serves as a reviewer for several professional journals and is a member of the editorial board for The Health Educator. She has worked at the national level with Eta Sigma Gamma, the national honorary for her profession, the Society for Public Health Education, and has held membership with several other organizations including the APHA, SOPHE & ESG among others. She has served the community and is currently a member of Interact for Health’s Community Involvement Committee and a research consultant for the Latino Community Health Status Survey (IH). View Full Profile Michael Odio Associate Professor Sport Administration, CECH Human Services 436L Teachers College 305-609-4014 odioml@ucmail.uc.edu Michael Odio is an Associate Professor of Sport Administration at the University of Cincinnati and holds a Ph.D. in Sport Management from the University of Florida. His scholarly interests include organizational behavior and human resource issues in sport as well as career and learning outcomes for nonstandard employees (e.g., temporary, seasonal, part-time) and internships. View Full Profile College of Medicine right arrow down arrow Alberto J. Espay Division Director, Research Endowed Chair; James J. and Joan A. Gardner Family Center for Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders, COM Neurology Movement 2216 One Stetson Square 513-558-4035 espayaj@ucmail.uc.edu View Full Profile Alessandro de Alarcón Director, Center for Pediatric Voice Disorders; Medical Director, Complex Airway Unit, COM Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery 315 Childrens Hospital Bldg R 513-636-2521 dealara@ucmail.uc.edu View Full Profile Javier Gonzalez Del Rey Professor of Clinical-Affiliate, COM Pediatrics Emergency Medicine Childrens Hospital Bldg R 513-636-7918 gonzalj@ucmail.uc.edu View Full Profile Maria A. Calvo-Garcia Professor of Clinical-Affiliate, COM Radiology Pediatrics Childrens Hospital Bldg R 513-636-6696 calvogma@ucmail.uc.edu View Full Profile Personal Website Maria H. Alonso pecletmh@ucmail.uc.edu View Full Profile Maria Fernanda Espinola View Full Profile Moises A. Huaman Associate Professor of Clinical, COM IM Infectious Diseases Division 3112 UCMC-HOLMES 513-584-5897 huamanms@ucmail.uc.edu View Full Profile Sadia Benzaquen Associate Professor, Department of Internal Medicine, UC College of Medicine Director, Interventional Pulmonary View Full Profile Sergio Delgado Professor of Clinical-Affiliate, COM Psychiatry Affiliate Programs-CCHMC Childrens Hospital Bldg R 513-636-8101 delgads@ucmail.uc.edu View Full Profile Diego Morita Assistant Professor Childrens Hospital Bldg R 513-636-5346 diego.morita@cchmc.org View Full Profile James L. Winkle College of Pharmacy right arrow down arrow Ana L. Hincapie Associate Professor, Pharmacy Hincapie Research 361 Kowalewski Hall 513-558-7808 hincapaa@ucmail.uc.edu Dr. Hincapie has an established background in medication safety and quality improvement in health care. In addition to her faculty position, she is the coordinator for ambulatory pharmacy resources for St. Elizabeth Physicians. She has co-authored two book chapters related to medication safety and quality improvement. She teaches in the following programs: Doctor of Pharmacy , Pharmacy Leadership, and PhD/MS in Pharmaceutical Sciences-Health Outcomes Track View Full Profile Personal Website UC Blue Ash right arrow down arrow María I Ortiz Ph.D. Associate Professor Educator, UCBA Foreign Language 267G BA MUNTZ 513-558-7909 ortizmi@ucmail.uc.edu Dr. María I. Ortiz is from San Germán, Puerto Rico and has a Bachelor of Arts in Humanities, with a specialization in Comparative Literature at the University of Puerto Rico at Mayagüez, where she graduated Suma Cum Laude in June of 2000, and received the UPRM Donald Marshall Award as Outstanding Humanities Student. Following graduation, she taught at a local high school as a Certified Spanish High School Teacher of the Department of Education of Puerto Rico. For her graduate studies, María went to the University of Cincinnati, where she completed her Masters degree in Spanish in 2004, and in June of 2007, she received her Philosophy Doctorate Ph.D on Romance Languages and Literatures. She is teaching Spanish as a foreign language at the University of Cincinnati, Blue Ash College, leading courses focused on culture, grammar, and communication. Also, she is Co-Director of the Learning and Teaching Center at UC Blue Ash since September of 2022. Previously, she has been inducted to the University’s Academy of Fellows in Teaching & Learning (AFTL) as a distinguished member of the Class of 2021. In 2020, she was awarded with the University of Cincinnati's Mrs. A.B. Dolly Cohen Award for Excellence in Teaching (the University’s highest level and honor that recognizes achievements and contributions to teaching -- and a student nominated award), as well as the recognition as Excellence in Teaching Awardee for the 33rd Annual Celebration of Teaching 2020 of The Greater Cincinnati Collegiate Connection Consortium (GC3). Also, Dr. Ortiz was recognized with the 2017 UCBA Innovative Teaching Award for implementation of the integration of mindfulness practices and technology for teaching Spanish language. She is a member of the UC Latino Faculty Association (LFA). Dr. Ortiz shared her love for literature by teaching English Comparative literature during the summer of 2019, as part of the expert faculty exchange at Xi’an International Studies University in Xi'an, China. In 2017, Dr. Ortiz led efforts to assist Puerto Rican college students with online courses after Hurricane Maria devastated the island. She worked with the University of Cincinnati's Provost Office and colleagues nationwide to recruit and develop Sagrado Online Collaborative, a network of Spanish-speaking professors who remotely taught students through the Universidad del Sagrado Corazón in Puerto Rico. Research and publications include cultural studies perspective(s) and literary theory to analyze the relationship and interactions between food, gastronomy, identity, Thirdspace, gender, performance and post colonial studies, as well as pedagogical strategies and activities for active learning classrooms. Her service work is committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion programs and practices, providing acknowledgement and support for the needs of underrepresented groups. She is a volunteer of the Mosaic Council Member of the Alzheimer's Association of Greater Cincinnati. View Full Profile UC Clermont right arrow down arrow David G.C. Madrid Assistant Professor, CC Foreign Language CC West Woods Acad Cntr 513-558-8413 gomezcdm@ucmail.uc.edu Dr. David Gomez-Cambronero Madrid is an Assistant Professor of Spanish at theDepartment English, Langauge and Fine Arts at the University of Cincinnati's Clermont College campus. His primary research fields include 19th, 20th and 21st century Spanish poetry and he is currently working on his doctoral thesis entitled In Search of Elysium: Spanish Poetry of Diferencia at the Dawn of the 20th century. His ancillary interests include Spanish Golden Age and 20th century Avant-Garde theatre as well as theories on social systems. He has taught all levels of basic Spanish, is currently teaching an Online Spanish section, and will be an assistant teacher for a 19th and 20th century Spanish Novel course. Additionaly, he has chaired the 2013 Romance Lanuage Conference and is currently the Editorial Assistant of the Cincinnati Romance Review journal (cromrev.com). He has a journal article under revision and is completing a personal book of poetry. View Full Profile Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top