Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Natural Sciences Astrophysical Sciences Access Course Offerings AST 203 The Universe Professor/InstructorMichael Abram Strauss, Christopher F. Chyba, Jo Dunkley This specially designed course targets the frontier of modern astrophysics. Subjects include the planets of our solar system; the birth, life, and death of stars; the search for extrasolar planets and extraterrestrial life; the zoo of galaxies from dwarfs to giants, from starbursts to quasars; dark matter and the large-scale structure of the universe; Einstein's special and general theory of relativity, black holes, neutron stars, and big bang cosmology. This course is designed for the non-science major and has no prerequisites past high school algebra and geometry. High school physics would be useful. AST 204 Topics in Modern Astronomy Professor/InstructorJoshua Nathan Winn The solar system and planets around other stars; the structure and evolution of stars; supernovae, neutron stars, and black holes; gravitational waves; the formation and structure of galaxies; cosmology, dark matter, dark energy, and the history of the entire universe. Prerequisites: PHY 103 or 105 and MAT 103 or 104 or equivalent. Compared to AST 203, this course employs more mathematics and physics. Intended for quantitatively-oriented students. AST 205 Planets in the Universe Professor/InstructorGáspár Áron Bakos This is an introductory course in astronomy focusing on planets in our Solar System, and around other stars (exoplanets). The course starts with reviewing the formation, evolution and characterization of the Solar system. Following an introduction to stars, the course will then discuss the exciting new field of exoplanets; discovery methods, basic properties, earth-like planets, and extraterrestrial life. Core values of the course are quantitative analysis and hands-on experience, including telescopic observations. This SEN course is designed for the non-science major and has no prerequisites past high school algebra and geometry. GEO 207 / AST 207 A Guided Tour of the Solar System Professor/InstructorThomas S. Duffy Examines the major bodies of our solar system, emphasizing their surface features, internal structures, and atmospheres. Topics include the origin of the solar system, habitability of planets, and the role of impacts in planetary evolution. Terrestrial and giant planets will be studied as well as satellites, comets, and asteroids. Recent discoveries from planetary missions are emphasized. This course is aimed primarily at non-science majors. Three lectures, this course is normally taught in the fall. AST 255 / CHM 255 / GEO 255 Life in the Universe Professor/InstructorChristopher F. Chyba, Edwin Lewis Turner, Michael H. Hecht This course introduces students to a new field, Astrobiology, where scientists trained in biology, chemistry, astrophysics and geology combine their skills to investigate life's origins and to seek extraterrestrial life. Topics include: the origin of life on earth, the prospects of life on Mars, Europa, Titan, Enceladues and extra-solar planets, as well as the cosmological setting for life and the prospects for SETI. AST 255 is the core course for the planets and life certificate. AST 301 / PHY 321 General Relativity Professor/InstructorJeremy J. Goodman This is an introductory course in general relativity for undergraduates. Topics include the early universe, black holes, cosmic strings, worm holes, and time travel. Designed for science and engineering majors. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisites: MAT 201 and 202, OR MAT 203 and 204. Also PHY 205 or 207. PHY 304 is recommended. AST 303 Deciphering the Universe: Research Methods in Astrophysics Professor/InstructorPeter Michael Melchior, Matthew Walter Kunz How do we observe and model the universe? We discuss the wide range of observational tools available to the modern astronomer: from space-based gamma-ray telescopes, to globe-spanning radio interferometers, to optical telescopes and particle detectors. We review basic statistics, introduce techniques used to interpret modern data sets containing millions of galaxies and stars, and describe numerical methods used to model these data. The course is problem-set-based and focused on tools needed for independent research in astrophysics. PHY103/104 or 105/106, and MAT103/104 required. AST204 and programming experience are helpful but not required. AST 309 / MAE 309 / PHY 309 / ENE 309 The Science of Fission and Fusion Energy Professor/InstructorRobert James Goldston We develop the scientific ideas behind fission and fusion energy. For fission we move from elementary nuclear physics to calculations of chain reactions, understanding how both reactors and nuclear weapons work. We examine safety and waste concerns, as well as nuclear proliferation. We look at new reactor concepts. For fusion we address the physics of confining hot, ionized gases, called plasmas. We address the control of large-scale instabilities and small-scale turbulence. We examine progress and prospects, as well as challenges, for the development of economically attractive fusion power. GEO 374 / AST 374 Planetary Systems: Their Diversity and Evolution Professor/Instructor Examines the diversity of recently discovered planetary systems in terms of fundamental physical and chemical processes and what this diversity implies about the origin and evolution of our own planetary system. Topics include: the formation and dynamics of planets and satellites, planetary migration, the evolution of planetary interiors, surfaces and atmospheres, the occurrence of water and organics, and the habitability of planets and planetary systems. Recent discoveries from planetary missions and extrasolar planet observations are emphasized. Prerequisites: GEO 207, 255, or instructor's permission. Two 90-minute lectures. AST 401 / PHY 401 Cosmology Professor/InstructorNeta A. Bahcall Topics include the properties and nature of galaxies, quasars, clusters, superclusters, the large-scale structure of the universe, dark matter, dark energy, the formation and evolution of galaxies and other structures, microwave background radiation, and the evolution of the universe from the Big Bang to today. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisites: MAT 201, 202; PHY 207, 208. Designed for science and engineering majors. AST 403 / PHY 402 Stars and Star Formation Professor/InstructorEve Charis Ostriker Stars form by the gravitational collapse of interstellar gas clouds, and as they evolve, stars return some of their gas to the interstellar medium; altering its physical state and chemical composition. This course discusses the properties and evolution of the gaseous and stellar components of a galaxy; the physics of the diffuse and dense interstellar medium, the theory and observations of star formation; stellar structure; energy production and nucleosynthesis; stellar evolution; and stellar end states. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisites: MAT 202; PHY 207, 208. APC 524 / MAE 506 / AST 506 Software Engineering for Scientific Computing Professor/Instructor The goal of this course is to teach basic tools and principles of writing good code, in the context of scientific computing. Specific topics include an overview of relevant compiled and interpreted languages, build tools and source managers, design patterns, design of interfaces, debugging and testing, profiling and improving performance, portability, and an introduction to parallel computing in both shared memory and distributed memory environments. The focus is on writing code that is easy to maintain and share with others. Students will develop these skills through a series of programming assignments and a group project. AST 513 Dynamics of Stellar and Planetary Systems Professor/InstructorJeremy J. Goodman Discussion of observations of stars in the solar neighborhood, the overall structure of our galaxy, and external galaxies; stellar populations and the evolution of the stellar content of galaxies; dynamical theory of the equilibrium and stability of stellar systems; and relaxation, dynamical friction, and the introduction to the Fokker-Planck equation; evolution of N-body systems. AST 514 Structure of the Stars Professor/InstructorAdam S. Burrows Theoretical and numerical analysis of the structure of stars and their evolution. Topics include a survey of the physical process important for stellar interiors (equation of state, nuclear reactions, transport phenomena); macroscopic properties of stars and their stability; evolution of single and binary stars; mass loss and accretion of matter; and accretion disks. Emphasis is given to numerical modeling of various types of stars. AST 517 Diffuse Matter in Space Professor/InstructorBruce T. Draine Subject of course is the astrophysics of the interstellar medium: theory and observations of the gas, dust, plasma, energetic particles, magnetic field, and electromagnetic radiation in interstellar space. Emphasis will be on theory, including elements of: fluid dynamics; excitation of atoms, molecules and ions; radiative processes; radiative transfer; simple interstellar chemistry; and physical properties of dust grains.The theory will be applied to phenomena including: interstellar clouds (both diffuse atomic clouds and dense molecular clouds); HII regions; shock waves; supernova remnants; cosmic rays; interstellar dust; and star formation. AST 522 Extragalactic Astronomy Professor/InstructorMichael Abram Strauss, Jenny E. Greene A survey course covering the principal current areas of research on extragalactic objects, their physical properties, origin, evolution, and distribution in space. Topics covered include quasar physics, formation, evolution, and clustering of galaxies and the general problem of large-scale structure and motion in the universe. APC 523 / AST 523 / MAE 507 Numerical Algorithms for Scientific Computing Professor/InstructorGregory Wayne Hammett A broad introduction to scientific computation using examples drawn from astrophysics. From computer science, practical topics including processor architecture, parallel systems, structured programming, and scientific visualization will be presented in tutorial style. Basic principles of numerical analysis, including sources of error, stability, and convergence of algorithms. The theory and implementation of techniques for linear and nonlinear systems of equations, ordinary and partial differential equations will be demonstrated with problems in stellar structure and evolution, stellar and galactic dynamics, and cosmology. PHY 564 / AST 524 Physics of the Universe Professor/InstructorPaul Joseph Steinhardt, David N. Spergel This course spans a wide range of advanced concepts in contemporary cosmology including inflation, the cyclic universe, dark matter and dark energy, and how they can be explored through cosmological observations of the cosmic microwave background and large scale structure. The course will be closely linked to the Princeton Center for Theoretical Physics Fall 2008 program on the Big Bang and Beyond, including weekly precept meetings with seminar speakers. AST 541 Seminar in Theoretical Astrophysics Professor/Instructor Designed to stimulate students in the pursuit of research. Participants in this seminar discuss critically papers given by seminar members. Ordinarily, several staff members also participate. Often topics are drawn from published data that present unsolved puzzles of interpretation. AST 542 Seminar in Observational Astrophysics Professor/InstructorJoshua Nathan Winn Students will prepare and deliver presentations and lead discussion about topics of current interest in observational astrophysics and techniques. AST 551 / MAE 525 General Plasma Physics I Professor/InstructorNathaniel J. Fisch, Hong Qin This is an introductory course to plasma physics, with sample applications in fusion, space and astrophysics, semiconductor etching, microwave generation: characterization of the plasma state, Debye shielding, plasma and cyclotron frequencies, collision rates and mean-free paths, atomic processes, adiabatic invariance, orbit theory, magnetic confinement of single-charged particles, two-fluid description, magnetohydrodynamic waves and instabilities, heat flow, diffusion, kinetic description, and Landau damping. The course may be taken by undergraduates with permission of the instructor. AST 552 General Plasma Physics II Professor/InstructorHantao Ji Ideal magnetohydrodynamic (MDH) equilibrium, MHD energy principle, ideal and resistive MHD stability, drift-kinetic equation, collisions, classical and neoclassical transport, drift waves and low-frequency instabilities, high-frequency microinstabilities, and quasilinear theory. AST 553 Plasma Waves and Instabilities Professor/InstructorIlya Yevgenyevich Dodin Hydrodynamic and kinetic models of nonmagnetized and magnetized plasma dispersion; basic plasma waves and their applications; basic instabilities; mechanisms of collisionless dissipation; geometrics-optics approximation, including ray tracing, field-theoretical description of continuous waves, and ponderomotive effects; conservation laws and transport equations for the wave action, energy, and momentum; mode conversion; quasilinear theory. AST 554 Irreversible Processes in Plasmas Professor/InstructorMatthew Walter Kunz Introduction to theory of fluctuations and transport in plasma. Origins of irreversibility, Random walks, Brownian motion and diffusion, Langevin and Fokker-Planck theory. Fluctuation-dissipation theorem; test-particle superposition principle. Statistical closure problem. Derivation of kinetic equations from BBGKY hierarchy and Klimontovich formalism; properties of plasma collision operators. Classicaal transport coefficients in magnetized plasmas; Onsager symmetry. Introduction to plasma turbulence, including quasilinear theory. Applications to current problems in plasma research. AST 555 Fusion Plasmas & Plasma Diagnostics Professor/InstructorPhilip Charles Efthimion, Richard P. Majeski, Yevgeny Raitses This course gives an introduction to experimental plasma physics, with an emphasis on high-termperature plasmas for fusion. Requirements for fusion plasmas: confinement, beta, power and particle exhaust. Tokamak fusion reactors. Status of experimental understanding: what we know and how we know it. Key plasma diagnostic techniques: magnetic measurements, Langmuir probes, microwave techniques, spectroscopic techniques, electron cyclotron emission, Thomson scattering. Load More More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice