Skip to main content University of Washington Research Contact Us About Office of Research Announcements UW Home Quick Links MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Plan/Propose Overview Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Recruit Team Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Submit Proposal Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Setup Setup Overview Sponsor Requirements Facilities and Resources Financials Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Data Collection Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Manage Manage Overview Financials Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Facilities and Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Reporting Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Closeout Closeout Overview Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Resources Support Offices Human Subjects Division Office of Animal Welfare Office of Research Central Office of Research Information Services Office of Sponsored Programs Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory Washington National Primate Research Center Browse Forms and Templates Policies, Procedures and Guidance Announcements Glossary FAQs Popular Resources Funding Opportunities Grants Information Memorandum (GIMs) Institutional Facts and Rates Research Stats & Rankings New to UW Research UWFT for the Research Community Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Collaboration Connect to Expertise Find Research Expertise Research Centers and Institutes Resources for Collaboration Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources Establish a Research Center or Institute Shared Research Facilities and Resources Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Compliance Compliance Overview Compliance Training Training Overview Research Training Overview Collaborative for Research Education Required Research Training Research Administration Learning HSD Training and Education MyResearch Training Transcript UW Research Menu MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Setup Manage Closeout Resources Collaboration Compliance Training Home UW Research Fostering Research Collaboration Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Gather Required Supporting Documentation Gather Required Supporting Documentation Close Menu Home Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Set up Your Development Plan Complete Data Tables Prepare Budget Gather Required Supporting Documentation Compliance Managing Appointments Managing the Award Budget Reporting Closeout Biosketches are required in both competing applications and progress reports. Find instructions, blank format pages, and sample biosketches on the NIH website. Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) NIH requires all pre- and post-doctoral researchers supported by training grants receive training in the responsible conduct of research, per NOT-OD-16-122. NIH also has specific FAQs that address the RCR plan. You are required to include an RCR plan in your training grant proposal. The School of Medicine has developed the Biomedical Research Integrity Program consisting of lectures and discussion groups that meets the NIH educational requirement for trainees. The US Department of Health & Human Services Office of Research Integrity hosts a wealth of resources that can be used in an RCR program. Review the RCR plan primer with boilerplate and suggestions to help you develop your plan. Recruitment Plan to Enhance Diversity Review the Guidelines and UW resources to use in writing a Diversity Enhancement Recruitment Plan NIH Recruitment and Retention Plan to Enhance FAQs National Institute of General Medical Sciences Strategies and Resources to Enhance Diversity Just-in-Time (JIT) Just-In-Time (JIT) materials typically include current protocol numbers and “Key Personnel Other Support.” NIH will communicate either directly with the PI or with OSP to request this information. The PI must prepare and then submit the JIT materials to OSP for review, concurrence and submission to NIH. A summary statement or letter from the Scientific Review Officer may include a detailed response requesting supplemental information to address concerns or issues or it may simply be a request for updated materials. At the direction of the request and consistent with NIH’s policy on Post-submission of application materials, an applicant may submit: Profiles of students who have been or will be supported by the training grant. Applicant pool, admissions, enrollment past trainee achievements (if renewal). According to the NIH grants policy statement documentation of “Other Support” is not specifically requested for Program Directors, training faculty, and other individuals involved in the oversight of training grants since applicable information is collected in other sections of a training grant application. To maximize your efficiency in responding to a JIT notification, call your Program Officer to get the score of your proposal. If the score is in the fundable range, then you should call your Grants Management Specialist (GMS) to get verification of what materials exactly should be turned in for the JIT. Only the GMS is authorized to accept JIT documentation, so make sure to talk to him/her directly. Typically the request is for IACUC and IRB protocols. All responses to NIH for additional information must route through OSP for review, concurrence and submission to NIH. Advance Budgets (ADV) are often used on training grants and must follow the same requirements as all non-training grant advance budgets. According to NIH policy, pre-award costs are not allowable charges for stipends or tuition/fees on institutional training grants since these costs may not be charged to the grant until a trainee has actually been appointed and the appropriate paperwork submitted to the NIH awarding component. GIM 9 – Advance Budgets (ADVs) Learn about the Advance Budget Request Process Trainee Recruitment and Selection Each PI and managing department will probably handle the process of trainee recruitment and selection differently. The opportunity can be announced by web-based announcements and/or personal recommendations. Generally, candidate recruitment occurs through a selection process by respective departments or programs using criteria such as GRE scores, grade transcripts, recommendation letters, publications, and personal interviews. Because the trainee positions are competitive, an appointed committee is a common way to review applications. This committee can be comprised of mentors not involved with the trainee or the potential mentor. For current employees applying for a trainee position, inform them that their status will change to a full-time trainee and they will not receive the same benefits as an employee (no retirement or FICA, etc.). All trainees should be informed that their training stipend may be taxable and that the university does not withhold taxes on stipends. Letters of Support Pursuant to Notice NOT-OD-19-029, all institutional training grant applications submitted after January 24, 2019 are required to include a signed letter on institutional letterhead that describes institutional commitment to prevent, investigate and respond to discriminatory harassment and other discriminatory practices. At the UW this institutional letter of support must be signed by the Dean of the Graduate School and the Vice Provost for Research. Download instructions and boilerplate for guidance in routing the support letter for signature. Remember to check the FOA for specific instructions. Forms, Tools, and Resources Diversity Enhancement Plan Guidelines and UW Resources Responsible Conduct of Research Plan Primer Home Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Set up Your Development Plan Complete Data Tables Prepare Budget Gather Required Supporting Documentation Compliance Managing Appointments Managing the Award Budget Reporting Closeout NIH Resources NIH Grants Policy Statement Standard due dates T Kiosk NRSA Stipend Levels and Tuition Guidelines NIH FAQs NIH Application Guide xTRAIN Resources Notice of Reissuance of NRSA Funding Opportunity Announcement PA-20-142 University of Washington Office of Research Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools OR Support Offices Human Subjects Division (HSD) Office of Animal Welfare (OAW) Office of Research (OR) Office of Research Information Services (ORIS) Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) OR Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory (APL-UW) WA National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC) Research Partner Offices CoMotion Corporate and Foundation Relations (CFR) Enivronmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) Institute of Translational Health Sciences (ITHS) Management Accounting and Analysis (MAA) Post Award Fiscal Compliance (PAFC) Collaboration Research Expertise Centers and Institutes Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources About Research Fact Sheet Research Annual Report Stats and Rankings Honors and Awards Office of Research Contact Us Manage Subscriptions Gerberding Hall G80 Box 351202 Seattle, WA 98195 Accessibility Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA