Skip to main content GSD Logo Harvard University Graduate School of Design Reopening Menu Search Academics Department of Architecture Department of Landscape Architecture Department of Urban Planning and Design Design Studies Design Engineering Doctoral Programs Undergraduate Architecture Studies Loeb Fellowship Executive Education Early Design Education Research Courses More ▼ Apply GSD Now Give People Faculty Staff Students Alumni About Administrative Leadership Council Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Alumni and Friends Website Resources Most Popular: Admissions COVID-19 Financial Aid Frances Loeb Library Student Affairs Offices & Services All Resources → For: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Explore News Events Exhibitions Publications Podcasts Projects Topics Site Index Jump to: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A AIA Henry Adams Certificate AIA Henry Adams Medal AICP Outstanding Student Award Academic Affairs Academic Appointments and Policies Academic Calendars & Schedules Academic Conduct Policy Academic Integrity Academic Services & Advising Accellion Secure File Transfer Accessibility Services Accessibility Services at Public Programs Access to Career Services During Leave of Absence Accreditation Administrative Leadership Council Admissions Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions FAQ AfricaGSD After MDes Workshops After MDes Workshops Aga Khan Program at the GSD Alpha Rho Chi Medal Alumni Connections Alumni Council Career Panels American Society of Landscape Architects Awards Application Checklist Apply Apply for Financial Aid Apply for a Job with Computer Resources Applying for Restricted Scholarships Araldo A. Cossutta Annual Prize for Design Excellence Architecture Architecture Core Prep Areas of Concentration Art, Design, and the Public Domain Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2018 Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2019 Attendance Augmented & Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Award Details Award for Excellence in Project-Based Urban Planning Award for Excellence in Urban Design Award for Outstanding Leadership in Urban Planning and Urban Design B Benefits & Perks Biking Borrowing Print Materials Building Services Business Cards for Students C COVID-19 Information for Staff COVID-19 Testing and Tracing CREATE for Alumni CREATE for Employers CREATE for Students Canvas Capital Improvements and Projects Career Paths by Program Career Resources for Alumni Career Services: Alumni Career Services: Employers Career Services: FAQs Career Services: Faculty Career Services: Students Career Services Offerings Career Services Video Library Careers Casual Conversations With GSD Alumni Change of Address Charles Abrams Scholarship Charles Eliot Traveling Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Chauhaus Classroom Equipment Classroom Technology Clifford Wong Prize in Housing Design Commencement 2022 Commencement Information Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Communications Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Computer Accounts and Passwords Computer Labs Computer Recommendations Computer Requirements Computer Resources Group Concurrent and Joint Degrees Connecting to the File Server Connect with the GSD Contact Contact Admissions Contact Financial Aid Contact the GSD Cost Recovery Policy Course Catalog Course Descriptions Course Info Sessions and Videos Critical Conservation Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2018 Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2019 Cross-Registration Policies & Procedures Current MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements Current MUP Degree Requirements Curriculum Custodial Services D DDes & PhD Financial Aid DDes/PhD Open House Schedule DDes Guidelines for the Dissertation DDes Guidelines for the General Exam DDes Guidelines for the Prospectus DIB Annual Report DIB Programs Daniel L. Schodek Award for Technology and Sustainability Daniel Urban Kiley Teaching Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Dean’s Office Degree Checks Degree Programs Degree Requirements Policies Degree Verifications Design Computing at the GSD Design Labs Design Now: A Quarterly Podcast from Harvard’s Graduate School of Design Design Studies Thesis Prize Desktop 3D Printing Regulations Development and Alumni Relations Digital Delivery and Electronic Resources Digital Design Prize Digital Governance Policy Dimitris Pikionis Award Directions Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging at Career Services Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Offerings Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Resources Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Doctoral Grader (Union Position) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Design Program (DDes) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Document Request Form Druker Traveling Fellowship E ETH Zurich Exchange Program Early Design Education Ecologies Eligibility Email Accounts Emergencies Employer Presentations Employers & Career Paths for Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for Landscape Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for MDE Students Employers & Career Paths for MDes and DDes Students Employers & Career Paths for Urban Planning and Design Students Endowed Fellowships & Financial Aid Funds Energy and Environment Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2017 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2018 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2019 Enrollment Certifications Enrollment Policies Environmental Health and Safety at the GSD Equipment for Classroom Instruction Equitable Accountability Ergonomics Event Audiovisual Support Event Participation for Alumni Event Planning for Faculty and Staff Event Planning for Students Events Events Archive Executive Education Exemptions, Waivers, and Substitutions for MUPs Exhibitions F FAQ FERPA Fabrication Laboratory Faculty Faculty: Collaborate With Career Services Faculty Affairs Office Faculty Directory Faculty Handbooks, Administrative Policies, and Guidelines for Instruction Faculty Research Federal Work-Study Information Fellowships, Funding Sources, and Internships for Students Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Ferdinand Colloredo-Mansfeld Prize for Superior Achievement in Real Estate Studies Final Review Schedule (Spring 2021 – M1, Full-term, M2) Finance Office Financial Aid Financial Aid Application Process for Current Students Financial Aid Application for Prospective Students Financial Aid FAQ Financial Aid Handbook Financial Aid and Satisfactory Progress Financial Matters First Meetings for Option Studios Flexwork at the GSD Frances Loeb Library Fulbright U.S. Student Program G GLACIER GSD-Courances Residency Program GSD Alumni Council Career Panels GSD Community Calendar GSD Consumer Information GSD Diversity Cabinet GSD Payroll Coordinators GSD Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund GSD Radio GSD Student Payroll GSD Web Style Gain Experience General Ledger Gifts & Grants Grading Grant Aid H Harvard-MIT Course Logistics Harvard GSD Job & Internship Fair 2022 Harvard Graduate School of Design Employer Recruiting Policies Harvard Graduate School of Design Fact Book Harvard ID Card Harvard International Office Harvard Shuttle and Van Service Harvard Travel Registry Health Services Heating/Cooling Schedule Help Desk Hiring Students: Information for Faculty History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2018 History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2019 History and Philosophy of Design and Media Home How To Plot How to Post an Event to GSD Now How to Write a Resume That Stands Out Human Resources Human Resources Forms & Policies Hybrid Classroom I IT Policies Income Processing Policy and Procedures Information for Current DDes Students Information for Current PhD Students Installing AEScript AfterEffects Plugin Installing Adobe’s Creative Cloud Software Installing ArcGis Installing AutoDesk Installing Cargo Installing Cinema 4D Installing ClimateStudio Installing DesignBuilder Installing Diva for Rhino Installing Flovent Installing GRANTA EduPack Installing Houdini Installing KeyShot Installing MasterCam Installing MathCAD Installing Miro Installing Modelo Installing Multiframe and MicroStation Installing Printers For Windows Installing Printers for Mac Installing Reality Capture Installing Render Services Installing Rhino Installing RhinoTerrain Installing RobotStudio Installing SketchUp Installing SolidWorks Installing VRay for 3DS Max Installing VRay for Rhino Installing Windows on a Mac Using Parallels International Financial Aid International Student Resources Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Alien Staff Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Bunker Hill Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Dis-Armor Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – El Centro Cultural Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Hiroshima Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Homeless Vehicle Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Loro Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Personal Instrument Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Poliscar Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Abraham Lincoln Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Admiral Farragut Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Central Library Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The City Hall Tower Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Kunstmuseum Basel Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The New Mechelenians Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Real Estate Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Vehicle Irving Innovation Fellowship J J-Term Jacob Weidenman Prize James Templeton Kelley Prize Job Search Resources: Planning, Urban Design, Real Estate Julia Amory Appleton Traveling Fellowship in Architecture K KPF Traveling Fellowship Kevin V. Kieran Prize Key Requests L Landscape Architecture Landscape Architecture Faculty Office Hours Landscape Architecture Thesis Prize Leave of Absence Leaves/Withdrawals and Tuition Charges Library Access & Borrowing Library Liaisons Library Resources & Services Library Resources for Alumni and Visitors Library Staff Life at the GSD Limited-Enrollment Lottery LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard Live Course Presentations Living Guidebook to Virtual Teaching and Learning Living in Cambridge Loan Deferments Loeb Fellowship M MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements MAUD/MLAUD Student Work MArch Course Waiver and Substitution Policy and Procedures MArch Distributional Electives MArch Financial Aid MArch I AP Required Courses MArch II Required Courses MArch I Required Courses MArch Open House Schedule MArch Split Option MArch Thesis Program MDE Open House Schedule MDes Financial Aid MDes Open House Schedule MDes Research and Development Award MDes Technology MLA Degree Requirements MLA Financial Aid MLA Open House Schedule MLA Thesis Guidelines MLA Waivers and Substitutions MUP & MAUD Financial Aid MUP Degree Requirements MUP Outreach Mail Center Mail Policy Master in Architecture I Master in Architecture II Master in Design Engineering Master in Design Studies (MDes) Master in Design Studies (MDes) Pre-Fall 2021 Master in Landscape Architecture I Master in Landscape Architecture I AP Master in Landscape Architecture II Master in Real Estate Master in Urban Planning Master in Urban Planning and Juris Doctor Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Administration Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Health Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Policy Meditation Room Mediums Microsoft Teams Mindfulness, Stress Reduction, & Time Management N NAAB Accreditation Information and Resources Narratives News News Archive Newsletter Nondiscrimination Policy Norman T. Newton Prize O Obtaining a MA State ID Card Office Hour Signup Tools Office Updates Office for Urbanization Office of Career Services Office of Student Affairs Online Registration (my.Harvard) Online Teaching Resources Open Access Policy Open Faculty Positions Open House Open Non-Faculty Academic Positions Opportunities to Recruit GSD Students Option Studio Lottery Spring 2022 Option Studio Presentations Organizational Charts Orientation and Registration for Incoming Students Other Courses of Interest Other J-Term Opportunities Outside Scholarships Outstanding Leadership in Real Estate Award P Page Lists Shortcodes Parking Participate in the Summer Community Service Fellowship Program Paul M. Heffernan International Travel Award Paying for Your Program Payroll Penny White Project Fund Performance Management Performance Management Permanent Records Personnel Manuals Person of Interest (POI) Peter Rice Internship Program at Renzo Piano Building Workshop Peter Rice Prize Peter Walker and Partners Fellowship for Landscape Architecture PhD Student Bios Photo Lab Photography Guidelines Planning Newsletter Plimpton-Poorvu Design Prize Podcasts Policy on Personal Conduct Pollman Fellowship in Real Estate and Urban Development Pre-orientation for New Students Printing Costs Printing Guide Printing Tips and Known Issues Prize for Academic Excellence in Urban Planning and Urban Design Program History Program Pedagogy Projects Protected: Poster Presentations for CSFP Fellows Public Programs Publications Publics Purchases & Expenses R REA Fund Recipients Rafael Moneo Rome Travel Award Real Estate and the Built Environment Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2017 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2018 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2019 Recent DDes Graduates Recent PhD graduates Recommended Backgrounds for Option Studios Recycling, Freecycling and Composting Refunds Registrar Registration Registration Procedures Replacement Diplomas Request Update to Profile Photo Requesting a GSD Subsite Requirements 2017-18 Requirements 2018-19 Research Research Administration Research Administration Resources Research Assistant (Union Position) Research Centers & Programs Research Fellow (Union Position) Research Programs & Initiatives Research Reports & Publications Resource Center Resources for New Graduates Resources for Partners and Families Respectful and Transparent Engagement Return to Campus & Technology Richard Rogers Fellowship Risk and Resilience Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2018 Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2019 Robert A. M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) Room Reservations S Safety, Health, and Wellbeing Sample Job Posting #1 Sample Job Posting #2 Scanners Scholarships for International Students Scholarships for US Citizens and Eligible Non-citizens Seating Charts and Assigned Seating Security Shift Schedule Social Media Social Media Special Collections Special Interest Links for Architecture Students Spiritual Life Spring 2021 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2021 Thesis Review Schedule Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Final Review Schedule Staff Awards & Recognition Staff Directory Staff Newsletter Staff Printing Stationery and Branding Student & Alumni Events Student Academic Affairs Committee Student Directory Student Employment Student Forum Student Forum Open ZOOM Room Student Group Directory Student Group Guide Student Policies Student Records and Transcript Policies Student Travel Information and Costs for Option Studios Students on Leave of Absence Studio Abroad Studio Culture Policy Studio Electricity Summer Peer-Learning Sessions Sustainability at the GSD T Takenaka Summer Internship Talking Practice Tax Resources Teaching Assistant & Research Assistant: Faculty Resources Teaching Assistant (Union Position) Teaching Fellow (Union Position) Technical and Administrative Positions (Non-union Positions) Technology Guide Technology – Required Courses 2018 Technology – Required Courses 2019 Telephones Term Bill The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Title IX Tokyo Summer Workshop Topics Transcripts Transportation Travel Safety and Guidelines Traveling Fellowships Tuition Tuition and Financial Aid U UPD Faculty Office Hours UPD Thesis Guidelines Undergraduate Architecture Studies University Policies & Procedures Updating Staff Profile Photos Urban Design Faculty Profiles Urban Planning and Design Urban Planning and Design Open House Schedule Urban Planning and Design Thesis Prize Urban Planning and Public Policy Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2018 Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2019 Utilizing LinkedIn V VPN Service Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design Veteran and Military Benefits Virtual & On-Campus Events W Web: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Web Editing: Media Web Profile Photos Wellness Resources Wheelwright Prize Who We Are Work Opportunities for Students Work Order Request Form Workshops and Personal Development 2 2020 Oct Iframe test 2021-2022 Academic Year Planning 2022 Application FAQs 2022 J-Term Courses Submit Search Publications All Types A-Z Harvard Design Magazine Harvard Design Studies New Geographies Other Titles Pairs Studio Reports The Incidents All Types A-Z Harvard Design Magazine Harvard Design Studies New Geographies Other Titles Pairs Studio Reports The Incidents Apply Filters Harvard Design Press A-Z A–Z: Harvard University Graduate School of Design 2020 In A–Z: Harvard University Graduate School of Design, graduates from the Class of 2020 share… May 2022 A-Z A–Z: Harvard University Graduate School of Design 2021 In A–Z: Harvard University Graduate School of Design, graduates from the Class of 2021 share… May 2022 Harvard Design Magazine Today’s Global Interested in pre-ordering a copy of this issue? Register your interest and be the… By Sarah M. Whiting, Rahul Mehrotra, Remment Koolhaas, Malkit Shoshan, Bryan Lee, Mark Lee, Christopher C.M. Lee, Ron Witte, Farshid Moussavi, Jerold S. Kayden, Jennifer Newsom and Julie Cirelli May 2022 Harvard Design Magazine Publics Harvard Design Magazine 49: Publics questions how public spaces—the physical, the cultural, and the theoretical—operate… By Anita Berrizbeitia, Diane Davis, Toni L. Griffin, Daniel D’Oca, Sara Zewde, Krzysztof Wodiczko, Malkit Shoshan, George Thomas, Susan Snyder, Alex Krieger and Silvia Benedito January 2022 Pairs Pairs 02 The second issue of Pairs is an opportunity to… December 2021 Other Titles Inscriptions: Architecture Before Speech Inscriptions: Architecture Before Speech Edited by K. Michael Hays and Andrew Holder Inscriptions: Architecture… By K. Michael Hays, Andrew Holder, Catherine Ingraham, Edward Eigen, Phillip Denny and Antoine Picon December 2021 New Geographies New Geographies 12: Commons Edited by Mojdeh Mahdavi and Liang Wang New Geographies 12: Commons seeks to open… October 2021 Harvard Design Magazine America “A terrible mechanism [is] on the march, its gears multiplying.” So begins the first essay… By Mark Lee, Julie Cirelli, Jerold S. Kayden, Jennifer Bonner, K. Michael Hays, Michael Meredith, Edward Eigen, Mack Scogin, Max Kuo, Sharon Johnston, Maurice Cox, Rahul Mehrotra, Kersten Geers, David Van Severen, Sean Canty and Michael Van Valkenburgh February 2021 Pairs Pairs 01 Pairs is a student-led journal at the Harvard GSD dedicated to… February 2021 Studio Reports Fallowscapes: Territorial Reconfiguration Strategies for Arles On a promontory on the left bank of the lower Rhone River, just before it… By Anita Berrizbeitia, Marc Armengaud and Matthias Armengaud January 2021 The Incidents Inhabiting the Negative Space Inhabiting the Negative Space Jenny Odell with foreword by Sarah… By Sarah M. Whiting January 2021 The Incidents Design in a Frame of Emotion Design in a Frame of Emotion Hannah Beachler with Jacqueline Stewart and… By Toni L. Griffin June 2020 New Geographies New Geographies 11: Extraterrestrial Edited by Jeffrey S. Nesbit and  Guy  Trangoš New Geographies 11: Extraterrestrial explores the… February 2020 Other Titles Platform 12: How About Now? Edited by Carrie Bly (MDes History and Philosophy of Design and Media ’19), Isabella Caterina… November 2019 Harvard Design Magazine Inside Scoop The 47th issue of Harvard Design Magazine is a renewed call to… June 2019 New Geographies New Geographies 10: Fallow Edited by Michael Chieffalo and Julia Smachylo New Geographies 10 borrows the term fallow as a… May 2019 Studio Reports The House: The Waken Desire The House: The Waken Desire critically examines the latent assumptions or incentives driving the contemporary… By Iwan Baan and Tatiana Bilbao May 2019 Other Titles SHIBUYA! The Graduate Students of Harvard Think about Shibuya in Ten Years Kayoko Ota and the Harvard University Graduate School of Design In 2016, the GSD… By Kayoko Ota and Toyo Ito April 2019 Studio Reports Regenerative Empathy: Complex Assemblages in a Shared Environment Regenerative Empathy: Complex Assemblages in a Shared Environment explores the relationship between humans and… By Teresa Gali Izard April 2019 Other Titles Computation as Design: Ron Resch and the New Media of Geometry By Andrew Witt and Eliza Pertigkiozoglou The second in the Studies in the… By Andrew Witt April 2019 Studio Reports Transforming Omishima Omishima, an island in the Seto Inland Sea of Japan, has forested mountains… By Toyo Ito February 2019 Studio Reports $2000 Home: Cocreating in the Bengal Delta The Bengal Delta is defined by the fluidity and chemistry of land and… By Marina Tabassum February 2019 Harvard Design Magazine No Sweat This issue of Harvard Design Magazine is about the design of work and the work of design. “No Sweat” challenges designers… December 2018 Other Titles The Natural Forces Laboratory: Ralph Knowles and the Instrumentalized Studio By Andrew Witt and Christopher Reznich The first in the Studies in the… By Andrew Witt December 2018 The Incidents Beyond the Collaboration Beyond the Collaboration Sterling Ruby and Raf Simons How do you tell the story… December 2018 Other Titles Platform 11: Setting the Table Edited by Esther Mira Bang (MArch I ’18), Lane Raffaldini Rubin (MArch I, MLA I… November 2018 Studio Reports Manila: Future Habitations Manila’s extraordinary history—written, erased, and rewritten—has rendered a current condition that is one of extremes… By David Rubin, Rok Oman, Spela Videcnik and Mohsen Mostafavi September 2018 The Incidents “Insert Complicated Title Here” “Insert Complicated Title Here” Virgil Abloh with Oana Stanescu “What’s my DNA?” Virgil Abloh… May 2018 Studio Reports Frontier City: Strategies for Boston Harbor Frontier City documents a landscape architecture studio that envisioned a new urban landscape on… April 2018 Harvard Design Magazine Into the Woods To go “into the woods” is to enter both nightmare and wonderment, chaos… April 2018 New Geographies New Geographies 09: Posthuman Edited by Mariano Gomez Luque and Ghazal Jafari “Posthuman” signals a historical condition in which… January 2018 The Incidents Design Thinking in the Digital Age Design Thinking in the Digital Age Peter G. Rowe In 1987, Peter G. Rowe… By Peter Rowe December 2017 Other Titles Platform 10: Live Feed Platform is the Harvard University Graduate School of Design’s annual compendium of select student work,… By Jon Lott and John May November 2017 Studio Reports Work Environments: Space Work This design studio at Harvard University Graduate School of Design is the last of three… By Florian Idenburg October 2017 Harvard Design Magazine Seventeen It’s 2017. The millennium is in its teenage years—and it shows. The world is acting… October 2017 Studio Reports Kuala Lumpur: Designing the Public Realm Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia’s capital, is an extraordinary city informed by multiple cultures. Largely comprised of… By Rok Oman, David Rubin and Spela Videcnik October 2017 Studio Reports Retooling Metropolis: Working Landscapes, Emergent Urbanism What is the status of the 20th-century metropolis? How do we rethink it (and retool… By Chris Reed September 2017 The Incidents Architectural Ethnography Architectural Ethnography Atelier Bow-Wow with K. Michael Hays When Yoshi Tsukamoto and Momoyo Kaijima… By Momoyo Kaijima, Yoshiharu Tsukamoto and K. Michael Hays September 2017 Other Titles Architecture and Waste: A (Re)planned Obsolescence Often considered utilitarian and unsightly, power plants and other industrial buildings seldom involve architects in… By Hanif Kara, Leire Asensio Villoria and Andreas Georgoulias June 2017 Other Titles Portman’s America & Other Speculations Portman’s America & Other Speculations takes an unconventional and speculative approach towards the understanding… By Mohsen Mostafavi May 2017 Studio Reports Brick: Thick/Thin This studio explores a material paradox that the discipline of architecture has constructed the idea… By Frano Violich May 2017 Studio Reports The Art Space The studio addresses the relationship between art and architecture. The students developed monographic museums dedicated… By Emanuel Christ and Christoph Gantenbein May 2017 Studio Reports Paths, Sounds, Ruins: Imagining Architecture in Candelaria This publication showcases designs and writings inspired by a vast aquatic territory in Argentina,… By Jorge Silvetti and Erika Naginski May 2017 Other Titles Ethics of the Urban Is democracy spatial? How are the physical aspects of our cities bearers of our values?… By Mohsen Mostafavi April 2017 Studio Reports Jakarta: Models of Collective Space for the Extended Metropolis In a manner similar to other megacities in Southeast Asia, Jakarta has witnessed unprecedented metropolitan… By Felipe Correa February 2017 Harvard Design Magazine Shelf Life The more stuff we accumulate, the more space we need to store it all. Vast portions… January 2017 Other Titles The Generic Sublime The Generic Sublime: Organizational Models for Global Architecture recognizes the normative consistency across prevailing developmental forms… By Ciro Najle December 2016 New Geographies New Geographies 08: Island Edited by Daniel Daou and Pablo Pérez-Ramos “Everything is connected to everything else” is the… By Pablo Pérez-Ramos November 2016 Other Titles Platform 9: Still Life Platform is the Harvard University Graduate School of Design’s annual compendium of select student work,… By Jennifer Bonner November 2016 The Incidents Abstract from the Concrete Marxist geographer David Harvey opened his lecture with a fact: between 2011 and 2013 China… September 2016 Other Titles Ecological Urbanism While climate change, sustainable architecture and green technologies have become increasingly topical issues, concerns regarding… By Mohsen Mostafavi and Gareth Doherty September 2016 Studio Reports Work Environments: Glass Works This design studio at Harvard University Graduate School of Design is the second of three… By Florian Idenburg August 2016 Studio Reports The Storm, the Strife and Everyday Life: Sea Change in the Suburbs This studio took stock of how Long Island is changing, and worked with community-based organizations… By Daniel D’Oca July 2016 Studio Reports The Architectural Double in the Museum City Designed by Josef Paul Kleihues and completed in 1996, the Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago… By Sharon Johnston and Mark Lee July 2016 Studio Reports Material Performance: Fibrous Tectonics & Architectural Morphology In biology, most load-bearing structures are fibrous systems. These natural composites share their fundamental characteristics… By Achim Menges July 2016 Studio Reports Poor but Sexy: Berlin, the New Communal What new forms for communal dwelling challenge the status quo in a growing city that… July 2016 Harvard Design Studies Common Frameworks: Rethinking the Developmental City in China The dazzling scale and mesmerizing speed of China’s development in the early 21st century have… By Christopher C.M. Lee July 2016 Harvard Design Magazine Run for Cover! Like all animals, humans are programmed for survival. Fight or flight? Duck! Run for cover!… May 2016 Studio Reports The Barracks of Pion: Developing the Edge of the Park of Versailles Versailles is often considered the site of invention of the classical city. Strikingly, the shapes… By Michel Desvigne and Inessa Hansch March 2016 Other Titles Kiyonori Kikutake: Between Land and Sea Edited by Ken Tadashi Oshima For more than half a century, visionary architect Kiyonori Kikutake… March 2016 Harvard Design Studies Airport Landscape: Urban Ecologies in the Aerial Age Airports have never been more central to the life of cities, yet they remain peripheral… By Charles Waldheim and Sonja Dümpelmann February 2016 Other Titles Platform 8 Edited by Zaneta Hong Platform 8 catalogs a curated selection of work generated in the… By Zaneta Hong November 2015 Harvard Design Magazine Family Planning As family configurations evolve and atomize, and “exceptions” become the norm—divorced, blended, solo, cooperative, childless,… November 2015 Harvard Design Studies Spatializing Politics: Essays on Power and Place Spatializing Politics is an anthology of emerging scholarship that treats built and imagined spaces as… November 2015 Studio Reports Work Environments: Campus and Event This design studio at Harvard University Graduate School of Design is the first of three sponsored… By Florian Idenburg November 2015 New Geographies New Geographies 07: Geographies of Information Edited by Ali Fard and Taraneh Meshkani Digital information and data flows permeate every aspect of… October 2015 Studio Reports Global Leadership in Real Estate and Design Within the global constellation of increasingly connected urban centers, shifts in cultural preferences, design thinking,… By Bing Wang September 2015 Studio Reports Common Frameworks: Rethinking the Developmental City in China, Part 3 Taiqian: The Countryside as a City is premised upon two fundamental ambitions: the recuperation of… By Christopher C.M. Lee September 2015 The Incidents Freedom of Use Anne Lacaton and Jean-Philippe Vassal are known for an architecture that privileges inhabitants’ freedom and… August 2015 Harvard Design Magazine Well, Well, Well Health, and the information around it, is messy. As are our bodies and the systems… June 2015 Studio Reports Habitation in Extreme Environments Habitation in Extreme Environments was a studio of the Department of Architecture at the Harvard… May 2015 The Incidents The Architecture of Taste On November 27, 2012, world-renowned pastry chef Pierre Hermé arrived at Harvard University from Paris. April 2015 Studio Reports Design and Politics: Managing Risks and Vulnerabilities Design and Politics was a studio of the Department of Urban Planning and Design at… April 2015 Other Titles The Function of Style What is the function of style today? If the 1970s were defined by Postmodernism and… By Farshid Moussavi April 2015 Other Titles The Writings of Josep Lluís Sert Josep Lluís Sert (1902–1983) was the last president of CIAM (International Congresses of Modern Architecture)… March 2015 Studio Reports Another Nature When considering the “nature” of architecture today, isn’t it problematic to simply define it as… March 2015 Studio Reports Territorialism This book is the result of the studio, Territorialism, held in fall 2012 and fall… November 2014 New Geographies New Geographies 06: Grounding Metabolism Edited by Daniel Ibañez and Nikos Katsikis New Geographies 06: Grounding Metabolism aims to trace… November 2014 Other Titles Platform 7 This volume documents a selection of activities and events at the Harvard Graduate School of… By Leire Asensio Villoria November 2014 Studio Reports High-Rise, High-Density This book is the result of the High-Rise, High-Density studio taught by Jonathan Sergison and… November 2014 Studio Reports Common Frameworks: Rethinking the Developmental City in China, Part 2 Macau: Cross-Border City documents the second year of a three-year research and… September 2014 Studio Reports Networked Urbanism: Design Thinking Initiatives for a Better Urban Life Networked Urbanism was a series of studios in the Urban Planning and Design Department at… September 2014 Harvard Design Magazine Wet Matter The ocean remains a glaring blind spot in the Western imagination. Catastrophic events remind us… September 2014 Harvard Design Magazine Do You Read Me? “Do You Read Me?” marks a new direction for Harvard Design Magazine—one that invites “reading”… June 2014 Other Titles Projective Ecologies Projective Ecologies takes stock of contemporary ecological research and speculates on potential paths forward for design. By Chris Reed and Nina-Marie Lister May 2014 Other Titles Platform 6 The Harvard Graduate School of Design prides itself on the wide scope of its global… By Rosetta S. Elkin November 2013 Studio Reports Common Frameworks: Rethinking the Developmental City in China, Part 1 Common Frameworks: Rethinking the Developmental City in China documents the first year of a three-year research and… By Christopher C.M. Lee September 2013 Other Titles Landscapes of Development: The Impact of Modernization Discourses on the Physical Environment of the Eastern Mediterranean This book examines the impact of development policies and politics on the physical environment of… August 2013 Other Titles The Superlative City: Dubai and the Urban Condition in the Early Twenty-First Century In the first decade of the twenty-first century, the Persian Gulf city of Dubai has… August 2013 New Geographies New Geographies 05: The Mediterranean Edited by Antonio Petrov Most literature on the Mediterranean in relation to architecture and urbanism… May 2013 Other Titles Instigations: Engaging Architecture Landscape and the City Edited by Moshen Mostafavi and Peter Christensen The creative imagination is not solely based on… By Mohsen Mostafavi December 2012 Other Titles Interdisciplinary Design: New Lessons from Architecture and Engineering Architects and engineers both claim to be designers, though how they define design and the… By Hanif Kara and Andreas Georgoulias November 2012 Other Titles Convergent Flux: Contemporary Architecture and Urbanism in Korea Edited by Jinhee Park and John Hong A remarkable synthesis of history, culture, and innovative design,… By Jinhee Park and John Hong October 2012 Other Titles Platform 5 The Harvard Graduate School of Design has always recognized the indispensable importance and values of… By Mariana Ibanez September 2012 Other Titles In the Life of Cities What is it that gives places their individual qualities and defines the life of a… By Mohsen Mostafavi September 2012 Other Titles Kenzō Tange: Architecture for the World Kenzō Tange (1913–2005) is a peerless figure among twentieth-century Japanese architects, unmatched in his talent,… June 2012 Other Titles Detroit Interrupted: Tracing the Fragile Edges of Development From Introduction: “…what is to become of a regional urban center that currently is too… September 2011 New Geographies New Geographies 04: Scales of the Earth Edited by El Hadi Jazairy The first Apollo images of the Earth produced a perspective… September 2011 Other Titles Platform 4 The fourth volume of a series, Platform 4 is more than a catalog of courses. September 2011 Other Titles Desert Tourism: Tracing the Fragile Edges of Development Deserts are becoming increasingly popular tourist destinations. However, the growth of this tourism niche raises… August 2011 New Geographies New Geographies 03: Urbanisms of Color Edited by Gareth Doherty Color is a ubiquitous yet essential part of the city, creating… By Gareth Doherty February 2011 Other Titles Deconstruction/Construction: The Cheonggyecheon Restoration Project in Seoul The restoration of the Cheonggyecheon River that runs through Seoul, Korea, in a mere twenty-nine… January 2011 Other Titles Platform 3 Platform 3 considers the expanded boundaries of the Harvard University Graduate School of Design. It… September 2010 New Geographies New Geographies 02: Landscapes of Energy Edited by Rania Ghosn Energy infrastructures deploy space at a large scale, yet they remain… February 2010 Other Titles A City and Its Stream: The Cheonggyecheon Restoration Project This book is about a stream called Cheonggyecheon that runs through the center of Seoul,… By Peter Rowe February 2010 Other Titles The Function of Form Farshid Moussavi, edited with Michael Kubo, Garrick Ambrose, Ben Fortunato, Ryan R. Ludwig, Ahmadreza Schricker Following… By Farshid Moussavi October 2009 New Geographies New Geographies 01: After Zero Edited by Neyran Turan and Stephen Ramos Design disciplines are challenged by the condition of… September 2009 Other Titles Platform 2 Platform 02 provides a sampling of the most salient research and design explorations undertaken at… September 2009 New Geographies New Geographies 0: Design, Agency, Territory Edited by Neyran Turan New Geographies… March 2009 Other Titles Olympic Sculpture Park for the Seattle Art Museum: Weiss/Manfredi The Ninth Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design The Harvard University Graduate School of… By Joan Busquets September 2008 Other Titles Catalunya Continental: Rail Infrastructure as the Backbone for Development The central theme of the Studio was to gauge the impact of new 21st-century infrastructures… By Joan Busquets and Felipe Correa December 2007 Other Titles Territories: Contemporary European Landscape Design Edited by Joseph Disponzio Contemporary European Landscape Design is based on an exhibition and conference of… August 2007 Other Titles Barcelona: The Urban Evolution of a Compact City Barcelona can be regarded as a prototype of a European Mediterranean city with a long… By Joan Busquets February 2006 Other Titles Aleppo — Rehabilitation of the Old City: The Eighth Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design From the Introduction: “The Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design has been awarded every… By Joan Busquets February 2006 Other Titles Residential Waterfront Borneo Sporenburg, Amsterdam The Seventh Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design: Adriaan Geuze, West 8 Urban Design &… February 2006 Other Titles The Function of Ornament Farshid Moussavi, edited with Michael Kubo Architecture needs mechanisms that allow it to become connected to… By Farshid Moussavi January 2006 Other Titles Introductions: Jorge Silvetti A collection of lecture introductions given by Jorge Silvetti during his tenure as Chair of… By Jorge Silvetti February 2005 Other Titles Bringing the Harvard Yards to the River The work collected in this book captures spaces and buildings, domains and landscapes, university and… By Joan Busquets and Felipe Correa January 2004 Other Titles The Favela-Bairro Project — Jorge Mario Jauregui Architects: The Sixth Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design The favelas of Rio de Janeiro are shantytowns that lack even the most basic infrastructure… February 2003 Other Titles CASE: Downsview Park Toronto In 1999, an international competition was held to select an urban park design for a… January 2002 Other Titles Jerzy Soltan–A Monograph Edited by: Jola Gola Publisher: Warszawa & Harvard University Graduate School of Design, 1995… February 1995 All Publications Prev Next Close Slideshow Back to top Harvard University Graduate School of Design © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Privacy Accessibility Digital Accessibility Maps Contact COVID-19 GSD API Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, exhibitions, and more. Email* Δ Version 1.11.26