Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Student Financial Aid Federal School Code: 003425 Types of Aid Students receiving Clemson University scholarship assistance cannot be awarded more than the total cost of attendance as defined annually. This limitation applies to all financial aid regardless of its source and is based on tuition and fees, room and board, books and supplies, transportation and personal expenses. There are four types of aid available to Clemson students. Grants Several grant programs are available to qualifying students. Unlike loans, grants don’t have to be repaid. Scholarships Many different criteria go into choosing students for Clemson University scholarships. Students are considered for University scholarships when they apply for admission. State programs and private donor-selected scholarships are also available and require students to apply separately. Loans Several federal, alternative and specialty loan programs are available to Clemson students and their parents. Loans are one way to help fill the gap between the cost of attendance and the amount of help a student gets from scholarships and grants. Student Employment Many students work on- or off-campus during the school year. Several campus programs are available for students who want to work during their time in school. Other Programs Various programs exist for various segments of the population. Home Types of Students Types of Aid Grants Scholarships Loans Student Employment Other Programs Aid Eligibility Deadlines and Timeline Costs Forms and Resources Summer Session Terms and Conditions FAQ Contact Us Consumer Information Related Links iROAR Financial Literacy Residency Classification Accepted Students International Services Graduate School Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram