Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni CU Honors College Academics Forward Arrow Academics Curriculum Tracks Forward Arrow Curriculum Tracks General Honors Departmental Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Back Arrow Back Honors Courses and Seminars Honors Graduation Back Arrow Back Admissions Forward Arrow Admissions First-Year Clemson Honors Students Enrolled Clemson Students Transfer Students Clemson Honors Student Ambassadors Schedule a Visit Newly Admitted Students Back Arrow Back Opportunities Forward Arrow Opportunities Intellectual Growth Forward Arrow Intellectual Growth Dixon Global Policy Scholars Dixon Fellows Program EUREKA! Summer Program for Research Interns Back Arrow Back Professional Development Forward Arrow Professional Development Professional Development Opportunities Employer Networking Back Arrow Back Travel Forward Arrow Travel Conference Travel Grants Christopher J. Duckenfield Scholars Program Educational Enrichment Travel Grants London Internship Program Summer 2022 Mini Grants Back Arrow Back Honors Center Honors Residential College Grants Breakthrough Scholars Program Back Arrow Back Student Support Forward Arrow Student Support Honors Advising Peer Mentors SASH Wellness Ambassadors Connections Welcome Week Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About Honors Faculty and Staff Departmental Honors Contacts Honors College Advisory Board Honors Student Advisory Board Inclusive Excellence COVID-19 Information Back Arrow Back Resources Forward Arrow Resources Faculty Forward Arrow Faculty Create an Honors Course Honors Faculty Award Back Arrow Back Alumni School Counselors Parents Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close CU Honors College Academics show submenu for Academics Curriculum Tracks show submenu for Curriculum Tracks General Honors Departmental Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Honors Courses and Seminars Honors Graduation Admissions show submenu for Admissions First-Year Clemson Honors Students Enrolled Clemson Students Transfer Students Clemson Honors Student Ambassadors Schedule a Visit Newly Admitted Students Opportunities show submenu for Opportunities Intellectual Growth show submenu for Intellectual Growth Dixon Global Policy Scholars Dixon Fellows Program EUREKA! Summer Program for Research Interns Professional Development show submenu for Professional Development Professional Development Opportunities Employer Networking Travel show submenu for Travel Conference Travel Grants Christopher J. Duckenfield Scholars Program Educational Enrichment Travel Grants London Internship Program Summer 2022 Mini Grants Honors Center Honors Residential College Grants Breakthrough Scholars Program Student Support show submenu for Student Support Honors Advising Peer Mentors SASH Wellness Ambassadors Connections Welcome Week About show submenu for About Honors Faculty and Staff Departmental Honors Contacts Honors College Advisory Board Honors Student Advisory Board Inclusive Excellence COVID-19 Information Resources show submenu for Resources Faculty show submenu for Faculty Create an Honors Course Honors Faculty Award Alumni School Counselors Parents Clemson Home CU Honors College Academics Curriculum Tracks Current: Interdisciplinary Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Interdisciplinary Honors is an alternative to the Departmental Honors distinction and is specifically for students who wish to combine at least two academic disciplines into one cohesive project or learning experience. While requirements will vary by discipline, students interested in pursuing Interdisciplinary Honors will work with the Honors College and a faculty member in one of the academic departments, who will serve as their Interdisciplinary Honors faculty advisor. Students have the option to pursue Interdisciplinary Honors through two options, one more focused on course work and the other culminating in a thesis or major project. Students interested in pursuing Interdisciplinary Honors should first meet with Katie Maxwell, Director of Advising, during their second semester of their sophomore year to discuss their interest areas and project idea. Options and Requirements Students pursuing Interdisciplinary Honors can choose between two options, each totaling 14 credit hours: a Three-Course Option, or a Thesis/Project Option. The main differences between the two options are the balance of coursework and of research hours in the final product. Three-Course Option: Three upper-level courses of at least three credit hours each across at least two disciplines, each in conjunction with HON 4010 (1) for a total of 12 credit hours, plus two hours of HON 4990. Thesis/Project Option: Two upper-level courses of at least three credit hours each across two disciplines, each in conjunction with HON 4010 (1), plus at least 6 hours of HON 4990. The faculty advisor will be listed as the instructor for the one credit hour HON 4010 companion course for the upper level courses the student will be completing. In addition, the same faculty member will be the instructor for HON 4990. HON 4010 offers the student the opportunity to think, read, and write about how the course integrates with their proposed interdisciplinary topic. Students completing the thesis or major project option will take at least 6 hours of HON 4990 and prepare a substantial product (e.g., a thesis, exhibition, performance). Students taking the three course option will take two hours of HON 4990 as a capstone course to explore connections between their courses, culminating in a reflective essay pulling together their interdisciplinary experience. Any substitutions or modifications to the requirements must be approved by the Interdisciplinary Honors Steering Committee. Proposed Timeline Second Semester Sophomore Year Students interested in pursuing Interdisciplinary Honors should first meet with Katie Maxwell, Director of Advising, to discuss their ideas and how to combine two disciplines of interest into a project. Make an appointment with Dr. Maxwell. Students should find a faculty member with whom they want to work for the entirety of their project. Once they have identified this person, they should set up a meeting to discuss their ideas for their project/research and course options and begin writing their Interdisciplinary Course Proposal Form. This form is due four semesters before the student graduates (which, for most students, is the second semester of their sophomore year). The proposal form will outline the courses the student plans to take as well as a summary of the student’s interest area and overall plan. After meeting with their faculty member, the student should be able to decide which option they will be pursuing, the Three-Course Option or the Project/Research Option. The student’s Course Proposal Form should reflect this decision and articulate what courses they will be registering for in the upcoming semesters. Submit Interdisciplinary Course Proposal Form to Katie Maxwell to be reviewed by the Interdisciplinary Honors Steering Committee. Upon approval of the Interdisciplinary Course Proposal Form, register for the first course in addition to the HON 4010 companion course, facilitated by your faculty advisor, for Fall semester. All courses must be approved by the Interdisciplinary Honors Steering Committee prior to enrolling in the courses. Junior Year Revise Interdisciplinary Course Proposal Form & submit by the last day of classes of Spring semester. Continue following course plan. First semester Senior Year For students pursuing the Thesis/Project Option: Coordinate/create your final product. Enroll in HON 4990. For students pursuing the Three-Course Option: Take third course and HON 4010 companion course. Second semester Senior Year For students pursuing the Thesis/Project Option: Finish coordinating/creating final product. Enroll in HON 4990. For students pursuing the Three-Course Option: Take two hours of HON 4990 as a capstone course and submit your reflective essay. Required Forms Interdisciplinary Course Proposal Form Due with at least four semesters (fall and spring) remaining in a student's academic curriculum. Eligible students must have 4 semesters (excluding summer) left within their undergraduate curriculum. Student, Faculty advisor and Honors Staff must sign and approve documentation prior to the start of coursework. The proposal will include the proposed interdisciplinary course curriculum and summary of focus. If pursuing the Thesis/Project Option, this form should include the following: Summary of Focus A Thesis/Project Plan of Study outlining the courses you plan to take during each semester Information for faculty advisor(s) Ideas for a final product (thesis, gallery show, etc.) If pursuing the Three-Course Option, this form should include the following: Summary of focus Plan of study, outlining the courses you plan to take during each semester Information for faculty advisor(s) Ideas on how to integrate or relate your courses to their overall focus Interdisciplinary Revision Form Due no later than the last day of classes concluding Junior Year and as necessary afterwards. Students will revise their original proposal and include updates to curriculum or project focus. Interdisciplinary Course Completion Form Due no later than the final day of classes of a student's final semester at Clemson. Faculty will submit a completion form awarding the student with Interdisciplinary Honors if the student made an A or B in all courses in the proposal. Students' Examples Geneva Hutchinson ’19 Major/Academic Disciplines: Visual Arts and Communications Project Focus: Using various art forms to make a tangible, physical connection between people and their interpersonal and mental feelings, specifically as it relates to women, the #MeToo movement, and other feminist topics. Final Product: Curated group show Addie Stone ’20 Major/Academic Disciplines: Spanish and Agriculture Project Focus: To explore the intersection of Spanish and agriculture as it pertains to either migrant workers and their families or urban Hispanic youths’ involvement with agriculture. Project Excerpt: "My goal in life is to start a think tank dedicated to connecting urban citizens with agriculture. I think that if more people from non-traditional and varied backgrounds become involved in agriculture, it will lead to quicker innovation and more educated consumers. By focusing on Spanish and agriculture, I can explore how to get a very prominent group of people interested or advanced in the industry." Final Product: Thesis or outreach project Kylie Ippolito ’22 Majors/Academic Disciplines: Chemistry and Food Science Project Focus: Sugar Determination and Flavor Analysis Project Excerpt: "My project would look into the amounts and types of different sweeteners, such as simple sugars and synthetic sweeteners, as well as flavors in foods, such as soft drinks, sport electrolytes, etc. through the learning and operation of advance chromatographic instruments, including GC and HPLC, for the qualitative and quantitative analyses of the aforementioned food components." Erica Wearing ’22 Majors/Academic Disciplines: Agricultural Education Project Focus: STEM Integration in Agricultural Education for Adult Learners Project Excerpt: “The project will be focused on STEM integration and the use of inquiry-based instruction within agricultural education. The project will consist of two parts to assess already existing rubrics and evaluation tools and then creating a more streamlined and content specific tool to evaluate STEM lesson plans that agriscience teachers have designed and use to teach. Part 1 of the research will be assessing lesson plans that meet national AFNR standards and core concepts for how well they integrate STEM and how effectively they utilize inquiry based instructional teaching methods. Part 2 of the research will be creating and testing a rubric (lesson plan evaluation tool) that assesses the lesson plans incorporation of both factors (STEM integration and IBI teaching methods).” Sample Proposal Forms and Project Ideas Look at examples of proposal forms and project ideas from graduated and current students. Japanese and Forestry Example (PDF) Electrical Engineering and Music/Audio Technology Example (PDF) Find Out More If you have questions, or would like to learn more about Interdisciplinary Honors, please contact Katie Maxwell by email or phone at 864-656-5512. You may also schedule a meeting with her via CU Navigate. “ “I live by a mantra that says: What did you do yesterday to make you a better person for today, and what are you going to do today to make you a better person for tomorrow? I know I can leave the world better than I found it and never give up an opportunity to do something better than I used to. ” Erica Wearing Interdisciplinary Honors student Agricultural Education Major (2022) Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson