Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Provost Provost right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet the Provost right arrow down arrow Event Request Form Leadership Committees Next Lives Here Initiatives right arrow down arrow COACHE Textbook Affordability UC Women Lead Program Dual Career Assistance Program Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program Decanal Searches Faculty right arrow down arrow Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure right arrow down arrow eRPT Collective Bargaining Agreement Resources right arrow down arrow Faculty Retention Program Proposal Process right arrow down arrow Distance Learning Programs Adjunct Resources Leaves of Absence Associations right arrow down arrow Latino Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Members Resources Events & Photo Gallery News Emeriti Association right arrow down arrow Membership LGBTQ Faculty and Staff Association Black Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Resources Events and News Committees Photo Gallery The Academy of Fellows - AFTL right arrow down arrow Members, Eligibility & Benefits Journal for Research & Practice in College Teaching Faculty Enrichment Center right arrow down arrow Programming and Resources Colleges and Offices right arrow down arrow Colleges Offices right arrow down arrow Faculty Affairs & Academic Personnel Enrollment Management Graduate School The Office of Institutional Research right arrow down arrow Facts & Dashboards College Financial Reporting Survey Research & Consulting Resources Contact Us UC International IT @ UC Student Affairs Undergraduate Studies right arrow down arrow Affiliated Offices Integrated Core Learning (ICL) General Education Core Contact Us Awards right arrow down arrow All-University Faculty Awards Home » About UC » Office of the Provost » Awards » All-University Faculty Awards Set Navigation title in component All-University Faculty Awards All-University Faculty Awards Each year, the University of Cincinnati's (UC) president and provost join with Faculty Senate to honor faculty for their remarkable contributions in teaching, research and service. The All-University Faculty Awards celebrates faculty for their distinguished work to advance the university's mission as a premier, public, urban research university dedicated to developing educated and engaged citizens. 2022 Award Winners UC President Neville Pinto and Faculty Award Winners (L-R) David Rapien PhD; Anthony Chemero, PhD; Kelly Cohen, PhD; Russel Durst, PhD; Dion Dionysiou, PhD; Ron Jackson, PhD; Ahmed Elgafy, PhD; James Mack, PhD; Karen Manning, Rachel Smith-Steinert, DNP, CRNA; Ann Porter, PhD; Charles Matthews, PhD. Not pictured are Ephraim Gutmark, PhD and Andrew Lewis, PhD. Faculty Awards Outstanding Unit Head Leadership Award right arrow down arrow The Office of the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost is accepting applications for the Outstanding Academic Unit Head/Leader Award. This award recognizes an academic unit head, division head, or school director who has demonstrated exemplary leadership in multiple domains. The award recipient will receive $5000 in professional development funding, $2500 for the unit head, and $2500 for the unit. Award Criteria: Who is eligible: Current academic unit heads and directors who perform, or have the authority to delegate, the majority of duties and responsibilities outlined in Article 31 of the collective bargaining agreement with at least two completed years of service are eligible. Given the nature of the award, former unit heads and directors and interim unit heads and directors are not eligible. Evidence of an outstanding academic unit head may include, but is not limited to: Demonstration of effective leadership qualities (e.g., has a vision for the department, is proactive and positive, fair and equitable, has a caring attitude, can make difficult decisions, can delegate when appropriate, fosters an inclusive approach to accomplishing tasks, and manages conflict effectively). Facilitates high levels of achievement among departmental faculty and staff and promotes professional development. Is innovative concerning new academic programs, infrastructure, facilities, and organization. Fosters an environment that exemplifies diversity and inclusion for faculty, staff, and students. Creates and/or maintains an environment that promotes academic excellence. Emphasizes collaboration within and among departments/units/colleges. Is an active citizen of both the college and university. Participates in professional development opportunities both within and outside the university. Manages fiscal resources effectively and responsibly. Utilizes human capital resources effectively and efficiently. Submission Timeline: Due Monday November 22, 2021 What is needed for submission: A letter of nomination from a faculty member, staff member, student, or administrator that outlines how the candidate meets the award criteria (1700 word maximum) A letter of support from the Dean that addresses the award criteria and speaks to the nominee's outstanding performance as a unit head (1700 word maximum) The nominee’s curriculum vitae. Optional supplemental material: One letter of support (1700 word maximum) that addresses what makes the nominee an outstanding leader. Letters may be from faculty members, graduate and/or undergraduate students, staff, or others who work extensively with the nominee but need not come from all these groups. UC Faculty and Staff: please submit all nominations using the Outstanding Unit Head Leadership Nomination Form. Questions: Melissa Hobbs 513-556-4381 Melissa.Hobbs@uc.edu George Barbour Award for Good Faculty-Student Relations right arrow down arrow The George Barbour Award focuses on mentoring and good faculty-student relations. Nominees must be in at least the seventh year of full-time teaching at the University of Cincinnati. Importantly, nominations may come only from students  and alumni  and must not be solicited by faculty or administrators. Award Criteria: Although there are no absolute criteria as to what constitutes the furtherance of good student-faculty relations, the following list is suggested for consideration: Demonstrates an involvement with students in and out of class. Demonstrates an involvement with student groups and activities, and has a history of doing so. Demonstrates a genuine concern about students' current and long-range development. Demonstrates a sensitivity to individual differences and to multicultural needs of students. Demonstrates a working knowledge of information related to advising, course requirements, registration, etc. Demonstrates a commitment to mentoring, even after the student graduates.Has the respect and trust of students and is genuinely concerned with individuals Submission Timeline: Friday, October 15, 2021: Nomination Letters Due Monday, November 22, 2021: Dossier Submissions Due Nomination Letter: Due Friday October 15th, 2021 Nominations may come only from students and alumni and must not be solicited by faculty or administrators. Nomination letters need to be limited to no more than one page in PDF format. Please email your single PDF nomination letter before the October 15th deadline to the Barbour Award Committee Team with “Nomination Letter - (insert nominee’s name) ” in email the subject line. Dossier Submission: Due Monday, November 22, 2021 Once the nominee's eligibility is confirmed, they will be informed by the Office of the President of the nomination so that they can assemble the electronic dossier required for the nomination to go forward. The nominee(s) may participate in this process. Students shall be part of this process also and departments may also be involved. The candidate should be involved in any way he or she deems necessary, such as selecting the college or departmental committee when used, supplying an updated vita, a list of students with whom the candidate has interacted, and course evaluations in the candidate's possession. A nominee may be a candidate for only one award. If a person is nominated for both the Cohen Award and the Barbour Award, the nominee must choose the award for which he/she/they wishes to be considered. The dossier, which must be submitted electronically in PDF format and consist of the following documentation in the order indicated. The department head and/or college dean cover letter The student/alumnus(a) nominating letter(s)/form(s) In addition to the items listed above, no more than 25 numbered pages containing A one-to-three page reflection, written by the nominee, that describes the specific ways the nominee has created or promoted good student-faculty relations at UC An abbreviated personal vita, stating past and current faculty status not to exceed 3 pages A list (not necessarily complete) of courses taught at UC. A summary of numerical and/or written class evaluations (optional for the Barbour Award). Quotations (not paraphrases) from student letters/comments with examples of at least three and not more than five complete letters. Quotations (not paraphrases) from peer letters/comments with examples of at least three complete and not more than five letters. Any additional evidence felt important, e.g. involvement with students outside of class or with student groups, publications related to teaching, etc. An Appendix All documents from which quotations are taken must be included in their entirety as the electronic appendix. The electronic appendix does not count in the 25-page limit on the dossier. Since the dossier itself is the primary basis for the evaluation of a nominee's qualifications, the appendix serves only as a supplement. The committee strongly suggests that nominees avoid the temptation to inflate the dossier by placing either redundant or extraneous material in the appendix. There is no relationship between the size of the appendix and winning an award. Copies of books and offprints of articles should be not included in the dossier. The evaluation Committee is under no obligation to consider appended materials. Please email your single PDF electronic dossier file before the November 22nd deadline to the Barbour Award Committee Team with "Electronic dossier - (insert nominee's name)" in the subject line. Please Note: The candidate should be very clear about the differing criteria for each award and make certain that the folder adequately states and reflects the award for which it is submitted.The 25 pages referred to in #3 must be numbered.Dates should be included on letters whenever possible.Evaluations from students and peers outside the nominee's area are useful. The criteria and dossier format are firm. All items must be assembled into one complete submission per nominee, including all information listed above. Final Considerations: By tradition, individuals who have previously won these awards have been considered ineligible to win the same award a second time. Having won one of the awards does not preclude winning the other award. Individuals who were nominated in the past but did not win may be nominated again, but are encouraged to update their files.  (Nominations from previous years are not automatically carried over in the next year without new nominations.) Confidentiality should be observed at all stages; names of nominees sent to the Barbour-Cohen Committee should not be publicly divulged. Questions: DJ Lowrie, PhD Chair of CommitteeBarbour-Cohen Awards Selection Committee Phone: (513) 558-5032 Email: dj.lowrie@uc.edu Mrs. A.B. "Dolly" Cohen Award for Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow The Mrs. A.B. "Dolly" Cohen Award focuses on teaching excellence. Nominees must be in at least the seventh year of full-time teaching at the University of Cincinnati. Award Criteria: Although there are no absolute criteria as to what constitutes excellence in teaching, the following list is suggested. Qualities apt to be exhibited by a Cohen awardee: Is committed to teaching and regards it as a primary function of the university Has successfully taught a variety of courses Demonstrates creative approaches to teaching Shows respect for diversity of opinions and experiences of students Demonstrates sensitivity to individual differences and multicultural needs of students Maintains high but attainable standards of performance Stimulates independent work by students that leads them to be creative, self-directed learners Establishes a classroom atmosphere that fosters self-confidence, a positive self-concept, and mutual respect. Additional Considerations: By tradition, individuals who have previously won these awards have been considered ineligible to win the same award a second time. Having won one of the awards does not preclude winning the other award.Individuals who were nominated in the past, but did not win, may be nominated again, but are encouraged to update their files. (Nominations from previous years are not automatically carried over in the next year without new nominations.) Confidentiality should be observed at all stages; names of nominees sent to the Barbour-Cohen Committee should not be publicly divulged. Submission Timeline: Friday, October 15, 2021: Nomination letters due Monday, November 22, 2021: Electronic dossier due Nomination Letter: Due Friday, October 15th, 2021 Nominations may come only from students and alumni and must not be solicited by faculty or administrators. Nomination letters need to be limited to no more than one page in PDF format. Please email your single PDF nomination letter before the October 15th deadline to the Cohen Award Committee Team with “Nomination Letter - (insert nominee’s name) ” in the email subject line. Electronic Dossier due Monday November 22, 2021 Once the nominee’s eligibility is confirmed, they will be informed by the Office of the President of the requirement for an electronic dossier to be compiled and submitted. A process should be initiated to collect and organize supporting data in the form of an electronic dossier. The nominee(s) may participate in this process. Students shall be part of this process also. The candidate should be involved in any way he or she deems necessary, such as selecting the college or departmental committee when used, supplying an updated vita, a list of students with whom the candidate has interacted, and course evaluations in the candidate's possession. A nominee may be a candidate for only one award. If a person is nominated for both the Barbour Award and the Cohen Awards, the nominee must choose which award for which he/she/they wishes to be considered The electronic dossier, which must be submitted electronically in a single PDF format should consist of the following documentation in the order indicated: The department head and/or college dean's cover letter The student/alumnus(a) nominating letter(s)/form(s) In addition to the above, include no more than 25 numbered pages containing: A 1- to 3-page reflection, written by the nominee, that describes and illustrates the nominee's excellence in teaching (this should include the nominee's philosophy of teaching) An abbreviated personal vita, stating past and current faculty status not to exceed 3 pages A list (not necessarily complete) of courses taught at UC. A summary of numerical and/or written class evaluations (required for the Cohen Award Quotations (not paraphrases) from student letters/comments with examples of at least 3 and not more than 5 complete letters Quotations (not paraphrases) from peer letters/comments with examples of at least 3 and not more than 5 complete letters Any additional evidence felt important, e.g. involvement with students outside of class or with student groups, publications related to teaching, teaching artifacts (an original syllabus, innovative assignments, etc. Evaluations from students and peers outside of the nominee’s area are useful Dates should be included on letters whenever possible. An Appendix: All documents from which quotations are taken must be included in their entirety as the electronic appendix. The appendix does not count in the 25-page limit on the electronic dossier. Since the dossier itself is the primary basis for the evaluation of a nominee's qualifications, the appendix serves only as a supplement. The committee strongly suggests that nominees avoid the temptation to inflate the dossier by placing either redundant or extraneous materials in the appendix. There is no relationship between the size of the appendix and winning an award. Copies of books and offprints of articles should be not included in the dossier. The evaluation Committee is under no obligation to consider appended materials Please email your single PDF electronic dossier file before the November 22nd deadline to the Cohen Award Committee Team with “Electronic Dossier - (insert the nominee’s name) ” in email the subject line. Questions: If you have questions concerning the awards or the procedures, please contact: DJ Lowrie, PhD Chair of CommitteeBarbour-Cohen Awards Selection Committee Phone: (513) 558-5032 Email: dj.lowrie@uc.edu Distinguished Research Professors (AHSS) right arrow down arrow The awarding of the title of Distinguished Research Professor to a faculty member in Arts, Humanities or Social Science (AHSS) represents the highest level of recognition for achievements and contributions in AHSS research at the University of Cincinnati. Award Criteria: Nominations come from the academic college by a process recommended by the Dean and approved by the Provost. Colleges may nominate no more than two individuals each year With the approval of the Dean, one nominee from the previous year can be nominated again and the required three external letters of recommendation do not have to be re-requested. The Office of Research will appoint a committee of AHSS research faculty to review the nominations and make a recommendation to the Vice President for Research. Submission Timeline: Due Monday November 22nd, 2021 What is needed for submission: Letter of Nomination from the Dean that includes: Documentation that the nominee has national and international stature as a scholar, visual or performing artist, or practitioner in field of expertise. Documentation that the nominee has at least a seven-year (7) commitment to teaching, service and/or research.· A complete academic CV for the nominee Copies of two (2) scholarly publications or creative works which have appeared in peer-reviewed journals/books/galleries about or by the nominee related to their scholarly, artistic, and/or professional achievements. Letter of recommendation from the appropriate Department or Unit Head. Letters of evaluation by three (3) scholars, visual or performing artists, or practitioners in field of expertise who have international standing in the nominee’s academic area and who have had no affiliation current or past with the University of Cincinnati. The Dean is responsible for requesting the external letters. UC Faculty and staff: Please submit all nominations using the Distinguished Research Professors (AHSS) nomination form. Questions: Heather Geers Executive Assistant to the Vice President for Research Phone: 513-558-0026 Email: Heather.Geers@uc.edu Distinguished Research Professors (STEM) right arrow down arrow The awarding of the title of Distinguished Research Professor to a faculty member in Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics or Medicine (STEMM) represents the highest level of recognition for achievements and contributions in STEMM research at the University of Cincinnati. Award Criteria: Nominations come from the academic college by a process recommended by the Dean and approved by the Provost. Colleges may nominate no more than two individuals each year With the approval of the Dean, one nominee from the previous year can be nominated again and the required three external letters of recommendation do not have to be re-requested. The Office of Research will appoint a committee of STEMM research faculty to review the nominations and make a recommendation to the Vice President for Research. Submission Timeline: Due Monday November 22, 2021 What is needed for submission: Letter of Nomination from the Dean This letter must document that the nominee has national and international stature as a scholar or scientist in a STEMM discipline. Documentation should include prestigious national and international recognition as a scholar or scientist in a STEMM discipline; for example, membership in a national or international academy. The nominee must have at least a seven-year commitment to teaching graduate or undergraduate students at this or A complete academic CV for the nominee Reprints of two (2) scholarly publications which have appeared in peer-reviewed journals Letter of recommendation from the appropriate Department or Unit Head Letters of evaluation by three (3) scholars who have international standing in the nominee’s academic area and who have had no affiliation current or past with the University of Cincinnati. The Dean is responsible for requesting the external letters. UC Faculty and staff: Please submit all nominations using the Distinguished Research Professors (STEM) nomination form. Questions: Heather Geers Executive Assistant to the Vice President for Research Phone: 513-558-0026 Email: Heather.Geers@uc.edu Faculty Entrepreneurship Award right arrow down arrow Entrepreneurial achievement contributes to the vitality, prestige and economic growth of the university and has been shown to have a significant impact on regional economic prosperity. Recognizing the importance of entrepreneurial activity to the University of Cincinnati, as well as our region and state, this award has been created for exceptional faculty achievement in promoting and maximizing the commercial potential and human benefits of university intellectual property and/or research. Prior to this year an emerging and an established entrepreneurship award was given. Those awards have now been merged into a single award, now called the Faculty Entrepreneurship Award. Award Criteria: Evidence of commercial and/or societal impact. Investment capital raised. Major partnerships that support commercialization. Other external evidence that points toward current or eventual entrepreneurial success. This award is for faculty with a record of successful entrepreneurship evidenced by milestones such as demonstrating initial commercial feasibility and/or societal impact, investment capital raised, major partnerships that support commercialization, and other external evidence that points to an entrepreneurial venture that is currently, or that will be, successful. Submission Timeline: Due November 22, 2021 What is needed for submission: Faculty only need to submit a letter of self-interest or letter nominating a colleague describing their contribution to commercialization at UC. Faculty member’s C.V. (No more than 5 pages) This letter will be supplemented with information collected by UC’s Office of Innovation, such as the number of disclosures, patent applications, issued patents and licenses/options, capital raised, and commercial progress. UC Faculty and staff: Please submit all nominations using the Faculty Entrepreneurship nomination form. Questions: Jason Heikenfeld, PhD Chair Phone: 513-556-476 Email: Jason.Heikenfeld@uc.edu Faculty Senate Exemplary Service to the University Award right arrow down arrow The University of Cincinnati will continue its tradition of honoring faculty for “Exemplary Contributions in Service to the University of Cincinnati.” The awards (two) are sponsored by the UC Faculty Senate. The awards will be given to full-time faculty members who have made significant and sustained service contributions to the University during their career at UC. University Service is defined as participation and leadership in activities other than teaching and research that contribute in important ways to the mission of the University of Cincinnati. Award Criteria: Faculty members eligible for the award are full-time faculty who have exhibited sustained, significant, and impactful University service activity over several years and who have provided significant leadership within the University. Their contributions should be further evidenced by substantial time commitments and significant accomplishments related to their service activities. All individuals entitled to vote in the All-University Faculty Elections except previous winners are eligible for this award. University Service activities might include, but are not limited to: Significant participation on departmental, college, and university committees. Leadership in service as evidenced by election or assignment to head committees and in assuming leadership roles. Participation in committees and/or groups related to the University’s governance, growth and improvement, and its image. Work on programs or activities to promote faculty development. Submission Timeline: Due on Monday November 22nd, 2021 What is needed for submission: All materials must be submitted in one complete document in pdf. Nominations are to be made by full-time faculty or administrators other than the nominee. The nomination should include a narrative detailing the faculty member's University Service contributions leading up to the nomination and should address the nominee's participation, leadership, time commitment, and accomplishments. Include a discussion of how the efforts of the nominee have contributed to the mission of the University of Cincinnati. The candidates C.V.· At least three (3) letters of support from individuals familiar with the nominee’s service to UC must also be included in the nomination documentation. UC Faculty and staff: Please submit all nominations using the Faculty Senate Exemplary Service to the University nomination form. Questions: Jodie Mader Manager Special Projects & Programs, Faculty Enrichment Center Phone: 513-556-7313 Email: Maderjn@ucmail.uc.edu George Rieveschl Jr. Award for Distinguished Scientific Research right arrow down arrow The Rieveschl Award for Distinguished Scientific Research was created through the generosity of Dr. George Rieveschl. The award, in the amount of $2,000, recognizes a member of the faculty for professional achievement in science. It is given for a specific research, or the entire canon of one’s accomplishment. The emphasis is on research achievement at this institution. Winners of the award will be selected by the Awards Committee of the Fellows of the Graduate School. The Committee will assess whether the candidate’s research has significantly influenced science in the particular field. Award Criteria: Research merit and its impact on the field. Attainment of national and international recognition for superior scholarship through archival publications, continued creativity over a sustained period of time, professional activities, including editorial activity for reputable national and international journals and academic awards of the candidate. Professional status of the individuals providing supporting letters.· An individual may nominate himself/herself or be nominated by someone else. Submission Timeline: Due Monday November 22, 2021 What is needed for submission: All materials should be submitted in a single pdf file. The complete nomination package should not exceed a total of 20 pages. All nominations (including re-submissions) should be fully documented and include evidence of the value or impact of the nominee’s work. CV’s should not exceed 10 pages, and should not include abstracts. It is the responsibility of the nominator to supply supporting letters. Inside letters of support are limited to three, and letters from outside are limited to three. Letters from outside the University community are especially valuable. Each reference letter should not exceed 2 pages. When a candidate’s name is re-submitted, the nominator can simply update the previous nomination in the new format. UC Faculty and staff: Please submit all nominations using the George Rieveschl Jr. Award for Distinguished Scientific Research nomination form. Questions: Litsa Kranias, PhD Chair, Awards Committee of the Fellows of the Graduate School Phone: 513-558-2377 Email: litsa.kranias@uc.edu George Rieveschl Jr. Award for Creative and/or Scholarly Works right arrow down arrow Each year the Rieveschl Award for Creative and/or Scholarly Works is given to one member of the University of Cincinnati full-time faculty. This award, in the amount of $2,000, was set up through the generosity of Dr. George Rieveschl to recognize distinguished achievements of national and international acclaim in the areas of scholarly and/or creative work. Award Criteria: The award is given for a particular work or for the sum of a faculty member’s accomplishments, with emphasis on work carried out at the University of Cincinnati. Faculty may nominate themselves or colleagues, and nominations from previous years may be resubmitted. Past Rieveschl awardees have included faculty members from the departments of Anthropology, Classics, Economics, English, History, Philosophy and Romance Languages in A&S; the divisions of Ensembles/Conducting, Keyboard, Music Composition, Music Performance, and Stage Design in CCM; DAAP’s School of Art and Department of Fine Arts, School of Architecture and Interior Design; the College of Engineering; and the College of Law. Submission Timeline: Due Monday November 22, 2021 What is needed for submission: All materials should be submitted in a single pdf file. Nominee’s CV· All nominations (including re-submissions) should be fully documented and include evidence of the impact of the nominee's work. The nominating letter should make a case for the excellence of the candidate’s work. It is the responsibility of the nominator to include internal and external letters in support of the nomination. These should be recent and relevant to the award. Letters from outside the United States are welcome. Supporting materials should comprise the broadest possible samples of work, such as articles, books, critical reviews, and documentation of performances, exhibitions and presentations. This information should be submitted in electronic form. UC Faculty and staff: Please submit all nominations using the George Rieveschl Jr. Award for Creative and/or Scholarly Works nomination form. Questions: Jodie Mader Manager Special Projects & Programs, Faculty Enrichment Center Phone: 513-556-7313 Email: Maderjn@ucmail.uc.edu Distinguished Teaching Professor Award right arrow down arrow The awarding of the title of Distinguished Teaching Professor to a faculty member represents the highest level of recognition for achievements and contributions in university teaching. It recognizes the long-term commitment on the part of an individual to excel in teaching at the University of Cincinnati. This award is made for UC instructors who represent the ideal of the educational profession and have made impactful contributions in teaching, curricular development, and the mentoring and supervision of students. Award Overview: Candidates may be instructors of any subject and able to communicate a broad and accurate knowledge of their fields. Their work with students should be exemplary in the sense that they create a classroom environment that promotes learning, challenges students to think critically, and motivates students to their fullest potential. The instructors should go above and beyond in mentoring and supervising students. Nominees should also have: A minimum of 10 years of experience in teaching at the rank of instructor or higher and at the University of Cincinnati. Received an award for teaching excellence from the college, university, or a professional association.o Evidence of superior teaching of students resulting in significant impact upon their lives, including evidence of assessment measures to document student learning. Evidence of achievement in curricular development and academic planning beyond the individual classroom and subject. Evidence of scholarship, creativity, and innovation related to teaching and learning, such as through the scholarship of teaching and learning (SoTL) publications or presentations in peer-reviewed outlets. Evidence of recognition for contributions to teaching and learning beyond the university.o Evidence of effective mentoring and supervision with students. Submission Timeline: Due Monday November 22, 2021 What is needed for Submission: Deans or their representatives must submit an electronic copy of the nomination dossier in one single pdf file. The nomination packet should be no more than 30 pages in length with no addenda or appendixes. It should be organized according to the six selection criteria above and must include: A letter from the Dean documenting that the nominee has met the above criteria. A letter from the nominator (1000 words or less) that describes what makes the nominee a distinguished instructor and highlights major accomplishments relevant to the award. An abbreviated C.V. of the nominee. A list of courses taught over the last three years and a summary of related teaching activities (e.g. curriculum committees, new course development, improvements tolaboratories or equipment, pedagogical publications, mentoring, chairing, and/or advising activities). A summary of formal peer and student evaluations over the past three years. Please summarize student evaluations in a format that is efficient and clear regarding the main features of those evaluations. While both quantitative and qualitative data should be included, do not include copies of individual evaluations. This section should also clarify the methodology by which the student evaluations were collected. Letters from former students emphasizing the profound long-term impact of the professor’s influence on their lives (no more than two letters). Letters from individuals of state, national, and/or international organizations or agencies regarding the candidate’s stature as a teacher (no more than two letters). Letters of support (a maximum of two) from other UC faculty who have interacted extensively with the candidate and/or are knowledgeable about the candidate, especially if those colleagues have had their teaching impacted in substantial ways by the candidate. Colleges may only submit one nomination; therefore, an internal selection process – which shall be developed by the dean or the dean’s representative – should be completed prior to the submission deadline." as the first point under bold heading "What is needed for Submission UC Faculty and staff: Please submit all nominations using the Distinguished Teaching Professor nomination form. Questions: Rita Kumar Executive Director, Faculty Enrichment Center Phone: 513-556-7314 Email: Rita.Kumar@uc.edu Outstanding Adjunct Faculty Award right arrow down arrow The Outstanding Adjunct Faculty Award honors one faculty member who has exceeded the scope of their duties and has achieved new heights in teaching, research, and/or student learning. Award Criteria:· Teaching faculty with an FTE less than 100% are eligible. A committee will select the recipient. Any full or part‐time faculty member or student may nominate a candidate. Self-nominations are accepted. All nominators must adhere to the process described below. Submission Timeline: Due Monday November 22, 2021 What is needed for submission: Submit the nomination as a single electronic PDF file Nominations shall include a narrative of no more than 1000 words that describes the manner in which the candidate has exceeded expectations in academic excellence by serving students A letter of recommendation from the head of the appropriate academic unit that addresses how the applicant meets the award description. Candidates C.V. No more than two (2) additional letters of support from students and/or peers. A letter of support from the college dean UC Faculty and staff: Please submit all nominations using the Outstanding Adjunct Faculty Award nomination form. Questions: Rita Kumar Executive Director, Faculty Enrichment Center Phone: 513-556-7314 Email: Rita.Kumar@uc.edu Faculty Career Award right arrow down arrow The Office of the Provost honors members of the faculty who have worked to make UC a high-quality education and research-focused environment through the Faculty Career Award. Each year, this award recognizes the long-term contributions and achievements of one distinguished faculty member who has spent 10 or more years in service to UC and recognizes them for exemplifying excellence in teaching, research, and service. Award Criteria: Candidates may be nominated by any member of the UC faculty, staff, or administration. Candidates must be faculty at the rank of professor with 10 or more years of service to UC. Candidates must demonstrate long-term achievement and contributions in the areas of teaching, research (and/or accomplishments such as musical works and creative writing) and service. Although the candidate's record may be more heavily weighted toward one of these areas, some degree of excellence is required in all three areas. Submission Timeline: Due Monday November 22, 2021 What is needed for Submission: Nomination packet should be submitted electronically as a single pdf The nominator shall submit a letter to the committee (three page maximum) describing why the candidate is worthy of the award Candidate’s C.V. (no more than 5 pages) It is recommended that up to three (3) additional letters of nomination be submitted. It is recommended that one (1) comes from the nominee’s field outside the University of Cincinnati. These supplemental letters are limited to two (2) pages each. UC Faculty and staff: Please submit all nominations using the Faculty Career Award nomination form. Questions: Rita Kumar Executive Director, Faculty Enrichment Center Phone: 513-556-7314 Email: Rita.Kumar@uc.edu Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top