Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) About Apply for Housing Apply for Housing SMU Housing Portal Rate and Fees Living On Campus Living On Campus Residential Commons Upper-Division Housing Apartments Policies Get Involved Get Involved Dallas Community Departments Faculty Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Students Make A Request ☰ RLSH Get Involved Staff Staff People power our transformational living and learning environment at SMU. Learn more about our staff world-changers. People engage with Residence Life and Student Housing (RLSH) within a variety of formalized and organic roles related to our work. Below are the various groups of staff and how they contribute to our culture of success. Join us. Affiliate Program The Affiliate Program at SMU is an integral part of the Residential Commons, where faculty and staff commit to supporting the intellectual, cultural, and social life of the 11 communities by engaging residents and providing mentorship, guidance, and support to students. Affiliates get involved in the Residential Commons in a wide variety of ways, ranging from casual meals, sporting events, and social gatherings to lectures, career panels, and theatrical performances—to name a few. Regardless of their level of engagement, each of the faculty and staff listed here have indicated a willingness and enthusiasm to support students. Faculty affiliates Staff affiliates Interested staff are encouraged to email the director of academic initiatives to join the program. Faculty- and staff-affiliate contact information is available via the SMU People Directory. Committees, Task Forces, and Working Groups RLSH empowers and charges a number of committees, task forces, and working groups to advance our mission. Interested staff are encouraged to email the director of academic initiatives to join a committee, task force, or working group. Engage Dallas Engage Dallas is a place-based community engagement initiative via SMU’s Residential Commons to address community needs focusing on south and west Dallas. The initiative is a long-term, university-wide commitment led by students to partner with local residents, organizations, and other leaders to positively impact the community. There is equal emphasis on campus and community impact stemming from the initiative. Think big and do good today. Research Team Program The Research Team works to discover insights that improve the residential experience and aid overall student success at SMU. The Research Team comprises undergraduate and graduate students, staff, and/or faculty who work on a number of groundbreaking research projects. Learn more about our research projects, current members, and valuable insights we’ve utilized to improve our work. Interested staff are encouraged to email the director of academic initiatives to join the Research Team. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share