Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Visual Art Show/Hide About People Academics News + Events Resources FAQs Resources Digital image collections include the ARTstor and Luna Insight databases. In addition, Karen Bouchard or Brown University Library staff can offer advice to students, staff, and faculty on finding images, books and articles for your papers, models, and projects. Karen is available during the day in person by appointment or by email or chat. Please make an appointment for in-depth consultation. Library + Research Karen Bouchard, Scholarly Resources Librarian, Art and Architecture Rockefeller Library, A16 (401) 863 3218 [email protected] Fleet Library at RISD 15 Westminster St. Providence (401) 709-5900 [email protected] Materials The RISD Second Life 2nd Life is a nonprofit, student-run, upcycling program at the Rhode Island School of Design. This resource collects usable art supplies and raw materials to redistribute them back to the RISD/ Brown students and local community. The RISD Second Life Community Store/ Non-Profit 204 Westminster St., Providence RI Recycling Center Recycling for RI Education is a 501(c)3 non-profit educational and environmental organization. Its vision is to encourage self-discovery by active participation in teaching and learning through creative experiences. RRIE has as its mission to encourage preservation of the environment by diverting clean non-toxic reusable excess inventory from the business community to educators and community organization RI Recycling Center Community Store/ Non-Profit 204 Westminster St., Providence Services + Equipment Brown Design Workshop The Brown Design Workshop (BDW) in Prince Lab is an on-campus makerspace open to all Brown/RISD students. We are a key to the overall re-envisioning of engineering, which aims to make the disciplines of creation and design within the School of Engineering, more collaborative, open, flexible and accessible to all parts of campus. The BDW has a diverse array of construction tools. We also have quite a bit of material for use—leftover from research projects, coursework, and events in the space. We generally recommend bringing your own materials, but please come have a look at what we have stocked as well. Brown Design Workshop Prince Lab, the corner of Brook Street and Manning Walk Digital Scholarship Lab at the Rockefeller Library The Sidney E. Frank Digital Studio, opened in early 2016 with generous support from the Sidney E. Frank Foundation, provides a unique and exciting new intellectual hub for digitally enhanced scholarship at Brown University. Expanding on the concept and functionality of the adjacent Patrick Ma Digital Scholarship Lab, the Digital Studio facilitates both short-term and extended engagements with academic questions that benefit from the infusion of technology and new methodologies in research and learning. Open to all faculty and students, the Studio contains a 3D printer, 3D scanner, large-format plotter printer, and a fully equipped, soundproof audio/video recording suite. John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Library 10 Prospect Street List Art Equipment Lending Library The Lending Library housed in the List Art Building is available to any student enrolled in a VISA course. Some restrictions apply based on the course in which the student is enrolled. Equipment is available for a 7 day check-out period. Examples of equipment that is available includes digital cameras, film cameras, microphones, projectors, sound recorders, tripod and much more. Please email Winnie Gier with questions. Equipment Lending Library 64 College Street, room 515 Other Campus Resources Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) CSREA supports and generates rigorous and accessible research, performance, art and scholarship on a broad range of issues pertaining to race and ethnicity in America. First-Generation College Student and Low-Income Student Center Any student who self-identifies as having minimal prior exposure to or knowledge of experiences like those at Brown may be considered a first-generation student and may find additional resources, such as academic and social opportunities. Rites and Reason The mission of this theatre program is to develop new works for the American Stage, which analyze and articulate the phenomenal and universal odyssey of the African Diaspora. Over the years, the mission has grown to embrace the expression of other cultural experiences. Pembroke Center The Pembroke Center at Brown University is an interdisciplinary research center that fosters critical scholarship on questions of gender and difference, broadly defined, in national and transnational contexts. Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs The Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs is responsible for the recruitment, selection, education, successful academic progression, and graduation of minority students from Alpert Medical School, and raising awareness about cultural competency and diversity. Sarah Doyle Women’s Center SDWC welcomes those interested in issues around gender, and the intersections of gender and other markers of identity. The Center offers a variety of services and programs, as well as meeting space for University and community groups. Brown Center for Students of Color (BCSC) BCSC was created in 1976 to serve the interests and meet the needs of all Third World students and to promote racial and ethnic pluralism in the Brown community. The director of TWC holds an appointment as an assistant dean of the college and supports the academic needs of students of color. LGBTQ Center The LGBTQ Center provides a comprehensive range of education, information and advocacy services on lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer issues and works to create and maintain an open, safe and inclusive environment for LGBTQ students, faculty, and staff at Brown. Brown RISD Hillel As the largest student organization on campus, Hillel offers performing artists, lectures, Jewish learning, symposia, community action projects, Israel study, and a safe place for students to be Jewish. Office of Residential Life This office is responsible for maintaining student residences that support the educational mission of Brown and are designed to provide learning opportunities that promote students' academic endeavors, and which encourage their growth and development. The Office of Residential Life recognizes that learning is not solely academic in nature, and that a large part of learning takes place outside the classroom. Office of Student Veterans and Commissioning Programs This is a campus resource for student veterans, whether of the United States military or military service in other countries, and for students interesting in military officer commissioning programs, including ROTC. International Students Resources Various campus offices provide international student resources and advising. Student Groups Mutiple student organizations at Brown address the many facets of diversity. Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Visual Art Visual Art Brown University Box 1861 List Art Building 64 College St Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2423 Fax: 401-863-1680 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Custom Footer Links A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat