Individual Counseling (Short-Term)  - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services Services Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Individual Counseling (Short-Term) CAPS offers brief or short-term individual counseling for students who are ready to commit to going a little deeper into reasons for their current difficulties. Short-Term counseling is different from long-term or open-ended therapy in the sense that it is focused on specific issues and helps you make progress toward resolving an issue in a short time span. At CAPS we typically think of this time span as 1 semester or less, and we typically meet with you for appointments that are scheduled every two weeks. The fact that short-term counseling is goal-oriented means that it is not simply a place to “vent” or talk about the stressful events of the week. Instead, it is a collaborative effort to examine potential causes or reasons for your distress so you can increase your self-awareness and make changes in your life. Short-term therapy may involve an exploration of feelings, thoughts, or memories that you normally push away and will require self-reflection and active participation throughout the process. While short-term counseling can be highly effective and rewarding, it is not for everyone. For those who prefer to learn techniques or skills they can implement right away, we recommend one of our Essential Skills Workshops. Also, for those who need more ongoing support or more frequent sessions than brief therapy can offer, CAPS can help facilitate referrals to other therapists in the community who can provide longer-term or more frequently scheduled therapy sessions. Short-Term Counseling may be a good fit for you if: You are interested in actively exploring and addressing the reasons why you are unhappy, rather than simply vent your frustrations to someone. You don’t quite understand why you are feeling the way you are. You have specific goals you can work on in a short time-frame, but don’t really know where to begin. You are ready to confront issues, look inward, and explore your life. How to Schedule an Appointment: The first step in getting connected to services is to call us for a free brief assessment with a counselor who will discuss your needs and connect you to the service that is most likely to help you. Read more about your first visit. Related Links First Visit (Triage) University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies