Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Licensing Licensing right arrow down arrow I'm On Campus right arrow down arrow Internal Requests Sponsorships Fundraising Internal Consumption Policy NIL Requests I'm Off Campus right arrow down arrow University Sponsorship Policy Crafter's Program Licensees right arrow down arrow Code of Conduct Artwork Do's and Don'ts Policies FAQs Find Bearcats Gear right arrow down arrow Look for the Label Home » About UC » Licensing » I'm Off Campus Set Navigation title in component University Sponsorship Policy Crafter's Program Off Campus Any business that uses the university's name, trademarks, images, or other indicia in the course of trading and/or in promotion of its business will require a license. The license, and rights granted, will depend upon whether the business is a sponsor, a licensee, a vendor of the university or other and dependent upon the proposed use. Sponsorships Sponsorship Request Form University Sponsorship Policy Is your company or organization interested in being affiliated with the University? The University defines this association as a sponsorship. Before any sponsorship activities take place between an outside company or organization and the University, approval must be granted. Below are the steps of the request process. Begin the process early to allow sufficient time for review. We recommend at least 60 days prior to the activation of the sponsorship. Design artwork for the sponsorship, if necessary. See the Do's & Don'ts for artwork guidelines. Select a sponsorship approved vendor to produce any products associated with the sponsorship. These vendors are listed below. Complete the Sponsorship Request Form (linked above) describing the sponsorship activity, sponsor/outside organization involved, and which University mark(s) are being requested to use. Please provide as much information on this form as possible. Note: If artwork is associated with the sponsorship, please upload the artwork in the form. The Sponsorship Review Committee will review your request. It typically takes 2-4 weeks to process each request. After the review has been completed, we will e-mail the requestor and sponsor confirming if the request has been approved as shown, if any changes are required, or if the request has been denied along with an explanation. Note: Approval to use the University's brand in partner with a sponsorship/outside company does not allow approval to use the brand again without seeking additional approval. You must submit a new form for each new request. Video/Photography Requests Location Request Form Both internal and external organizations are often interested in filming and/or taking pictures in various locations of the University of Cincinnati’s campus. The university must monitor and control video and photo shoots on campus to ensure the content is appropriate, adequate safety measures are in place, and the university receives appropriate consideration for access to and affiliation with the university's brand. The university considers requests on a case-by-case basis. If approved, production must not interfere with university operations. Note that we charge a standard day rate of $1,000 plus expenses to film/take pictures on campus. In order to streamline the review of requests and ensure that an appropriate representative is signing agreements covering these projects on behalf of the university, the following location request procedure has been established to request permission to film or photograph on campus. Begin the process early to allow sufficient time for review. We recommend at least 30 days prior to when you want to film and/or photograph campus. Complete the Location Request Form (linked above) describing your project. We will review your request. It typically takes 1 week to review a request. After the review of the request has been completed, we will notify the requestor of the status of the request. If the request has been approved, we will draft a location agreement and send it to the requestor for review and signing. We will also send an invoice for the total amount due at this time. Corporate Responsibility Code of Conduct Licensee Factory Disclosures The University of Cincinnati is committed to conducting its business affairs in a socially responsible and ethical manner, whice are consistent with its educational, research, and service missions. As part of that commitment, the University expects its licensees to recognize their responsibility to respect workers rights, and provide fair wages and safe working conditions for their employees producing products or services they manufacture, sell, or distribute. To ensure these goals are met, the university has adopted a Code of Conduct as part of its licensing agreements through CLC. The Code articulates the principles and standards licensees are required to maintain, and that the licensees are responsible for ensuring the Code is followed by their contractors, subcontractors, and primary suppliers. University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 licensing@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top