Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY PEDIATRIC DENTISTRY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 PEDO 550 P-Directed Studies in Pediatric Dentistry (*, max. 6) See DPHS 449 for course description. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 550 PEDO 560 Fundamentals of Pediatric Dentistry (1) Preclinical laboratory, lecture course covering fundamentals of primary care in pediatric dentistry, including behavior management, dental emergencies, prevention, diagnosis and treatment planning, and infection control. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 560 PEDO 570 Pediatric Dentistry Seminar I (2) Principles and theory of child development and behavior management for pediatric patient, including sedation, general anesthesia, and principles of informed consent, pathology of oral manifestations of diseases of children and adolescents, pediatric radiology, and use of computers in didactic, clinical, and research endeavors, and scientific basis for the prevention and treatment of dental caries, periodontal disease, and developmental anomalies. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 570 PEDO 571 Pediatric Dentistry Seminar II (2) Principles and theory of child development and behavior management for pediatric patient, including sedation, general anesthesia, and principles of informed consent, pathology of oral manifestations of diseases of children and adolescents, pediatric radiology, and use of computers in didactic, clinical, and research endeavors, and scientific basis for the prevention and treatment of dental caries, periodontal disease, and developmental anomalies. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 571 PEDO 572 Pediatric Dentistry Seminar III (2) Principles and theory of child development and behavior management for pediatric patient, including sedation, general anesthesia, and principles of informed consent, pathology of oral manifestations of diseases of children and adolescents, pediatric radiology, and use of computers in didactic, clinical, and research endeavors, and scientific basis for the prevention and treatment of dental caries, periodontal disease, and developmental anomalies. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 572 PEDO 573 Pediatric Dentistry Seminar IV (2) Principles and theory of child development and behavior management for pediatric patient, including sedation, general anesthesia, and principles of informed consent, pathology of oral manifestations of diseases of children and adolescents, pediatric radiology, and use of computers in didactic, clinical, and research endeavors, and scientific basis for the prevention and treatment of dental caries, periodontal disease, and developmental anomalies. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 573 PEDO 574 Pediatric Dentistry Seminar V (2) Principles and theory of child development and behavior management for pediatric patient. Sedation, general anesthesia, and principles of informed consent, pathology of oral manifestations of diseases of children and adolescents, pediatric radiology, and use of computers in didactic, clinical, and research endeavors, and the scientific basis for prevention and treatment of dental caries, periodontal disease, and developmental anomalies. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 574 PEDO 575 Pediatric Dentistry Seminar VI (2) Principles and theory of child development and behavior management for pediatric patient. Sedation, general anesthesia, and principles of informed consent, pathology of oral manifestations of diseases of children and adolescents, pediatric radiology, and use of computers in didactic, clinical, and research endeavors, and the scientific basis for prevention and treatment of dental caries, periodontal disease, and developmental anomalies. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 575 PEDO 576 Pediatric Dentistry Seminar VII (2) Principles and theory of child development and behavior management for pediatric patient. Sedation, general anesthesia, and principles of informed consent, pathology of oral manifestations of diseases of children and adolescents, pediatric radiology, and use of computers in didactic, clinical, and research endeavors, and the scientific basis for prevention and treatment of dental caries, periodontal disease, and developmental anomalies. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 576 PEDO 577 Pediatric Dentistry Seminar VIII (2) Principles and theory of child development and behavior management for pediatric patient. Sedation, general anesthesia, and principles of informed consent, pathology of oral manifestations of diseases of children and adolescents, pediatric radiology, and use of computers in didactic, clinical, and research endeavors, and the scientific basis for prevention and treatment of dental caries, periodontal disease, and developmental anomalies. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 577 PEDO 580 Developmental Disabilities Seminar (1) Multidisciplinary approach to managing children with developmental disabilities. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 580 PEDO 581 Developmental Disabilities Seminar (1) Multidisciplinary approach to managing children with developmental disabilities. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 581 PEDO 582 Developmental Disabilities Seminar (1) Multidisciplinary approach to managing children with developmental disabilities. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 582 PEDO 583 Developmental Disabilities Seminar (1) Multidisciplinary approach to managing children with developmental disabilities. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 583 PEDO 584 Pediatric Dentistry Seminar (2) In-depth knowledge and understanding of the topics related to, and supportive, of, the clinical practice of pediatric dentistry. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 584 PEDO 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 600 PEDO 650 P-Pediatric Dentistry Extramurals (1-6, max. 6) Clinical extramurals in the field of children's dentistry. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 650 PEDO 652 Pediatric Dentistry Off-Site Clinical Rotation (3) 2-week clinical rotation at the Sea Mar White Center Dental Clinic, during which students treat pediatric patients under supervision by a calibrated pediatric dentist. Participants will increase the number and diversity of pediatric dental procedures performed, practice four-handed dentistry in a pediatric community health setting, and be exposed to a diverse population of underserved pediatric patients. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 652 PEDO 660 P-Clinical Pediatric Dentistry (1-3, max. 3) Clinical experience for graduate pediatric dental students in basic through advanced pediatric dentistry. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 660 PEDO 661 P-Clinical Pediatric Dentistry (1-3, max. 3) Clinical experience for graduate pediatric dental students in basic through advanced pediatric dentistry. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 661 PEDO 662 P-Clinical Pediatric Dentistry (1-3, max. 3) Clinical experience for graduate pediatric dental students in basic through advanced pediatric dentistry. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 662 PEDO 663 P-Clinical Pediatric Dentistry (1-3, max. 3) Clinical experience for graduate pediatric dental students in basic through advanced pediatric dentistry. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 663 PEDO 664 P-Clinical Pediatric Dentistry (1-3, max. 3) Clinical experience for graduate pediatric dental students in basic through advanced pediatric dentistry. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 664 PEDO 665 P-Clinical Pediatric Dentistry (1-3, max. 3) Clinical experience for graduate pediatric dental students in basic through advanced pediatric dentistry. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 665 PEDO 666 P-Clinical Pediatric Dentistry (1-3, max. 3) Clinical experience for graduate pediatric dental students in basic through advanced pediatric dentistry. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 666 PEDO 667 P-Clinical Pediatric Dentistry (1-3, max. 3) Clinical experience for graduate pediatric dental students in basic through advanced pediatric dentistry. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 667 PEDO 668 Clinical Clerkship in Pediatric Dentistry: Yakima Valley (*, max. 5) Comprehensive dental care for economically-disadvantaged children in a rural community health center. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 668 PEDO 669 Supervised Clinical Teaching (1-3, max. 4) Graduate pediatric dental students provide clinical instruction for predoctoral dental students by supervising clinical sessions. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 669 PEDO 670 Hospital Pediatric Dentistry (1-3, max. 3) Diagnosis, management, and treatment of patients with disabilities in Seattle Children's Hospital Dental Clinic. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 670 PEDO 671 Hospital Pediatric Dentistry (1-3, max. 3) Diagnosis, management, and treatment of patients with disabilities in Seattle Children's Hospital Dental Clinic. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 671 PEDO 672 Hospital Pediatric Dentistry (1-3, max. 3) Diagnosis, management, and treatment of patients with disabilities in Seattle Children's Hospital Dental Clinic. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 672 PEDO 673 Hospital Pediatric Dentistry (1-3, max. 3) Diagnosis, management, and treatment of patients with disabilities in Seattle Children's Hospital Dental Clinic. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 673 PEDO 674 Hospital Pediatric Dentistry (1-3, max. 3) Diagnosis, management, and treatment of patients with disabilities in Seattle Children's Hospital Dental Clinic. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 674 PEDO 675 Hospital Pediatric Dentistry (1-3, max. 3) Diagnosis, management, and treatment of patients with disabilities in Seattle Children's Hospital Dental Clinic. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 675 PEDO 676 Hospital Pediatric Dentistry (1-3, max. 3) Diagnosis, management, and treatment of patients with disabilities in Seattle Children's Hospital Dental Clinic. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 676 PEDO 677 Hospital Pediatric Dentistry (1-3, max. 3) Diagnosis, management, and treatment of patients with disabilities in Seattle Children's Hospital Dental Clinic. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 677 PEDO 679 Care of the Disabled Pediatric Patient (1) Clinical experiences in the management of disabled patients. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 679 PEDO 680 Pediatric Dentistry under General Anesthesia (1-4, max. 4) Clinical course involving preoperative assessment of comprehensive dental treatment under general anesthesia and follow-up care. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 680 PEDO 681 Pediatric Dentistry under General Anesthesia (1-4, max. 4) Clinical course involving preoperative assessment of comprehensive dental treatment under general anesthesia and follow-up care. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 681 PEDO 682 Pediatric Dentistry under General Anesthesia (1-4, max. 4) Clinical course involving preoperative assessment of comprehensive dental treatment under general anesthesia and follow-up care. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 682 PEDO 683 Pediatric Dentistry under General Anesthesia (1-4, max. 4) Clinical course involving preoperative assessment of comprehensive dental treatment under general anesthesia and follow-up care. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 683 PEDO 699 Pediatric Orthodontic Clinic (1-4, max. 4) Clinical orthodontic care for pediatric patients. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PEDO 699 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022