Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites Outreach Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift Outreach Social Impact Telehealth and community health initiatives offer the potential to eliminate barriers to health care and are a springboard for several national and international collaborations. University of Kansas Center for Telemedicine & Telehealth As one of the oldest and most successful telehealth programs in the world, The University of Kansas Center for Telemedicine & Telehealth (KUCTT) is a recognized as a world leader in telehealth services and research. Beginning in 1991 with a single connection to western Kansas, the Kansas telehealth network now has more than 100 sites throughout the state. Since that time, KUCTT has conducted thousands of clinical consultations for Kansans and hosted more than 100,000 educational events for health professionals, teachers, students and the public across the network. University of Kansas Institute for Community Engagement The Institute for Community Engagement supports practical work with community partners that extends beyond our walls, propelling communities and academia forward. The Institute facilitates further success for outreach initiatives by providing collaborative resources for relationship-building, grant and research assistance, and communications support to KU Medical Center faculty, staff and students. Health Technology Extension – Statewide distance health and education Evidence Based Community Scholarship – Leading and supporting community health research Community Practice Development – Supporting and guiding community practices with latest advances Statewide Workforce Preparation – Developing current and future health care providers Community Health Resources – Reports, research and data on rural and community health Juntos: Center for Advancing Latino Health Juntos seeks to generate and disseminate knowledge to eliminate health disparities in the under-served Latino communities in Kansas. El objetivo principal es desarrollar un programa integral y sostenible en el Centro Médico de la Universidad de Kansas, totalmente integrado con la comunidad latina en Kansas que mejorará la salud de la comunidad y avanzará en el campo de la investigación de servicios de salud. Project Eagle Early childhood education and comprehensive family support are the mission of Project Eagle. The program manages multiple home-based and center-based initiatives in Wyandotte County. Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.