Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager STIs Pubic Lice and Scabies What are pubic lice and scabies? Pubic lice (often called "crabs") and scabies (itch mites) are tiny insects that live on the skin. They are sometimes spread sexually, but you can also pick them up by using the same bed linen, clothes, or towels as an infected person. Pubic lice infect hairy parts of the body, especially around the groin and under the arms. Scabies cause an itchy rash, and are the result of a female mite burrowing into a person's skin to lay her eggs. Are they common? Every year, millions of people experience infections from pubic lice or scabies. How are they transmitted? Pubic lice and scabies are transmitted through contact with an infected area on another person or through contact with infested materials such as sheets, towels, undergarments, or hairbrushes. Lice may live away from the body on these materials up to 2 days and eggs live up to 6 days. What are their symptoms? Although some people infected with pubic lice have no symptoms, you may experience considerable itching around the genitals. You may see light-brown insects the size of a pinhead moving on the skin or oval eggs attached to your body hair. The main symptom of scabies is itching, especially at night. You may also see burrows under the skin or a rash may appear in the folds of skin between the fingers or on the wrists, elbows, abdomen, or genitals. How soon after exposure to them will symptoms appear? After you are exposed to pubic lice or scabies, it may be 2 to 6 weeks before symptoms are evident. How are they diagnosed? If you think you may have pubic lice or scabies, see your medical provider. They will visually examine your pubic hair for signs of adult lice, lice eggs (nits), or mites. If you have a scabies infection, your medical provider may also take a skin scraping, looking for mite eggs and/or fecal matter, to confirm the diagnosis. Your medical provider can then determine whether or not you need to seek treatment. How are they treated? The treatment is fairly simple. A medical provider will prescribe a medicated lotion, cream or shampoo that will be applied to the infected area. The most effective treatments include shampoos and creams that contain Lindane and you can pick up this prescription from the pharmacy in Health Services. Follow the directions carefully. The infestation may be stubborn, and you may need to repeat the treatment. Wash your clothes and bed linens in hot water, dry-clean them or press them with a very hot iron. Vacuum your mattress and bed. Avoid close contact with others and be sure to tell your sex partner(s). Anyone that you've had close contact with or who has shared your bed linens, clothes, or towels should be treated, even if they don't have an itch or rash. Can infections of pubic lice or scabies be dangerous? Fortunately, itchy and annoying is about all these lice and mites are. They are not carriers of other STIs or infections. Once you and anyone that you have close contact with have been successfully treated, you should be free of these parasites. Related Links For more information about pubic lice or scabies, you can visit: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Pubic Lice Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Scabies About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook