Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) » Making a Report Set Navigation title in component Making a Report Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Making a Report If you are experiencing an emergency situation, call 911 to reach the police. When you make a report, please share the Ws (who, what, when, where). Please do not investigate on your own, handle matters internally, promise confidentiality (if you are a mandatory reporter), or wait to make the report. Reports should be made within 24 hours of learning of the event(s). Please note that making a report is not the same as filing an formal complaint. The best way to make a report is by emailing the Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion at ogei@uc.edu. Reports can also be made to the Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion by calling us at 513-556-3349, visiting us at our office located at 225 Calhoun St., or having us come to your location. Make a Report Online Make an Anonymous Report Reports may also be made to the University of Cincinnati Police Department at (513) 556-1111, 51 West Corry Blvd. Reports may be made simultaneously to law enforcement and the Title IX Coordinator. Confidential Resources If you would like to speak with someone confidentially about your reporting options or experience, see our list of resources under 'Support and Resources.' All are trained to provide free support services to individuals who experience sexual violence. Seeking Medical Treatment If you choose to seek medical treatment following a sexual assault, you may obtain medical assistance at the University of Cincinnati Medical Center, located at 234 Goodman Street, Cincinnati, OH 45219. There is generally no cost associated with a sexual assault exam.* A counselor or advocate is available to accompany you to the hospital. If you choose to seek medical assistance, please keep the following in mind: You may request a forensic examination from a Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) by visiting the Emergency Room in the University of Cincinnati Medical Center. Nurses trained to help sexual assault survivors are available on-call at all times. Please take a change of clothing with you if possible. Try not to shower, drink, eat, douche, brush your teeth, brush your hair, or change your clothes as these activities may affect the hospital’s ability to obtain physical evidence if you decide to move forward with a criminal complaint. You may obtain free, emergency contraception at the University of Cincinnati Medical Center. Seeking medical care at University of Cincinnati Medical Center does not obligate you to file charges with the police department. Services for victims of sexual assault are also provided by the University Health Services regardless of the duration of time since the assault occurred. If the sexual assault occurred within the last 72 hours, you will be encouraged to seek care at University of Cincinnati Medical Center where evidence can be collected. If you choose to be seen at University Health Services, evidence will not be collected. Concerns about sexually transmitted infections and pregnancy will be addressed, as well as a discussion of resources and a plan for follow-up care. * A sexual assault exam will generally be covered at no cost at the University of Cincinnati Medical Center if the assault occurred in Ohio. Any cost incurred for the collection of forensic evidence in sexual assault cases, including the cost of any antibiotics for sexually transmitted infections, emergency contraceptives or pregnancy test administered as part of the examination, will NOT be billed or charged, directly or indirectly, to the victim or the victim’s insurer. Patients are responsible for the cost of other medical tests (not included in the sexual assault exam) or treatment needed as a result of the assault, such as x-ray, stiches, or pain medication. Any ancillary emergency room treatment or exams will be billed to the insurance company of the patient and then to the patient. Expenses not covered by insurance may be costs eligible for reimbursement from the Ohio Crime Victims Compensation program. Office Location Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion 308 USquare, 225 Calhoun St. Cincinnati, OH 45221-0158 ogei@uc.edu Hours: Monday - Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top