Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Campus gathering mourns victims of synagogue shootings in Pittsburgh by the Office of Communications Nov. 6, 2018, 11:50 a.m. Eleven candles flicker on stage at McCosh 50 lecture hall Monday evening as students, faculty and staff held a vigil to mourn the 11 people killed in the Oct. 27 shootings at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh. Photo by Maddy Pryor, Office of Communications Hundreds of students, faculty and staff gathered in the McCosh 50 lecture hall Monday evening to honor the memory of those killed in the Oct. 27 attack at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh. The Center for Jewish Life sponsored the vigil, which was timed to follow the return of students to campus after fall break. Rabbi Julie Roth, executive director of the Center for Jewish Life, speaks at the vigil. Photo by Maddy Pryor, Office of Communications Rabbi Julie Roth, CJL’s executive director and a Jewish chaplain at the University, welcomed the audience to the lecture hall, which was packed with people who had come through the rain from across campus. Vigil participants placed electric votive candles on the tops of the desks in the room. “This is an incredible show of solidarity for peace and against anti-Semitism and all forms of hate,” said W. Rochelle Calhoun, the University’s vice president for campus life. “Even when things seem the darkest, the Princeton community will shine the light of hope and love and unity.” Other speakers included Dean of the College Jill Dolan and Isabel Segal of the Class of 2022, who both grew up in the Squirrel Hill neighborhood near the synagogue where the shootings took place; Rabbi Eitan Webb, director of Chabad House and a Jewish chaplain; and Rabbi Ira Dounn, senior Jewish educator at CJL. Several other University administrators gave brief reflections. Students sat in a circle on stage and read brief biographies of the 11 people killed in Pittsburgh. Koleinu, the University’s Jewish a cappella group, led the singing of the Mourner’s Kaddish and finished the program with a rendition of the song This Little Light of Mine. Professor of Mathematics Peter Ozsvath performs Etz Chayim Hi (It Is a Tree of Life) on the cello before the start of the vigil in room 50 at McCosh Hall. Photo by Maddy Pryor, Office of Communications Related Stories University offers condolences after Pittsburgh tragedy; campus gathering planned Nov. 5 Read more Princeton campus mourns victims of New Zealand mosque shootings Read more Princeton marks more than 50 years of kosher dining on campus Read more Campus vigil for victims of Pittsburgh synagogue shootings moved indoors Read more Princeton student Jacob Kaplan, computer science major, dies Read more Princeton University community rallies around Ukraine Read more Ceremony honoring James Johnson arch invokes 'ancestors who can galvanize community' Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice