Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home News 2022 Grad Profile: James Rice Profile 2022 Grad Profile: James Rice April 27, 2022 James Rice Undergraduate Major: Archeology Tell us about your path to GS! My path to GS began all the way back in 2001. Two months after 9/11, I left high school and joined the military after my 17th birthday. I served four years and was deployed once to Afghanistan. While on deployment, I spent a large amount of my time working with the people of Afghanistan: crane operators, truck drivers, school teachers, and children. Working with these people really highlighted the humanitarian aspect of war and started to lead me on a different path where I could enhance my own life and begin to help people. After my deployment, I began working with the Secret Service. I served under President Bush and President Obama. While working there, I got to see first hand what it means to be a leader and take responsibility for your own actions. The combined experience of my government service created a set of ideals that helped me succeed at GS. What has been your proudest Columbia moment? My proudest moment at Columbia is the overall acceptance by the community. As one of the older students, I have always felt welcome in all my classes. Belonging to the Columbia community is my proudest and most unexpected achievement. Who are some people who have contributed the most to your Columbia experience? There are two professors that impacted my time at GS. First, was Professor Margaret Scarborough who taught Elementary Italian 1. She made learning a new language engaging and fun. The foreign language requirement was one that I dreaded and she made it comfortable and enjoyable. She also led me to the other professor who was impactful, Professor Nelson Moe. I took Italian Cultural Studies 1 and 2 as well as Mafia Movies from Professor Moe, and he helped me learn what it means to have Columbia-level discussions. What advice would you give to a Columbia student starting their GS journey? The advice I would give to an incoming student would be to make the journey your own experience. It is not easy to get here, and you should enjoy the journey while it lasts. Tags Student Profile Undergraduate Veterans News May 27, 2022 Join Us: Columbia Reunion Weekend in New York City May 26, 2022 Lewisohn Hall Summer Closure | Summer 2022 Temporary Relocation to Uris Hall May 26, 2022 Postbac Premed Program Institutional Scholarship Application May 24, 2022 GS Celebrates the Class of 2022 at Class Day Ceremony May 24, 2022 Academic Resource Center Summer Offerings Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close