Skip to main content Toggle navigation University of Pennsylvania Graduate School of Education About Penn GSE & Our Impact Philadelphia Impact Global Initiatives Diversity & Inclusion Catalyst @ Penn GSE Penn GSE Leadership Contact Us Academics & Research Program Finder Academic Divisions & Programs Professional Development & Continuing Education Center for Professional Learning Teacher Programs & Certifications Undergraduates Dual and Joint Degrees Faculty Directory Research Centers, Projects & Initiatives Lectures & Colloquia Books & Publications Academic Journals Admissions & Financial Aid Application Requirements & Deadlines Tuition & Financial Aid Campus Visits & Events International Students Penn Undergraduates Non-Degree Studies Contact Admissions / Request Information Student Experience Life at Penn GSE Penn GSE Career Paths Living in Philadelphia DE&I Resources for Students Student Organizations Student Blogs Career & Professional Development News & Events News Events Calendar The Educator's Playbook Find an Expert Explore by Topic Philadelphia Impact Global Initiatives Race, Equity & Inclusion Counseling & Psychology Education Innovation & Entrepreneurship Education Policy & Analysis Higher Education Language, Literacy & Culture Leadership Teaching & Learning Special Topic: COVID-19 Support Penn GSE The Future of Education Our Impact The Power of Possibility Ways to Give Contact Development & Alumni Relations Find a Program Request Info Apply Make a Gift Info For Alumni Current Students Staff & Faculty Donors Employers Search form Search You are here Home > Academics & Research > Research Centers, Projects & Initiatives Research Centers, Projects & Initiatives Penn GSE is home to several faculty-run centers that produce cutting-edge research on global issues in education. Additionally, the School’s many practice-driven initiatives put innovative practices, strategies, and tools directly into the hands of practitioners, both in Philadelphia and across the globe. Alliance for Higher Education and Democracy (Penn AHEAD) The Alliance for Higher Education and Democracy (Penn AHEAD) is dedicated to fostering open, equitable, and democratic societies through higher education. Research Catalyst @ Penn GSE A center for global education innovation, Catalyst @ Penn GSE connects people and ideas to develop new ways to advance education in novel and meaningful directions. Research Catalyst Community Conversations Catalyst Community Conversations (CCC) develops, implements, and facilitates public deliberative conversations on important issues. Research Center for Professional Learning Penn GSE’s Center for Professional Learning offers Virtual Institutes, Certificate Programs, and a variety of webinars and workshops for teachers, school leaders, and community organizations. Research Center for School Study Councils The Center for School Study Councils (CSSC) serves as a catalyst for public school superintendents to be proactive leaders and facilitates their professional learning and application of that learning. Research Center on Standards, Alignment, Instruction, and Learning The Center on Standards, Alignment, Instruction, and Learning (C-SAIL) examines how college- and career-ready standards are implemented, if they improve student learning, and what instructional tools measure and support their implementation. Research Coalition for Educational Equity The Coalition for Educational Equity provides innovative resources, research-based training, and technical assistance and consultation to school district leaders throughout the Mid-Atlantic region in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and New York. Research Collaboratory for Teacher Education The Collaboratory for Teacher Education at Penn GSE is a laboratory for the design, implementation, and study of experimental approaches to teacher education. Research Community Based Math Project The Community Based Mathematics Project brings together Philadelphia teachers and Penn GSE faculty and students to develop locally relevant and social justice oriented mathematics curriculum. Research Consortium For Policy Research In Education The Consortium for Policy Research in Education (CPRE) is a joint effort of seven graduate schools of education. Its research focuses on school reform, governance, policy, and finance. Research Core Practice Consortium The Core Practice Consortium brings together teacher educators from across institutions, disciplines, and theoretical perspectives to grapple with questions about how better to prepare novice teachers. Research CPRE Mathematics Formative Assessment Project The Ongoing Assessment Project (OGAP) is a large-scale field trial of a mathematics formative assessment program conducted by CPRE and funded by the National Science Foundation. Research Digital Discourse Project A research group to learn everything we can about having high-quality digital discussions about literature in English Language Arts (ELA) classrooms. Research Digital Seeds/Semillas Digitales Semillas Digitales (Digital Seeds in English) is a research-based initiative that collaborates with local stakeholders to improve education in coffee-producing communities in Nicaragua through holistic teacher support and technology integration. Research Ethnography in Education Research Forum Convened by the Center for Urban Ethnography at Penn GSE since 1980, the Ethnography in Education Research Forum is the largest annual meeting of qualitative researchers in education. Research Harold W. McGraw, Jr. Prize in Education The Harold W. McGraw, Jr. Prize in Education celebrates innovation in education by recognizing outstanding individuals who have dedicated themselves to improving education and whose accomplishments are making a difference today. Research HEARD: The Hub for Equity, Anti-Oppression, Research, and Development HEARD: The Hub for Equity, Anti-Oppression, Research, and Development at GSE draws together members of our community committed to equity and anti-oppression scholarship and to provide opportunities for continuing learning. Research Institute for Research on Higher Education The Institute for Research on Higher Education (IRHE) is a university-wide research institute that conducts research relevant to policymakers and educational practitioners. Research Literacy.org: National Center for Adult Literacy/International Literacy Institute The National Center for Adult Literacy (NCAL) focuses on research, innovation, and training in adult education and technology. The International Literacy Institute (ILI), established by UNESCO and Penn in 1994, provides leadership in research, development, and training in the broad field of international literacy and... Research Milken-Penn GSE Education Business Plan Competition The EBPC is considered the most prestigious and well-funded education business plan competition, celebrating and nurturing meaningful innovations in education, offering a full range of supports to elevate ideas to the next level and move research into practice. Research Office of School and Community Engagement The OSCE builds partnerships with Philadelphia educators, schools, and community organizations to address the challenges of urban education and contribute to residents’ growth and wellbeing. Research PEDAL: Practical English for Daily Living PEDAL: Practical English for Daily Living offers free English as a Second Language classes taught by students in the M.S.Ed. TESOL program. It provides courses for family members of staff, students, professors, scholars, and post-docs at Penn, as well as Community courses for West Philadelphians. Research PELS: Penn Educational Leadership Simulations The Penn Educational Leadership Simulations (PELS) Program builds on the rich experiences of veteran educational leaders by creating problem-based simulations in both online and in-person formats. Research Penn Center for Learning Analytics The Penn Center for Learning Analytics uses a blend of large-scale and small-scale research methods, from analytics and data mining to ethnographic and field observation methods, to study learning and engagement. Research Penn Child Research Center The Penn Child Research Center promotes the educational and psychological well-being of children through the application of informed social and scientific policy. Research Penn Futures Project The Penn Futures Project is an ambitious and unprecedented initiative by the Graduate School of Education, the School of Nursing, and the School of Social Policy & Practice to collaboratively address pressing social issues that affect Philadelphia’s most vulnerable young people and their families. Research Penn GSE in Philadelphia Heat Map Our searchable Penn GSE in Philadelphia map offers a snapshot of the many ways that Penn GSE students, alumni, faculty, and staff are answering the call to action and service in schools and community organizations across the city. Research Penn Literacy Network The Penn Literacy Network (PLN) is a comprehensive professional development/curricular enhancement/school reform program, providing on-site and regionally-based credit-bearing or non-credit bearing courses, workshops, coaching programs, and leadership trainings. Research Philadelphia Writing Project The Philadelphia Writing Project (PhilWP) is network of over 800 teacher consultants who work with teachers and other educators to explore literacy, writing, teaching, and learning in their classrooms and schools regardless of grade or discipline. Research Project for Mental Health and Optimal Development The Project for Mental Health and Optimal Development, based at Penn’s Graduate School of Education, explores the relationship between mental health and optimal development among children, youth, and the adults who support them. Research Racial Empowerment Collaborative The Racial Empowerment Collaborative (REC) is a research, program development, and training center that brings together community leaders, researchers, authority figures, families, and youth to study and promote racial literacy and health in schools and neighborhoods. Research Red Interamericana de Liderazgo Educacional The Inter-American Educational Leadership Network (RILE) is a collaboration with colleagues throughout Latin America and the United States. RILE offers in-person and mixed learning opportunities to educational leaders seeking to promote change in their communities. Research Responsive Math Teaching Responsive math teaching (RMT) is instruction where the teacher continuously elicits information about what students currently know and understand and responds in ways that move them forward in relation to developmental and grade-level mathematical goals. Research Teaching Beyond September 11th A multimodal curriculum for high school and college educators and students about the ongoing global impact of 9/11, focusing on the years 2001-2021. Research The RIPPLE Lab The Research and Interventions Promoting Positive Learning Environments (RIPPLE) Lab group conducts research on how children’s early education experiences shape their development and learning, and how policies and programs can improve these experiences. Research Urban Education Journal The Penn GSE Perspectives on Urban Education journal is an electronic, student-run publication and interactive forum to investigate critical issues in urban education. Research West Philadelphia Collaborative History West Philadelphia Collaborative History is a website with resources on the history of 20th- and 21st-century West Philadelphia, along with a series of programs to encourage community collaboration and to support educators seeking to use local history in the classroom. Research Working Papers in Educational Linguistics Working Papers in Educational Linguistics is a student-managed journal focused on the many areas of research within educational linguistics. Research University of Pennsylvania Graduate School of Education 3700 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 1-877-PENN-GSE admissions@gse.upenn.edu About Admissions & Financial Aid Find a Program Visiting Campus Alumni Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Directory Open Faculty Positions Support Penn GSE Academic Calendar Events Calendar Career & Professional Development Canvas Access PennInTouch Libraries Registrar/Student Records Office Webmail Business Office Facility Services Human Resources Information Technology Staff Directory U@Penn Report accessibility issues and request help © 2022 Penn Graduate School of Education Facebook Twitter Vimeo LinkedIn Instagram Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Penn GSE Equal Opportunity & Harassment Policies