By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Admitted In this Section Syracuse Bound Checklist Housing Deferral Request Living Learning Communities Health and Wellness Requirements Dining & Meal Plans Expenses, Billing, & Payment Things to Consider Technology Important Dates International Students Veterans Visit Opportunities Discovery Program Syracuse Pathway Program HEOP & SSS SummerStart FAQ Rise as one of us Join the class Congratulations on your acceptance to Syracuse University! You can accept your offer below, or keep reading to get a better sense of what it means to be #SyracuseBound. Celebrate your acceptance Join Our Orange Family Join a global community that embraces diverse perspectives—a community that fosters a spirit of innovation and entrepreneurship, that prepares you to be a creative and critical thinker. Accept your offer of admission Plan a Visit From virtual sessions to campus tours, there are so many ways for you to discover what makes Syracuse University so special. Explore our beautiful campus Billing and Expenses See which financial aid options can help make paying for college flexible for you and your family. Learn about our financial support Campus Housing Living on campus can make your life more convenient and connected. Learn about your options and prepare to make your arrangements for the housing process. Discover your housing options Dining and Meal Plans Explore our convenient, connected housing options and prepare to make your living arrangements. Explore meal plans Life at Syracuse Discover a bold, spirited community where you’ll find plenty of ways to be yourself—and belong to something bigger. Get to know us Play Your browser does not support the video tag. Rhapsody in Orange We can talk about Syracuse University until we’re orange and blue in the face, but we’d rather have you feel it. This introduction will show you what it means - and how it feels - to be one of us. Admitted International Students Congratulations on your acceptance to Syracuse University! You are about to join a diverse, global community of students and scholars, representing 125+ countries. We look forward to meeting you! Join Us Admitted Military-Connected Students Syracuse University’s enduring commitment to veteran and military-connected students dates back more than 100 years. Find out why we’re continually recognized as a Best Place for Veterans. Learn about benefits, on-campus resources and more Merit- and Talent-Based Scholarships These scholarships recognize academic, personal and creative achievements. Recipients are notified of their merit award in their admission notification letter. Learn about awards Accessibility Resources Syracuse University is an inclusive community. We seek to provide equal opportunities for all, including individuals with disabilities. Learn about our support services Living Learning Communities Living Learning Communities or theme housing provides the opportunity to grow with other students who share your passions. Explore communities Contact Us Call 315.443.3611 or contact your admissions representative for specific questions about your academic program. Your admission to Syracuse University is contingent upon maintaining the same level of academic achievement, graduating from secondary school, and having a record of good citizenship at all times. The University expects our students to conduct themselves in a manner that aligns with and is supportive of the educational mission of the institution. Integrity, respect for others and a commitment to intellectual and personal growth within a diverse, global society, are fundamental to membership in this University community. Civic engagement is strongly encouraged. Admissions decisions will not be affected by participation in or disciplinary action associated with peaceful, meaningful protest. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy