Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of Student Services Menu Main Nav Office of Student Services Office of Student Services Academic Calendar Back Back Close About Overview Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Registrar Overview Academic Calendar 2022–2023 Academic Calendar 2023–2024 Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Summer 2022 Registration Spring 2023 Registration Summer 2023 Registration Fall 2023 Registration Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Financial Aid Overview Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Wellness Financial Aid Forms Contact Related Links Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate & Law Cost of Attendance Billing & Student Accounts Overview Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Student Employment Overview Job Listings 21–22 Academic Year On-Campus 21–22 Academic Year Off-Campus FWS 2022 Summer On-Campus 2022 Summer Off-Campus FWS Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Close Academic Calendar Directory A to Z Listing Search Student Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Student Employment Finding a Job Off Campus Student Employment Job Listings Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Finding a Job Off Campus Students who have been awarded Federal Work-Study (FWS) are eligible to work off campus through the Off-Campus Federal Work-Study Program by a federal, state, or local public agency, or by a private nonprofit organization. Students working through this Program are employees of Boston College and will be paid directly by the University. Students with available FWS funds and/or qualifying organizations interested in participating in this Program should refer to Information for Employers for more information and process for approval. This is not a cost-free program for the agency. Local public agencies including city or county governmental offices, public schools, community-owned hospitals, public libraries, community centers as well as private, nonprofit organizations can be considered for a work-study contract with Boston College. Organizations recognized as nonprofit under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code qualify for Work-Study eligibility. Examples of private nonprofit organizations include colleges and universities, hospitals, day care centers, halfway houses, crisis centers, and summer camps. Work for sectarian (religious) organizations is permitted, but the work must be in the public interest and cannot in any way support sectarian ends. Other Off-Campus Jobs Any student hired for any other off-campus employer not participating in our Off-Campus FWS Program is an employee of that off-campus employer, and payment is a matter between the student and that employer. Boston College is committed to providing information in a manner that is accessible to all. If you are in need of a printed copy of the material presented on this web page, please contact the Office of Student Services. Academic Year Off-Campus Federal Work-Study Summer Off-Campus Federal Work-Study Other Off-Campus Jobs Print Open All Close All Finding a Job The off-campus Federal Work-Study (FWS) job postings on our website are from agencies that have contracted with our office under our Off-Campus FWS Program for anytime during the academic year (fall and/or spring semesters). You can review those off-campus Federal Work-Study job listings, contact the employer directly to schedule interviews, and bring your paper Off-Campus FWS Hire/Rehire Form with you to the interview. Please note that you must be awarded Academic Year (fall/spring) Federal Work-Study funds as part of your financial aid award package in order to work for an agency through our Off-Campus FWS Program. Work-Study Hire/Rehire Form The completed and signed Hire/Rehire Form is to be sent or delivered to our office for review and approval before the student may begin to work there through this program. That form may be dropped off at our office (Lyons Hall 103) or mailed. Our mailing address is: Boston College Office of Student Services Lyons Hall Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 When your Hire/Rehire Form has been reviewed and approved by our office, a confirmation letter will be sent to the agency, and you will also be sent a copy of that confirmation letter. Note that your Hire/Rehire Form will be not be reviewed unless the agency has contracted with our School under our Off-Campus FWS Program for the summer period. Working for an Employer Not Listed on this Website? If there is a non-profit community service or public interest (non-profit or government) agency that you would like to work at during the summer that isn't listed on our website, please contact our office to request a contract package to be mailed to that agency. The agency will need to complete and sign the package and return it to this office for review and approval before you begin working. Also, the job title and hourly wage must agree with our "Student Job Classifications and Wage Structure," which is included in that contract package, since you are considered an employee of Boston College. This is not a cost-free program for that agency; it will be required to pay a percentage of your Federal Work-Study earnings, with payment sent directly to Boston College. The agency must contract, thereby agreeing to participate in this program; otherwise, any employment is not sanctioned through this program, and any wages owed is a matter between you and that agency. Employment Period The academic year employment period begins Sunday, August 29, 2021 and ends Saturday, May 21, 2022. You may not begin working through this Program prior to August 29. Hours and Job Limits Students may work a maximum of 20 hours per week during the academic year. Students may work more than 20 hours per week (but less than 30 hours) between semesters and during spring break. These weekly hour limits apply even if you are working more than one job for Boston College at any time during the academic year. The Office of Student Services, as well as Human Resources, will be monitoring hours being worked for compliance with this new University policy. Payment You will be paid for hours worked. You will not be paid for lunch breaks, sick days, holidays, or as a result of any emergency closing. Direct Deposit is the preferred method of payment at Boston College for student employees, and is the safest and quickest method to receive payment. Please refer to our Direct Deposit Enrollment Instructions to set up direct deposit for payroll. If not paid by direct deposit is chosen, then a paper check is issued, and you (the student employee) need to pick it up at the HRSC during regular business hours. Please view our New Hires page for more information regarding the onboarding process. Reporting Your Earnings It is also your responsibility to keep an accurate record of your earnings, since you have a maximum Federal Work-Study amount that you may earn. The electronic Financial Aid Award Notification you were sent references the amount; be certain that it references Federal Work-Study as your employment award for this academic year. In addition, be aware that working two jobs for the University will deplete your Work-Study award that much sooner. Off-Campus Agency Student Time Sheets You must complete and sign your Boston College Off-Campus Agency Student Time Sheet, obtain your supervisor's signature on the time sheet, and submit it weekly. The time sheets must be received in good order at the Office of Student Services by 4:00 p.m. on Thursday of that current work week in order for you to receive a payment on Friday of the following week. When a holiday occurs, your time sheet will be due earlier the week before the holiday. Time sheets may be delivered or mailed (but not faxed) to the Office of Student Services for review and approval, and the agency will be contacted for clarification if there is a discrepancy. Our office will not be responsible for any delays by the U.S. Postal Service. Federal Work Study Program For more information regarding the Federal Work Study program, view the Work Opportunities section of Financial Aid. BC Neighborhood Center Literacy Partnership Program (BLPP) Students who have been awarded Federal Work-Study for the academic year may consider providing a valuable service as a paid Reading/Literacy Tutor working with children in schools in the Allston/Brighton area. Tutors work in classrooms with the support of teachers or in after school programs. The Boston College Neighborhood Center (BCNC) coordinates this program. For more information and to fill out an application, please visit the BCNC Literacy Partnership Program website. Commitment to Your Employer Accepting a position involves a commitment, and you have definite responsibilities to your employer. Besides performing your duties to the best of your ability, you are expected to be dependable and considerate, and you must notify your employer as early as possible if you are going to be absent, arrive late, or need to leave early, since it may be necessary to assign your duties to another employee. Also, you must act in a professional manner concerning confidentiality of University, employer, or student records. A breach of confidentiality is cause for dismissal from any employment program. A student's employment may be terminated by his or her employer if that student's work is unsatisfactory or if the student fails to comply with required policies and procedures. Furthermore, students with poor work records or fail to comply with the University’s student hours policy may forfeit their eligibility to participate in any current and future student employment programs with Boston College. Keep in mind that future employers may want to contact the University for employment-related references after you graduate. You are expected to work for the same employer throughout the academic year until your agreed-upon end date, unless informed otherwise. If you decide to voluntarily terminate your job earlier than the date agreed upon when hired, you must offer your employer two weeks' notice in order to allow that employer the opportunity to find another student employee. Print Open All Close All Finding a Job The off-campus Federal Work-Study (FWS) job postings on our website are from agencies that have contracted with our office under our Off-Campus FWS Program for this summer. You can review those off-campus Federal Work-Study job listings, contact the employer directly to schedule interviews, and bring your paper Off-Campus FWS Hire/Rehire Form with you to the interview. Please note that you must be awarded Summer Federal Work-Study funds as part of your financial aid award package in order to work for an agency through our Off-Campus FWS Program. Work-Study Hire/Rehire Form The completed and signed Hire/Rehire Form is to be sent or delivered to our office for review and approval before the student may begin to work there through this program. That form may be dropped off at our office (Lyons Hall 103) or mailed. Our mailing address is: Boston College Office of Student Services Lyons Hall Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 When your Hire/Rehire Form has been reviewed and approved by our office, a confirmation letter will be sent to the agency, and you will also be sent a copy of that confirmation letter. Note that your Hire/Rehire Form will be not be reviewed unless the agency has contracted with our School under our Off-Campus FWS Program for the summer period. Working for an Employer Not Listed on this Website? If there is a non-profit community service or public interest (non-profit or government) agency that you would like to work at during the summer that isn't listed on our website, please contact our office to request a contract package to be mailed to that agency. The agency will need to complete and sign the package and return it to this office for review and approval before you begin working. Also, the job title and hourly wage must agree with our "Student Job Classifications and Wage Structure," which is included in that contract package, since you are considered an employee of Boston College. This is not a cost-free program for that agency; it will be required to pay a percentage of your Federal Work-Study earnings, with payment sent directly to Boston College. The agency must contract, thereby agreeing to participate in this program; otherwise, any employment is not sanctioned through this program, and any wages owed is a matter between you and that agency. Employment Period The summer employment period begins Sunday, May 22, 2022 and ends Saturday, August 27, 2022. You may not begin working through this program prior to May 22. Hours and Job Limits Students may work 30 or more hours per week (to a maximum of 40 hours per week), but may not work more than 12 weeks of the summer employment period if the student averages 30 or more hours per week, even if working more than one job for Boston College. The Office of Student Services, as well as Human Resources, will be monitoring hours being worked for compliance with this new University policy. Payment You will be paid for hours worked. You will not be paid for lunch breaks, holidays, or as a result of any emergency closing. Direct Deposit is the preferred method of payment at Boston College for student employees, and is the safest and quickest method to receive payment. Please refer to our Direct Deposit Enrollment Instructions to set up direct deposit for payroll. If not paid by direct deposit is chosen, then a paper check is issued, and you (the student employee) need to pick it up at the HRSC during regular business hours. Please view our New Hires page for more information regarding the onboarding process. Reporting Your Earnings It is also your responsibility to keep an accurate record of your earnings, since you have a maximum Federal Work-Study amount that you may earn. The electronic Financial Aid Award Notification you were sent references the amount; be certain that it references Federal Work-Study as your employment award for this academic year. In addition, be aware that working two jobs for the University will deplete your Work-Study award that much sooner. Off-Campus Agency Student Time Sheets You must complete and sign your Boston College Off-Campus Agency Student Time Sheet, obtain your supervisor's signature on the time sheet, and submit it weekly. The time sheets must be received in good order at the Office of Student Services by 4:00 p.m. on Thursday of that current work week in order for you to receive a payment on Friday of the following week. When a holiday occurs, your time sheet will be due earlier the week before the holiday. Time sheets may be delivered or mailed (but not faxed) to the Office of Student Services for review and approval, and the agency will be contacted for clarification if there is a discrepancy. Our office will not be responsible for any delays by the U.S. Postal Service. Federal Work Study Program For more information regarding the Federal Work Study program, view the Work Opportunities section of Financial Aid. Commitment to Your Employer Accepting a position involves a commitment, and you have definite responsibilities to your employer. Besides performing your duties to the best of your ability, you are expected to be dependable and considerate, and you must notify your employer as early as possible if you are going to be absent, arrive late, or need to leave early, since it may be necessary to assign your duties to another employee. Also, you must act in a professional manner concerning confidentiality of University, employer, or student records. A breach of confidentiality is cause for dismissal from any employment program. A student's employment may be terminated by his or her employer if that student's work is unsatisfactory or if the student fails to comply with required policies and procedures. Furthermore, students with poor work records or fail to comply with the University’s student hours policy may forfeit their eligibility to participate in any current and future student employment programs with Boston College. Keep in mind that future employers may want to contact the University for employment-related references after you graduate. You are expected to work for the same employer throughout the summer employment period until your agreed-upon end date, unless informed otherwise. If you decide to voluntarily terminate your job earlier than the date agreed upon when hired, you must offer your employer two weeks' notice in order to allow that employer the opportunity to find another student employee. Boston College Handshake The Boston College Career Center’s Handshake career platform is where students can apply for jobs/internships in a broad range of industries and geographic locations. In addition to applying for jobs and internships, you can also make appointments to meet with the Career Center’s career coaches and access campus career events, including employer information sessions, career fairs, and workshops. More information on these job and internship listings can be found on the BC Career Center’s website. Boston College Eagle Exchange The Boston College Eagle Exchange is an official online platform that fosters connections between students and Boston College alumni around the world. Eagle Exchange will help facilitate career-related conversations between you and the BC alumni network. The platform will provide you the opportunity to seek knowledge and advice, explore career fields of interest, and build your professional network with the global BC alumni community. More information on how you can sign up for Eagle Exchange can be found on the BC Eagle Exchange website. Eagle Exchange is brought to you by the Boston College Alumni Association and the Career Center. Note: We urge you not to accept any offer until you are certain of the duties and requirements of the job, as well as the salary and hours of that job and extent of your commitment. Any student hired is an employee of that employer and not an employee of Boston College. Student Services does not refer or match students to any specific job. Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 Phone: 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 studentservices@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College