Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Overview University Facts Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Maps & Directions Locations Each Cornell-run and Cornell-partnered program is exactly where we need to be. And exactly where you want to be. Ithaca, New York Our main campus: 2,300 acres in the heart of New York State's Finger Lakes region. And only steps away from the shops, restaurants, nightlife, and activities of Ithaca. There's no end to the things you can do, accomplish, and create here. Learn More New York, New York Weill Cornell Medicine on the Upper East Side. The Cornell Tech campus on Roosevelt Island. And more than a dozen programs – most in the heart of the city in Midtown – for faculty research, student learning and public engagement. We've got this city covered. Learn More Doha, Qatar Setting new world standards in patient care at Weill Cornell Medicine's location in the center of Education City. Our partnership with nearby Sidra Medical and Research Center provides even more state-of-the-art experience. Learn More Geneva, New York Home to the cutting-edge technology and thinking that answer today's call for environmentally and economically sustainable farming practices around the world. This is Cornell AgriTech. Learn More Washington, D.C. An opportunity to couple professional work experience with any number of governmental or non-governmental agencies with courses at Cornell's Wolpe Center. And all of it in one of the most powerful cities in the world. Learn More Rome, Italy Cornell in Rome offers students a transformative experience in the disciplines of architecture design, history, and theory; visual arts; art history; urban studies; and Italian language, history, and culture. Field trips throughout Italy are an integral part of the semester. Learn More Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube