Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Physical Health Concussion What is a concussion? According to the CDC, a concussion is a type of mild traumatic brain injury that occurs upon “a bump, blow, or jolt to the head that causes the head and brain to move rapidly back and forth” against the skull. What causes concussions? A concussion can occur from any general impact to the head. Events that often result in concussions are falls, car accidents, or impact to the head in contact sports. When should I see a medical provider? Individuals should see a medical provider if they experience the following symptoms: repeated vomiting, confusion or disorientation, slurred speech, a loss of consciousness lasting more than 30 seconds, difficulty with physical coordination, seizures, sensitivity to light or noise, or sleeping problems. How are concussions treated? Concussion symptoms vary from person to person, and no two approaches to healing and caring for concussions are exactly the same. Generally, rest and reduced physical and mental workloads are recommended. Avoiding bright lights and reducing screen time (you can obtain a blue light filter for your phone and other electronic devices) are also likely to help alleviate symptoms. There is no known, prescribed cure-all for concussions; however, some find meditation and yoga helpful. You should speak with your medical provider about your symptoms and any referrals you might want to seek, and be sure to check in regularly if they persist. How long does it take to heal from a concussion? Symptoms of concussions can last anywhere from days, to weeks, to even longer. Several factors are important for recovery: adequate sleep, hydration, healthful nutrition, avoiding overexertion, abstaining from alcohol, and slowly reintegrating exercise. But, recovery times are variable and the process is not entirely linear: often individuals will experience a day in which they feel fully recovered followed by one where their symptomatology is more similar to right after their injury. It is not recommended to attempt to push through symptoms, as those that do often have longer recovery times. Also, older adults, young children, and those who have suffered concussions before have longer recovery times on average. Will I need to make adjustments to my day to day life? While it depends on the severity of the concussion, generally adjustments must be made to encourage the healing process. Most often these include avoiding bright lights and over-stimulating environments. Time away from screens such as phones, television, and computers can also be helpful. Other life adjustments that help the healing process include avoiding activities that will cause your head or neck to be jostled around. Some examples of this include going on roller coasters, mountain-biking etc. Lastly, it is important to rest. Some light exercise can be maintained, if approved by a doctor. However, like any other injury or sickness, recovery is aided by resting both physically and mentally. Can I make an appointment at Health Services? Yes. You can call 401-863-3953 or go to the Health Services website to make an appointment with a medical provider to be evaluated for a head injury. Depending on the severity of symptoms, you may then be referred to a specialist. Related Links CDC Concussion Webpage About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook