Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content Close × Close × Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Faculty Office of the Provost Resources Resources Undergraduate Admissions Office of Graduate Affairs Academic Calendar Mission and Ministry Alumni and Friends Quick Links Quick Links Seton Hall Homepage Seton Hall News University Calendar SHU Athletics Support Seton Hall Seton Hall University Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Faculty Office of the Provost Resources Resources Undergraduate Admissions Office of Graduate Affairs Academic Calendar Mission and Ministry Alumni and Friends Quick Links Quick Links Seton Hall Homepage Seton Hall News University Calendar SHU Athletics Support Seton Hall Events PirateNet Menu Seton Hall University Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Faculty Office of the Provost Resources Undergraduate Admissions Office of Graduate Affairs Academic Calendar Mission and Ministry Alumni and Friends Quick Links Seton Hall Homepage Seton Hall News University Calendar SHU Athletics Support Seton Hall Events PirateNet University Site Search Seton Hall University About Us About the College Office of the Dean Office of Graduate Studies Office of Clinical Experiences Accreditation News and Events Support the School Give Now Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificate Programs Leadership Development Take the Next Step Apply Now Explore Faculty Departments and Centers Student Organizations Scholarships A School on the Move Online graduate Education program jumps 50 points in US News rankings, reflecting growth and renewal at the College. read more The College of Education and Human Services develops the knowledge, skills, competencies and moral and ethical values necessary for outstanding performance in teaching, educational leadership, professional psychology and family therapy. We are dedicated to ensuring our professional preparation programs are based on essential knowledge, evolving technology, research findings and reflective practices. Request Information Apply Now NEWS Making a Difference Every Day Katie Smith, Ph.D., assistant professor of higher education, was the recipient of the 2022 Schreitmueller Faculty Servant Leader Award. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS NEWS Doctoral Student Contributes to National Study Li Kang, a doctoral candidate in the higher education program at the College of Education and Human Services, participated in a scholarly analysis of superintendent compensation nationwide. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS EVENT Jun 9 TESOL Grad Cert Program: Virtual Info Session Join us online for our next TESOL information session to learn more about our 15-credit pathway for NJ classroom teachers to obtain an additional K-12 NJDOE endorsement in ESL (English as a Second Language). VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS NEWS Police Graduate Studies Program recognizes leadership Robert Yaiser and Dr. David Costantino receive the Police Graduate Studies Adjunct Professor of the Year Award for their leadership and service to students and the CEHS. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS NEWS Ph.D. Candidate Named South Orange Chief of Police Ernesto Morillo, a Ph.D. candidate in Higher Education, Leadership, Management, and Policy at Seton Hall, was appointed the new chief of police for the South Orange police department. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS NEWS International Student Spotlight on Amber Huang This edition of student spotlight introduces Ms. Amber Huang, a full-time student attending classes in the ESL@SetonHall intensive English program on campus. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS what Great Minds Can Do Exploring Pathways to College Doctoral candidate, Hezal Patel, and Marianne J. Brosnan, Ph.D. '20, explore communications pathways for college students moving to 4-year programs. read more College of Education and Human Services Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9668 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top