COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search WSU Esports varsity team marks a milestone for the program May 18, 2022 — After winning the Eastern College Athletic Conference Championship, the Wichita State Varsity Esports Valorant team qualified for a direct bid to compete in the Collegiate Esports Commissioners Cup, a milestone for WSU's Esports program. Home for digital transformation rising on Innovation Campus May 6, 2022 — The steel columns and beams rising on the east edge of the Innovation Campus will soon provide a physical centerpiece for the ongoing work of digital transformation at Wichita State University. The National Institute for Research and Digital Transformation will occupy the building at 18th Street and Oliver by spring 2023. New esports director brings his vision of gaming to Wichita State March 30, 2022 - The vision for varsity esports at Wichita State encompasses much more than people gaming on Cybertron Computers and wearing a Logitech Headset. While gaming success is important, the program is also seen as way to provide extra-curricular activity and applied learning for students in disciplines across campus. Travis Yang, hired in December as WSU’s Esports director, wants to build a program that follows that direction. New signage in store for Wichita State's Innovation Campus entrance Feb. 18, 2022 — The entrance to Wichita State University’s Innovation Campus on the corner of 21st and Oliver streets is about to get a Shocker makeover with new signage and landscaping. Wichita State's University Village initiative moves to feedback stage Feb. 15, 2022 — In the next steps toward the creation of the University Village, Wichita State University is seeking public feedback and engagement on the lead proposals. Free membership at GoCreate for WSU students fosters creative campus community Jan. 24, 2022 — Further expanding its presence as a diverse creative workspace at WSU, GoCreate recently began offering free memberships to Wichita State students. WSU announces new esports director Dec. 7, 2021 — The College of Applied Studies at Wichita State University announced today that Travis Yang has been hired as the new director of varsity esports. Woolsey Hall designed to highlight collaborative spaces, active learning Sept. 13, 2021 - Student feedback helped guide the design of Frank and Kay Woolsey Hall. They asked for collaboration, and they asked for caffeine. Woolsey Hall, the new home for the W. Frank Barton School of Business, is 30 to 40 percent finished and expected to be complete in late spring 2022 and ready for summer 2022 classes. Wichita State moving forward on several construction projects Aug. 11, 2021 - People are returning to the Wichita State University campus as summer continues and the fall semester approaches. If you’re a newcomer – or feel like it’s been a while – you’ll notice construction and new businesses on campus. New bridge name promises to embrace Barton School's commitment to Wichita Aug. 2, 2021 — The marquee exterior fixture of the W. Frank Barton School of Business’ new home, Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall, has been officially named the Promise Bridge. The 300-foot-long pedestrian bridge will span a water feature south of the building. Shocker students' innovation represented at Make48 June 22, 2021 — When the Make48 invention and maker challenge comes to Wichita State University on June 24, two of the eight Wichita teams are comprised entirely of Wichita State University students. Renowned FAA airworthiness assurance center transfers to WSU's NIAR June 21, 2021 — A widely acclaimed program for aircraft inspection, maintenance and airworthiness research is landing at Wichita State University’s National Institute for Aviation Research (NIAR) after a 30-year history at Sandia National Laboratories. Courtney Calder leads WSU Esports with background in athletics, business June 9, 2021 - Wichita State’s Esports director Courtney Calder played soccer more often than video games growing up in California. Those experiences, however, helped prepare her for running the Esports program, as did her time working in sales for Apple after graduating from Northwestern University. Wichita State’s varsity program, housed in the Heskett Center, offers four teams competing in Overwatch, League of Legends, Rocket League, and Valorant. Wichita State engineering, PT students create bike for boy with cerebral palsy June 7, 2021 — Five-year-old Ford Hall has had to overcome more in his short life than most do in a lifetime. That’s because immediately after he was born, he was diagnosed with cerebral palsy. The doctors informed his mother he would probably never be able to walk. “It was that conversation with that doctor that really lit a fire in us,” said Cori Hall, Ford’s mother. Air Force partners with WSU-NIAR to tear down and inspect a high time B-1B fuselage June 7, 2021 — The Air Force Life Cycle Management Center B-1 Division is sponsoring a research project with Wichita State University’s National Institute for Aviation Research to study the effects of flight operations on aircraft structures. 1 2 3 4 5 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©