COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Electronic Thesis and Dissertation Section Menu Application for Degree Commencement Graduation Deadlines Graduate Degree Regulations Transfer Credit Graduate Plan of Study Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) Professional and Scholarly Integrity Training Graduate School Home Students are required to submit their thesis or dissertation electronically through the electronic thesis and dissertation (ETD) process. The ETD is similar to its paper predecessor; however, rather than printing a hard copy for submission to the Graduate School, the thesis or dissertation is converted to a Portable Document Format (pdf) file for electronic submission to the Graduate School in the Blackboard Learning System. No bound copies will be required from the student. Required Degree Audit Appointment All students will be required to make an appointment with the Degree Audit Specialist for: a format check of the paper copy instructions on submission of the ETD / PDF conversion access to the Graduate School ETD course in Blackboard Format Students are responsible for having their thesis / dissertation formatted as described in the “Guide to the Preparation of Theses and Dissertations” available online at no cost through the Graduate School website at wichita.edu/gradforms. The manual provides full-size sample pages. Students viewing the manual on the website are advised to print out at least the sample pages prior to preparing their document, since headings, subheadings and spacing can appear differently when viewed in printed format. Blackboard You can access Blackboard through the myWSU portal at wichita.edu/mywsu. To log into the portal, you will need your myWSU ID number and password. Cost The fee associated with submitting the ETD is $50.00, and covers the cost to process the ETD and store an archival copy with WSU University Libraries. Cataloging ETD submissions A CD copy will be given to the student, the committee chair, the student’s major department, and the university library. WSU University Libraries will catalog the electronic theses and dissertations and make them available through the Shocker Open Access Repository (SOAR), for worldwide distribution. All submissions will be accessible and viewable six months after the official degree conferral date at https://soar.wichita.edu/handle/10057/67. More information For additional information about preparing your thesis or dissertation and associated requirements, refer to the Graduate School Publication, Guide to Preparation of Theses and Dissertations. View the ETD Prep Guide 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©