Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries English Language Teaching Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs English Language Teaching Certificate (Graduate) Apply Visit Request More Info English Language Teaching Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Our Faculty English Language Teaching Certificate The English Language Teaching Certificate program in the College of Education and Human Development provides students with the skills to teach English to adult learners, international students and English language learners abroad. This program is ideal for those who want to develop a solid foundation for teaching English to non-native speakers. Through virtual reality technology, students gain unique immersive teacher training experiences. The program prepares students for the Teaching Knowledge Test designed by Cambridge Assessment English and can serve as a critical pathway to the Teaching English to Speakers of English in Other Languages MSEd. Curriculum You must complete 12 credit hours (four courses) in order to earn this certificate. Topics covered in the curriculum include English phonology, key principles of language teaching, and standards of curriculum design. View the full English Language Teaching Certificate curriculum. Delivery Method Courses can be completed online or in a hybrid format with two courses online and two courses in-person on Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia. You can enroll part- or full-time and have up to two years to complete the certificate program. Related Graduate Degrees Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) MSEd Related Graduate Certificates English as a Second Language Field Experience As part of your academic program, you will gain firsthand knowledge in classrooms through immersive field placements. Clearance Requirements Students enrolled in courses that require fieldwork or internships must submit updated child abuse, criminal and drug clearances every year. Learn more about submitting clearance requirements. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Di Liu, assistant professor of instruction, is the faculty program coordinator for the English Language Teaching Certificate (Graduate). Phone: 215-204-4885 Email: diliu@temple.edu Our Advisors A faculty program coordinator provides academic support and helps students navigate the certificate program. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-ELTC-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in English Language Teaching Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Our Faculty Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info