Skip to main content COVID-19 INFORMATION & RESOURCES Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Visit Give Apply Student Life Student Life Overview Activities & Organizations Housing & Dining Student Services Health & Recreation Traditions Veteran Services Fraternities & Sororities Academics Academics Overview Explore Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate School Distance Education Professional Development Academic Support Student Success Academic Calendar Courses, Schedules & Syllabi Schools & Colleges Architecture, Planning, & Public Affairs Business Education Engineering Honors College Liberal Arts Nursing & Health Innovation Science Social Work UTA Fort Worth Admissions Admissions Overview Apply Visit Events Parents Tuition & Scholarships Admitted Students Contact Us Research Research Overview Administrative Offices Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Innovation & Commercialization Centers & Institutes Funding Resources McNair Scholars Athletics Athletics UTAMavs.com Official Merchandise Buy Tickets Join the Maverick Club News About About Overview Fast Facts Rankings and Recognition Careers Our Alumni Facilities Administration Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Apply Search UTA Open Search Field The University of Texas at Arlington The University of Texas at Arlington It all starts here Apply for Admission Request Info MyMav New Maverick Orientation Attending UTA in the fall? Sign up for New Maverick Orientation to learn about campus resources and discover opportunities UTA has to offer. Upcoming Orientation Dates A University of Excellence Tier One 4th university in the state to receive the coveted Texas Tier One designation (Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board) #1 IN THE NATION FOR VETERANS AND THEIR FAMILIES (Military Times, 2021) R-1 Doctoral University (Very High Research Activity designation by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education) #1 in Texas for Degrees Awarded to African American Students (Diverse: Issues in Higher Education, 2021) AANAPISI Asian American Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institution (Designated in 2021 by the U.S. Department of Education) HSI Hispanic-Serving Institution (Designation by the U.S. Department of Education) Our Rankings Your success story is next Over 200,000 alumni have written their stories of achievement. Yours could be next. Previous Next Exercise Science Major - Meet Daniel A couple students told me I enhanced their orientation experience. It meant so much to me because I was able to help them become an excited Maverick! Register for Orientation Nursing Major - Meet Adriana Thanks to FLOC, I learned leadership skills and how an organization functioned. Explore Student Organizations Graduate Student - Lance Powers When I decided to go back to graduate school, I wanted to be the best student I can be and learn as much as I can from the program. Learn About our Academic Programs Men's Track & Field - Meet Arthur Being a Maverick means being a part of something bigger than yourself. More about UTA's Men's Track Biology Major - Meet Reema I love how celebrated diversity is at UTA and how no one has to worry about not seeing people that look like them. Student Resources What's Happening at UTA? Register for Fall 2022 See your advisor to register and customize a semester that will maximize your time. Freshmen and new transfer students will register at New Maverick Orientation. More Registration Information Advising Offices Welcoming UTA's New President Dr. Jennifer Cowley assumed office as UTA's 10th president on April 28, 2022. End-of-semester Message About President Cowley Blaze Forward with a New Tuition Program The Blaze Forward program makes it even easier for you to get a world-class education at UTA. This program will cover 100% of tuition and fees for undergraduate students who meet all eligibility requirements and are from families with financial incomes up to $85,000. About the Program LATEST NEWS 25 May Boa snakes, horned lizards and lasting lessons Arlington students study specimens from UTA’s world-renowned herpetological collection 27 May A Maverick esports dynasty UTA esports team wins national collegiate tournament 26 May To predict future water supply, UTA to look to the past UTA hydrology researcher examines historical water data to inform future decisions 23 May Agents of change UT Arlington researchers explore the human experience from every angle 23 May A commitment to career development New Maverick Talent Pipeline Program creates more paid internships for UTA students 19 May UTA selects Tamara L. Brown as new provost Brown to serve as chief academic officer at DFW's newest Tier One university Apply for Admission Request Info Visit Campus Give Contact Us People Directory Campus Maps Careers IT Help UTA Mobile App The University of Texas at Arlington 701 S. Nedderman Drive Arlington, TX 76019 817-272-2011 Emergency PreparednessMental Health ResourcesNondiscrimination and Title IXPrivacy and Legal NoticeAccessibilitySite PoliciesReport Sexual MisconductInstitutional ResumeUT SystemState of TexasTexas Veterans PortalStatewide SearchReport FraudCARES Act Federal Disclosures © 2022 The University of Texas at Arlington