Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Office of the Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs Main Navigation About Academic Affairs Units Academic Senate Faculty Resources Contact the Provost Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Enhancements May 20, 2022 Hello colleagues, Please find in the links here updates on the three areas we are working across Academic Affairs to create a more equitable, inclusive, and diverse community for all Titans. This work has been occurring now for two years, and you can find archived updates here. We group this under climate, professoriate, and faculty success. However, all of these elements feed each other and so are not separable. Note that the work detailed here happens across our many college and AVP portfolios and are the result of collaborations and leadership from staff, faculty, students, and administrators. Please share feedback with me so we can continue this journey towards the institution we seek to become. Best Wishes, Carolyn Thomas, Ph.D. Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs Equity Pedagogy Module Interested in learning more about equitable teaching practices? Looking for ideas to implement these practices? Want to see how others have changed their teaching? You might be interested in the Equitable Pedagogy Module , a course created by faculty for faculty and available to all faculty in Canvas. Our Efforts I. INCLUSIVE CLIMATE Creating a more inclusive climate in the classroom and our departments and college. INCLUSIVE CLIMATE EFFORTS II. DIVERSE PROFESSORIATE Creating and cultivating an increasingly diverse professoriate to better reflect the communities of our students and push the research boundaries of academic fields. DIVERSE PROFESSORIATE EFFORTS III. FACULTY SUCCESS Faculty success, in part, requires that Academic Affairs policies and practices are fair, equitable and reward the activities that make our students successful and enable our communities in our region to thrive. FACULTY SUCCESS EFFORTS This site is maintained by Division of Academic Affairs. Last Published 5/20/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact academicaffairs@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.