Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Programs Lynch School of Education and Human Development Undergraduate Programs Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Lynch School of Education and Human Development The Lynch School of Education and Human Development (LSEHD) offers undergraduate and graduate programs in education, transformative studies, and applied psychology and human development. The mission of the Lynch School of Education and Human Development is to improve the human condition through improved applied practice and education. It pursues this goal through excellence and ethics in teaching, research, and service. It prepares undergraduate and graduate students to serve diverse populations in a variety of professional roles including as teachers, administrators, human service providers, psychologists, researchers, policy analysts, educational consultants, training and knowledge-transfer experts, professional development providers, executive coaches, instructional designers, and other roles in business human capital and talent development, government, NGOs, foundations, and cultural organizations. Through research, LSEHD seeks to advance knowledge in its respective fields, inform policy, and improve practice. Teachers, psychologists, scholars, and learners in LSEHD engage in collaborative school and community improvement efforts locally, nationally, and internationally. What unites the diverse work conducted within the Lynch School of Education and Human Development is the underlying aspiration to enhance the human condition, to expand the human imagination, and to make the world more just. The Lynch School of Education and Human Development is named in honor of Carolyn A. and Peter S. Lynch. Peter Lynch, a Boston College graduate, is one of the country’s best-known financial investors. APSY Courses EDUC Courses ELHE Courses ERAL Courses LREN Courses MESA Courses Lynch School Faculty Lynch School Website Undergraduate Programs Satisfactory Academic Progress Information for First Year Students Practicum Experiences Leading to Endorsement for Teacher Licensure Majors in Education Major in Transformative Educational Studies Major in Applied Psychology and Human Development Second Majors and Interdisciplinary Majors for Lynch School Students Lynch School Majors Minors or Concentrations for Lynch School Students Minors in LSEHD for Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, Carroll School of Management, and Connell School of Nursing Students Graduation Fifth Year and Early Admit Programs Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate students in LSEHD may choose to major in Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Transformative Educational Studies, or Applied Psychology and Human Development. All students entering LSEHD undergraduate programs follow a program of study in selected majors and minors and complete the Boston College Common Core requirements and electives needed to fulfill degree requirements. Elementary Education Elementary Education majors should enroll in EDUC1030 Child Growth and Development in the fall of their first year. This course will also satisfy one BC Core Social Science requirement. In the spring of the first year, students should enroll in EDUC1031 Family, School, and Society. This course will satisfy one BC Core Social Science and the Cultural Diversity requirement. During the first year, Elementary Education students may also elect to begin the sequence for their second major. All Elementary Education majors must complete a second major either in a content area in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, Transformative Educational Studies, Applied Psychology and Human Development, or in one of three interdisciplinary majors offered through the Lynch School. Interdisciplinary majors include American Heritages, Mathematics and Computer Science, and Perspectives on Spanish America. Secondary Education Secondary Education students should enroll in either EDUC1050 The Educational Conversation (Philosophy II, Core) or EDUC1030 Child Growth and Development (Social Science Core) in the fall of their first year. In the spring of the first year, students should enroll in EDUC1051 Reimagining School and Society (Social Science and Cultural Diversity) or EDUC1031 Family, School, and Society (Social Science and Cultural Diversity). Secondary Education majors must also major in a state-approved licensure area. These areas include Biology, Chemistry, Environmental Geoscience, Physics, English, History, Mathematics, French, and Hispanic Studies. Students may also elect to begin the sequence for the desired second major during the first year. In particular, students declaring a major in Mathematics, the Sciences, or Foreign Language should strongly consider beginning those majors in the first year. All elementary and secondary education majors complete three pre-practicum experiences (1 day/week for 10 weeks) and one full practicum experience (5 days/week for 14 weeks) in a variety of classrooms where they mediate theory and practice to develop and provide instruction that enhances the developmental outcomes of all individuals. All Elementary and Secondary Education programs lead to endorsement towards an Initial Licensure in the state of Massachusetts. These programs may change in response to state licensure regulations. All students seeking licensure in Massachusetts must pass all the appropriate Massachusetts Tests for Educator Licensure (MTEL), regardless of which state students wish to teach in. Graduates from Elementary and Secondary Education programs attain positions in public, private, parochial, and charter schools, other education-related fields, and areas that require strong liberal arts, subject matter, and pedagogical preparation and the ability to collaborate with others. Transformative Educational Studies The Transformative Educational Studies Major is intended for students who wish to study the fundamental educational questions arising during this moment of social and educational transformation and contribute to improving the quality of human experience and to making society more just. The major is designed for students who are interested in careers in education such as: policy analysis; educational consulting; training and knowledge-transfer programs; professional development; executive coaching; instructional design, and other roles in government, NGOs, foundations, and cultural organizations, as well as classroom teaching, but who either do not need endorsement towards licensure or wish to defer that aspect to a Fifth Year or Master’s program. Transformative Educational Studies students should enroll in EDUC1050 The Educational Conversation in the fall of the first year. This course will also satisfy the Philosophy II BC Core requirement. In the spring, students should enroll in EDUC1051 Reimagining School and Society. This course will satisfy one Social Science and the Cultural Diversity requirement. This major does not require a second major or minor, but students may elect to begin the sequence for a second major or for minor(s) at any point where there is sufficient time to complete the program of study for the second major or minor(s). Applied Psychology and Human Development The Applied Psychology and Human Development major prepares students for work in human, social, and community services and/or for graduate study in counseling, human development, educational psychology, organizational studies, higher education, and related fields. Coursework in this major curriculum offers a theoretical base in developmental and counseling psychology with a focus on understanding psychological processes in a variety of contexts. Students in Applied Psychology and Human Development enroll in a 36-credit major, with a required applied psychology practicum experience, and foci in a choice of four areas: human services and health science; organization studies and human capital; policy, advocacy, and community change; and science of learning. Students are not required to declare a minor or second major; however, students are encouraged to consider the many minor and major options available in LSEHD and across Boston College. In addition, there are a number of Fifth-Year Programs available for academically superior students through which the bachelor's and the master's degrees may be earned in five years. Please refer to the section following the descriptions of majors in the Lynch School of Education and Human Development for more information about these programs. Satisfactory Academic Progress Lynch School of Education and Human Development students who are Elementary or Secondary Education majors must successfully complete 120 credits which must include the Core curriculum, the education major, and an appropriate second major. Students who are majoring in Transformative Educational Studies or Applied Psychology and Human Development must also successfully complete 120 credits, which must include the BC Core curriculum. To continue enrollment in a full-time program of study, a student must maintain a cumulative grade point average of at least 1.667, as the minimum standard of scholarship and must not fall more than 6 credits behind the total number of credits a student of his/her status is expected to have completed (Elementary and Secondary Education majors usually carry 15–17 credits each semester during the first three years and 30 credits during the senior year). For example, a first semester sophomore student must have completed at least 30–32 credits during the freshman year. Any student who is permitted by the LSEHD Dean of Undergraduate Programs and Students to continue enrollment in a full-time undergraduate program is considered to be in good standing. Failure to maintain good standing either through a low cumulative grade point average or by incurring excessive deficiencies including failures, withdrawals, or unapproved underloads will result in placement on academic probation, possible withdrawal or dismissal, as determined by Dean of Undergraduate Programs and Students in consultation with Lynch Academic Standards Committee. A student on probation may return to good standing by approved methods, e.g., make-up of credits via approved summer schoolwork, raising GPA to acceptable standards, etc. (Students may make up no more than 12 credits in summer study.) A student who incurs additional failures or withdrawals, or carries an unapproved underload while on probation, may be required to withdraw from the institution at the time of the next review. Information for First Year Students Although students may satisfy BC Core requirements (42 credits) during any of their four undergraduate years, they are advised to complete most or, if possible, all BC Core requirements within the first two years. The remaining 78 credits (minimum) are to be fulfilled by courses required in the major(s), minor(s), and elective choices. All first-semester, first-year students should select ENGL1010 First Year Writing Seminar or a Core Literature course, EDUC1050 The Educational Conversation or EDUC/APSY1030 Child Growth and Development, ERAL1100 First Year Experience, Reflection, and Action (ERA) Program, and the course(s) designated by your major department. (Students who place out of BC Core courses in advance will take different courses selected in collaboration with an advisor.) Major requirements are listed in the sections that follow. Students who have not declared a major, and are listed as “Undeclared,” follow the course requirements for the Transformative Educational Studies or the Applied Psychology and Human Development majors. The ERAL1100 First Year Experience, Reflection, and Action Program Seminar (First Year ERA), a 3-credit course (1 credit first semester and 2 credits second semester), is a requirement for all LSEHD students and is taken as a sixth course during first and second semesters, over the full first year. Students in LSEHD must elect one of four majors: Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Transformative Educational Studies, or Applied Psychology and Human Development. As pre-professional majors, both Elementary and Secondary Education majors require an appropriate second major, successful completion of 120 credits, including the Boston College Core curriculum. Transformative Educational Studies and Applied Psychology and Human Development majors must complete the major, successful completion of 120 credits, including the Boston College Core curriculum. Students in these majors may elect a second major or minor(s) from a wide variety of options in LSEHD and across Boston College. The University Core Curriculum (BC Core) offers an essential liberal arts foundation that grounds and informs most of the coursework you will explore during your time at Boston College. Although some students complete much of the BC Core by the end of sophomore year, we suggest that students consider BC Core course options carefully. The interdisciplinary Complex Problems and Enduring Questions Core courses are available to first-year students only, and combine research, service, critical reflection, and off-site experiences in an engaging, nontraditional manner. LSEHD students who enroll in one of the Complex Problems or Enduring Questions Core courses should use caution in electing Core courses that may also be satisfied by the major requirements. The Associate Dean of Undergraduate Programs and Students, Associate Director, or Assistant Director of the Office of Undergraduate Programs must approve a program of study in the declared LSEHD major before the end of sophomore year. Students seeking a major leading to endorsement towards teacher licensure must complete and submit a Declaration of Major form to the LSEHD Office of Undergraduate Programs. This office reviews applications and accepts qualified applicants prior to the end of the sophomore year. Early application to the program is encouraged. Transformative Educational Studies and Applied Psychology and Human Development majors need to complete a Declaration of Major form with the LSEHD Office of Undergraduate Programs. The remaining courses required for graduation include additional major courses, minor courses, and electives. Practicum Experiences Leading to Endorsement for Teacher Licensure Endorsement towards the license is a collaborative effort between the teacher candidate, the Office of Field Placement and Outreach, Program Supervisor, and the Supervising Practitioner. The Office of Field Placement and Partnership Outreach (Campion 102) approves and arranges placements for pre-practica and full-practica leading to endorsement towards licensure only for eligible students enrolled in programs in LSEHD. Placement for full practicum also requires prospective teacher candidates to complete a successful interview with the Principal/Headmaster and/or potential Supervising Practitioner from the school in which they plan to fulfill this requirement. The Office of Field Placement and Outreach evaluates each placement to ensure that it meets the requirements for endorsement towards licensure by the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. The Office of Field Placement and Outreach, for appropriate reasons, may choose not to approve a teacher candidate for the practicum. All teacher candidates seeking licensure in Massachusetts must pass the appropriate Massachusetts Tests for Educator Licensure (MTEL) regardless of which state(s) students wish to teach in upon graduation. Pre-practica and full practica are essential components and experiences of the teacher preparation curriculum in LSEHD. Teacher candidates must complete three semesters of pre-practicum placements (1 day/week/10 days) before they enter a full-time practicum placement in Elementary and Secondary Education classrooms. A full description of policies may be found in the Practicum Handbook available in the Office of Field Placement and Partnership Outreach (Campion 102). A full practicum (student teaching) is a full-time five-days-per-week experience that occurs for a minimum of 14 weeks during the senior year. In the Lynch School, a full practicum must meet the teaching performance standards required by the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. Teacher candidates must demonstrate competence according to the standards outlined in the Boston College Candidate Assessment of Performance (BC-CAP). The semester prior to completing a field placement, students must formally apply and participate in an interview in the Office of Field Placement and Partnership Outreach before securing a field assignment. Subject to eligibility, teacher candidates submit an online application for pre-practicum and practicum experiences. Online applications are available at the Student Teaching page. All students seeking endorsement towards teacher licensure must complete the full practicum. A cumulative grade point average of 2.5 and successful completion of all major courses are required prior to student teaching for all students in the Elementary program. Students in Secondary Education must complete all major courses in Secondary Education and 4/5 of Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences courses prior to student teaching. No incomplete grades may be outstanding, and a minimum of 87 credits must have been completed before placement is approved. A full description of policies may be found in the Practicum Handbook available in the Office of Field Placement and Partnership Outreach in Campion 102. All students will be screened for eligibility, and any who fail to meet the standards (academic, health, professional) will be counseled into courses that will complete an appropriate degree program from Boston College. These students will not be recommended for endorsement for teacher licensure and will not receive the BC Endorsement (a recommendation for licensure). The Commonwealth of Massachusetts issues teacher licenses, not the endorsing university. Therefore, students who earn the BC Endorsement submit all licensing documentation directly to the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. Students will not be allowed to overload courses while student teaching. If, for any reason, a student is unable to complete the full practicum, an extended practicum (additional time in the field and/or semester) will be required by arrangement of the Assistant Dean of Field Placement and Outreach. Application deadlines for all pre-practica are May 1 for fall placements and December 1 for spring placements. Application deadlines for all full-practica are March 15 for fall placements and October 15 for spring placements. The Office of Field Placement and Partnership Outreach will not be able to arrange assignments for late applicants. Applications are submitted online at the Student Teaching page. The school sites utilized for pre-practica and full-practica are located in Boston and neighboring communities. Teacher candidates are responsible for their own transportation to and from these facilities. Applied Psychology and Human Development Field Practicum Applied Psychology and Human Development students should visit the Applied Psychology and Human Development page for information on practicum experiences for this major and register for APSY2152 in the semester during which they will complete their field practicum experience. Students in the Class of 2023 and beyond may register for a practicum no sooner than second semester of sophomore year, preferably junior or senior year, or after having successfully completed a minimum of twelve (12) credits of APSY courses. International and Special Practicum Placement Field Experiences Lynch School students may participate in the International Programs described in the University Policies and Procedures section of this catalog. The Lynch School's International and Special Practicum Placement Program offer opportunities for undergraduate coursework in a variety of foreign countries for pre- and full-practicum placements. International settings include classrooms in such countries as Switzerland, Ireland, England, France, Italy, Germany, Spain, and Mexico. For information regarding programs and requirements, contact the Office of Practicum Partnerships and Professional Development in Campion 102. Majors in Education The undergraduate teacher education majors in LSEHD are intended to meet the requirements for endorsement towards Initial Licensure as a teacher of the Massachusetts Department of Education. The Lynch School of Education and Human Development accreditation process and the Interstate Licensure Compact (ICC) facilitate licensure in other states. Licensure requirements are set by each state, however, and are subject to change. Students seeking licensure in Massachusetts must pass all appropriate tests of the Massachusetts Tests for Educator Licensure. All students must consult with the Office of Practicum Partnerships and Professional Development to review the most recent licensure requirements of Massachusetts and other states. The Lynch School offers several minors and one concentration for Education majors—Middle School Mathematics Teaching, Leadership in Higher Education and Community Settings, and a Special Education Concentration. The Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education is mandating that all teacher candidates complete a specific bilingual course. Please consult the Chair of Teacher Education, Special Education, and Curriculum and Instruction or the Associate Dean of Undergraduates at LSEHD for the most current course information. The concentration in Special Education is designed to prepare students to work with a diverse group of special needs learners. In light of a growing national movement for further inclusion of special needs students in regular classrooms, teachers must be able to accommodate special needs students in their classrooms. All education students are strongly urged to consider this important concentration. Detailed information on the concentration in Special Education can be found in the minors section of the Lynch School catalog and on the Lynch School website. The minor in Middle School Mathematics Teaching is available to Elementary Education majors with a Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Mathematics major or Mathematics/Computer Science interdisciplinary major, or to Secondary Education majors with a Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Mathematics major. Teachers of middle school mathematics are in great need in the United States, and all eligible Lynch School students should investigate this option. For more information on the minor in Middle School Mathematics Teaching, consult the minors section of the Lynch School catalog and the Lynch School website. Print Open All Close All Major in Elementary Education Major in Elementary Education The major in Elementary Education prepares students for teaching children without disabilities and children with mild disabilities in regular classrooms, grades 1–6. The major requirements for the elementary program include foundation and professional courses. Foundation courses focus on building understanding in areas such as child growth, learning, pedagogy, and development from diverse social, cultural, and historical perspectives. Professional courses integrate theoretical and pedagogical knowledge of the subject matter of the elementary classroom that includes reading, language, literature, mathematics, science, and social studies, informed by a pupil-centered perspective. In addition to the mastery of program content, students are instructed in learning theories, instructional strategies and models, curriculum and school organizational practices, educational technology, inquiry, and effective assessment procedures and instruments. Students also develop competencies in working with diverse learners including English language learners. Instruction enables teacher candidates to effectively integrate children with disabilities into regular classrooms. Teacher candidates have opportunities to engage in problem-solving and reflective practice, work with parents and communities, and apply knowledge to research projects. The pre-practicum component begins at the sophomore level and culminates in full-time senior level practicum. Courses and practica are carefully linked. The learning outcomes for Elementary Education majors include: Outcome 1: The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students by providing high-quality and coherent instruction, designing and administering authentic and meaningful student assessments, analyzing the student performance and growth data, using the data to improve instruction, providing students with constructive feedback on an ongoing basis, and continuously refining learning objectives. Outcome 2: The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students through instructional practices that establish high expectations, create a safe and effective classroom environment, and demonstrate cultural proficiency. Outcome 3: The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students through ethical, culturally proficient, skilled, and collaborative practice. Outcome 4: The teacher candidate will demonstrate an inquiry stance by collecting and reporting data on pupil outcomes for the purpose of assessing, teaching, and modifying instructional practice. Outcome 5: The teacher candidate will identify policies and practices that contribute to systemic inequities in education, be aware of how his or her own background experiences are influenced by these systems, and recognize a professional responsibility to promote and practice principles of social justice teaching. A second major, either interdisciplinary or in a subject discipline in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences or Applied Psychology and Human Development in the Lynch School, is required. Students must consult with their program advisors as to the selection and requirements for the major. Major in Secondary Education Major in Secondary Education The major in Secondary Education prepares students for teaching in secondary schools, grades 8–12 in most subjects and grades 5–12 for English and History. The major in Secondary Education is ideal for those students interested in high school teaching, who want to achieve an in-depth major in a discipline, and who want to apply elective courses to enhance the major and professional course work. Students may prepare to teach in the following disciplines: biology, chemistry, earth science, physics, English, history, mathematics, Spanish, and French. Requirements for the secondary major include courses in adolescent development; theory and instruction in teaching diverse populations and meeting the special needs of children; teaching reading, writing, and specific subject methods courses; inquiry; and classroom assessment. The program also includes three pre-practicum experiences beginning sophomore year and culminating in a full practicum in the senior year. Learning outcomes for Secondary Education majors include: Outcome 1: The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students by providing high-quality and coherent instruction, designing and administering authentic and meaningful student assessments, analyzing student performance and growth data, using this data to improve instruction, providing students with constructive feedback on an on-going basis, and continuously refining learning objectives. Outcome 2: The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students through instructional practices that establish high expectations, create a safe and effective classroom environment, and demonstrate cultural proficiency. Outcome 3: The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students through effective partnerships with families, caregivers, community members, and organizations. Outcome 4: The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students through ethical, culturally proficient, skilled, and collaborative practice. Outcome 5: The teacher candidate will promote an inquiry stance of critical reflection about personal practice through individual and collaborative inquiry in service of improving pupil academic, emotional, and social learning. Middle School Licensure Middle School Licensure Teacher candidates seeking endorsement towards licensure to teach at the middle school level should consult the Office of Field Placement and Partnership Outreach. Major in Transformative Educational Studies A degree in Transformative Educational Studies from Boston College is one of a kind. Students study the fundamental educational questions arising during this moment of social and educational transformation and learn how to reflect on the direction and purposes of their own education. Students learn how to make authentic contributions to improve the quality of human experience and to make society more just. The Transformative Educational Studies program features coursework that covers leading theories and strategies in Curriculum, Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, Global Perspectives, and Formative Education. The major is designed for students who are interested in careers in education, broadly understood, who wish to pursue careers in educational equity, curriculum development, policy analysis, education law, design of learning spaces, educational technology, higher education, international development work, educational journalism, and non-profit work, as well as, classroom teaching, but who either do not need endorsement towards licensure or wish to defer that aspect to a Fifth Year or Master’s program. Transformative Educational Studies students should enroll in EDUC1050 The Educational Conversation in the fall of the first year. This course will also satisfy the Philosophy II BC Core requirement. In the spring, students should enroll in EDUC1051 Reimagining School and Society. This course will satisfy one Social Science and the Cultural Diversity requirement. This major does not require a second major or minor, but students may elect to begin the sequence for a second major or for minor(s) at any point where there is sufficient time to complete the program of study for the second major or minor(s). In this major, students focus on: What does it mean to be an educated person? Is schooling primarily a force for social reproduction or social change? How will education evolve in light of paradigmatic shifts in the nature of technology and media, literacy, and work? What type of learning leads to personal and social transformation? How will education respond to contemporary social, environmental, and health crises? What does it mean to be an educator? How to serve diverse and increasingly globalized student populations? This major also provides opportunities for students to pursue their own interests through a variety of elective courses. While Transformative Educational Studies (TES) majors are not required to have a second major or minor, many TES majors do declare and complete second majors and minors. The minimum number of credits acceptable for most minors is 18, which may include applicable BC Core courses. The concentration in Special Education, however, requires only 12 credits. The minor in Management and Leadership, offered in collaboration with the Carroll School of Management, is another option for students planning to work in industry. The Lynch School of Education and Human Development also offers a number of specialized interdisciplinary minors including: Research, Evaluation and Measurement; Restorative and Transformational Justice; Immigration, Education and Humanitarian Studies; Communication; Cyberstrategy and Design; Design-Thinking and Innovation; Education Theatre; Leadership in Higher Education and Community Settings. Approved areas of study for majors and minors are listed under the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, the Carroll School of Management (CSOM minors only), and the Lynch School of Education and Human Development for LSEHD’s interdisciplinary majors, second majors, and specialized interdisciplinary minors. Please consult the Chair of the Teaching, Curriculum and Society (TCS) Department or the LSEHD Associate Dean of Undergraduate Programs and Students Office (Campion 104) for the most current course information. Major in Applied Psychology and Human Development The major in Applied Psychology and Human Development consists of course offerings in developmental psychology, personality theories, educational psychology, and related fields. It provides a basic foundation for careers in social service and community settings or for graduate study in many fields of psychology, including counseling, developmental or educational psychology, organizational studies, business, and social work. This major prepares students for entry-level employment as support personnel in offices of senior professional psychologists and counselors and in settings such as child/adult residential or day care facilities and alternative educational, community, or business settings. A twelve course (36-credit) major is required for students. The Applied Psychology and Human Development major requires six specified courses and six additional courses selected from across the following areas: Human Services and Health Science; Organization Studies and Human Capital; Policy, Advocacy, and Community Change; and the Science of Learning. Learning outcomes for Applied Psychology and Human Development majors include: Outcome 1: Understand the processes of human development and learning from infancy into late adolescence or the transition to adulthood. Outcome 2: Understand how social and cultural contexts shape developmental and educational processes. Outcome 3: Understand how contemporary social problems affect children, families, and communities. Outcome 4: Use foundational theories of applied psychology and human development to analyze educational and other real-world settings. Outcome 5: Articulate a researchable theoretical argument and apply appropriate research techniques to empirical analysis. Outcome 6: Articulate their personal core values and beliefs, how these are informed by critical engagement with theoretical and empirical knowledge in applied psychology and human development, and how these inform their relationships with their families and communities. Outcome 7: Develop a specialized understanding of 1 of 3 areas: Human Services: Basic knowledge of psychosocial challenges to normal development and of a range of individual and community-level strategies to prevent mental illness and enhance psychosocial well-being and mental health. Organizational Studies—Human Resources: Basic knowledge of organizational behavior theories, their applications in human resource management, and the contributions of applied psychology in these contexts. Community, Advocacy and Social Policy: Basic knowledge of theories of community psychology and the applications of psychological knowledge to advocacy and social policy for and with children, youth and their families, and communities. The Applied Psychology and Human Development major does not provide for endorsement towards state licensure in psychology nor as a classroom teacher. APHD students are not required to declare a minor or major; however, they are encouraged to consider the additional minors or majors that are available. The minimum number of credits acceptable for most minors is 18, which may include applicable BC major and BC Core courses. LSEHD offers a number of specialized interdisciplinary minors as mentioned before: Research, Evaluation, and Measurement; Restorative and Transformational Justice; Immigration, Education, and Humanitarian Studies; Communication; Cyberstrategy and Design; Design-Thinking and Innovation; Education Theatre; and Leadership in Higher Education and Community Settings. Approved areas of study for majors and minors are listed under the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences (MCAS), the Carroll School of Management (CSOM minors only), and the Lynch School of Education and Human Development (LSEHD) for interdisciplinary majors and specialized interdisciplinary minors. Additional detailed information for Applied Psychology and Human Development majors is available on Applied Psychology and Human Development page. There is also APSY field practicum courses, supporting fields of study, and study abroad opportunities, as well as information about future career choices listed. Students who are arranging the Applied Psychology and Human Development Practicum should seek information in Campion Hall 102. Second Majors and Interdisciplinary Majors for Lynch School Students All students in LSEHD pursuing an Education major leading to endorsement for teaching licensure are required to complete a second major in the Lynch School of Education and Human Development, or in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, or an interdisciplinary major as outlined below. Elementary Education majors may declare Transformative Educational Studies, an Interdisciplinary Major, or Applied Psychology and Human Development as their second major. Acceptable interdisciplinary majors and minors are listed below. Transformative Educational Studies or Applied Psychology and Human Development students are not required to declare a second major or minor but are encouraged to do so. Lynch School Majors Interdisciplinary Majors Interdisciplinary majors are based in two or more Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences disciplines that are relevant to teaching in elementary school settings. Each of these majors is available to students in LSEHD pursuing Elementary Education, Transformative Educational Studies, and Applied Psychology and Human Development. Students should consult their advisors regarding the specific courses required for these interdisciplinary majors. Note: Secondary Education students cannot receive endorsement towards teaching licensure in any of these interdisciplinary major areas. Secondary endorsement for licensure requires a Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences second major in one of the specific subject disciplines listed under the description of Secondary Education requirements. Transformative Educational Studies and Applied Psychology and Human Development majors may choose a second LSEHD major or one of the LSEHD interdisciplinary majors listed below or a Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences major. American Heritages Recommended for students who are interested in the American heritage from literary and historical perspectives. Two tracks are available for students pursuing this major: a cultural track with emphasis in the literary perspective, and a social science track for students interested in historical and sociological perspectives. Mathematics/Computer Science This major is recommended for students who have had four years of high school mathematics and wish to specialize in the area of mathematics and computer science but who are not interested in the traditional Mathematics major because of their intended career objective as elementary, early childhood, or special needs educators. Many students who complete this interdisciplinary major in conjunction with Applied Psychology and Human Development or Elementary Education go on to acquire licensure to teach mathematics at the secondary level by fulfilling master’s degree requirements in Secondary Education through the Fifth Year Program. Perspectives on Spanish America Recommended for students who may have had at least two years of high school Spanish and wish to develop Spanish language skills, this minor is to be coupled with a background in the historical, sociological, and literary traditions of Hispanic cultures. Minors or Concentrations for Lynch School Students A minor is most often an interdisciplinary link to other important fields. It connects students to another discipline or disciplines and changes and expands how they think about subjects, topics, fields of learning and practice, but also expands how they think about life, people, working with others and the importance of interconnectivity. The impetus for new minors across subjects is in Boston College’s Strategic Plan. The first of the plan’s strategic directives is to foster a culture of learning that “promotes opportunities for students to integrate traditional liberal arts disciplines with professional preparation and vocational discernment.” Lynch minors have students’ interest in mind and provide key opportunities for students to learn new concepts and subjects, as well as interdisciplinary expertise and skills. Lynch minors not only offer courses in interesting academic areas, more so ever than in the past, but they also offer traditional department related minors. Below are specialized minors for LSEHD students. Please consult the Office of Undergraduate Programs (Campion 104) for the most current information and/or to declare the following minors specifically for LSEHD students. Cyberstrategy and Design Minor The minor is designed to advance understanding of the intersections of cybersecurity and human behavior. Students will explore introductory and mastery level coursework, select electives from different departments, and engage in applied action projects and special topics research specially designated each year. Students successfully completing this minor with the appropriate 3.0 GPA also have the opportunity of accelerated entry into the Master of Science in Cybersecurity degree offered in another graduate program of Boston College. Design-Thinking and Innovation Minor The minor is designed to advance understanding of Design-Thinking as an important set of tools for social impact and human-centered problem solving for our world. Students will explore introductory and mastery Design-Thinking coursework, select electives from different schools and departments, and engage in social impact action/field-based projects specially designated each year. Immigration, Education, and Humanitarian Studies Minor The Immigration, Education, and Humanitarian Studies minor is designed to advance understanding of immigration and related educational and humanitarian topics. Students will explore introductory and mastery level coursework, select electives from both LSEHD and different Boston College schools and departments, and engage in applied action projects and special topics research specially designated each year. Leadership in Higher Education and Community Settings Minor This 18-credit minor is designed for students who may have an interest in institutions of higher education, in local and international non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and/or in community-based organizations and programs. Middle School Mathematics Teaching Minor A minor in Middle School Mathematics Teaching is available to undergraduates who are either: Elementary Education majors (with an MCAS Mathematics major or a Mathematics/Computer Science Interdisciplinary major) or Secondary Education majors (with an MCAS Mathematics major). While the minor does not lead directly to middle school mathematics certification at Boston College (we do not offer middle school certification), it does fulfill the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics requirements for middle school teachers of mathematics. With this minor, acquiring middle school mathematics certification in Massachusetts should not be difficult. Research, Evaluation, and Measurement Minor The Research, Evaluation, and Measurement minor is designed to advance understanding research, evaluation, and measurement tools and practices. Students will explore topics as they relate to education, applied psychology, and human development. Students successfully completing this minor with the appropriate 3.0 GPA also have the opportunity of accelerated entry into the master’s in Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics and Assessment degree offered at the LSEHD graduate school. Restorative and Transformational Justice Minor The minor is designed to advance understanding of Restorative and Transformational Justice as a critically important tool. Students will explore Restorative and Transformational Justice topics as they relate to Transformative Education, Applied Psychology, and Human Development. Special Education Concentration The Special Education Concentration is available to Lynch School of Education and Human Development students only. This includes students majoring in Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Transformative Educational Studies, and Applied Psychology and Human Development who have an interest in special needs education. Teaching English Language Learners (TELL) Certificate The Lynch School of Education at Boston College offers a formal Boston College approved certificate program in Teaching English Language Learners (TELL). Candidates should be working towards endorsement for licensure in an education field (early childhood, elementary, secondary, reading, etc.). This Boston College program is designed to prepare mainstream teachers to work with bilingual learners/English Language Learners in their mainstream classroom settings. The Boston College approved (TELL) certificate requires two courses and completion of a field experience in a classroom that includes bilingual learners. Minors in the Carroll School of Management for Lynch School of Education and Human Development Students There are six minors offered to non-management students: Accounting for CPAs, Accounting for Finance and Consulting, Finance, Management and Leadership, Managing for Social Impact and the Public Good, and Marketing. Interested students should visit bc.edu/csom-minors for more information. Minors in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences for Lynch School of Education and Human Development Students In addition to a multitude of MCAS department and interdisciplinary minors, open to the Lynch School undergraduates, students may also declare the following minors that were created for specifically for Lynch School students by contacting the Office of Undergraduate Programs. Educational Theatre Minor This minor provides drama education and theatre training to LSEHD students who hope to include theater as a subject they teach and practice in school settings and/or who want to use creative dramatics and applied theatre techniques as teaching tools in other institutional settings. Communication Minor This 18-credit minor introduces students to the field of Communication. Students enroll in four required courses and two electives. Minors in LSEHD for Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, Carroll School of Management, and Connell School of Nursing Students Applied Psychology and Human Development Minor This 18-credit minor may interest students who wish to (1) deepen their knowledge of human behavior in the areas of psychology, human development, and learning sciences in preparation for a career in fields such as human capital, consulting, research, consumer behavior, organizational studies, client relations, recruitment, marketing, advertising, counseling, public health, social, community and political advocacy, among others; (2) gain specialized knowledge in certain specific areas of human development and wellness: for example, counseling, training, personal assessment, family crisis assistance, substance abuse interventions, and child/aging/elderly care; or (3) prepare for employment in a government or private sector organizations. Foundation in Education Minor This 18-credit minor introduces students to courses in the fields of applied psychology and teacher education. Inclusive Education Minor This 18-credit minor is designed to (1) introduce students to the world of disabilities and special education, with an emphasis on special education practice, and (2) enhance the ability of future professionals to meet the needs of an increasingly diverse population of students in America’s schools. Research, Evaluation, and Measurement Minor The Research, Evaluation, and Measurement minor is designed to advance understanding research, evaluation, and measurement tools and practices. Students will explore topics as they relate to education, applied psychology, and human development. Students successfully completing this minor with the appropriate 3.0 GPA also have the opportunity of accelerated entry into the Masters in Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics and Assessment degree offered at the LSEHD graduate school. Leadership in Higher Education and Community Settings Minor This 18-credit minor is designed for students who may have an interest in institutions of higher education, in local and international non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and/or in community-based organizations and programs. Secondary Education Minor This minor is open to Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences students who major in one of the following disciplines: English, Mathematics, History, Foreign Language, Biology, Chemistry, Earth and Environmental Science, Physics, and who plan to pursue licensure to teach in high school. Declaration of Minor Process Students in MCAS who are interested in the Secondary Education Minor should make an appointment with the Office of Undergraduate Programs. This minor requires early planning, an interview, an application, and a minimum grade point average of 3.0. Graduation For information regarding graduation, visit the Graduation section of Undergraduate Academic Policies. This includes information on policies regarding such topics as: Advanced Standing Acceleration The University awards degrees in May, August, and December of each year, although commencement ceremonies are held only in May. Fifth Year and Early Admit Programs Print Open All Close All For Boston College Juniors For Boston College Juniors The Fifth Year and Early Admission Programs offer academically qualified Boston College juniors a unique opportunity to begin graduate study during their undergraduate senior year, allowing them to graduate with a bachelor’s and master's degree in a shortened amount of time. Students accepted in the Fifth Year/Early Admit program will be able to apply two approved graduate courses (6 credits) towards both their bachelor's degree (120 credits) and their master's degree (30 credits or more). In consultation with an advisor, a graduate level course may be added each semester onto the student's senior-year schedule. All undergraduate juniors in the Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, Connell School of Nursing, and Carroll School of Management are eligible to apply for these programs. (*See additional Early Admit requirements below.) Fifth Year Programs are available in: Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Global Perspectives Learning Engineering Early Childhood, Elementary, or Secondary Teaching Curriculum and Instruction Moderate Special Needs (mild/moderate learning disabilities, developmental disabilities, and behavior disorders) Severe Special Needs (including visually impaired, deaf/blindness, and multiple disabilities) Higher Education There may be limited federal financial assistance for some graduate programs in Severe Special Needs and Secondary Science Teaching. Early Admit Programs are available in Mental Health Counseling and School Counseling. Given the number of credits required for licensing in Mental Health and School Counseling, both Early Admit Program and students admitted directly into the M.A. programs typically need six years to complete their B.A. and license-eligible M.A. degree in Mental Health (60 credits) or School Counseling (48 credits). The main advantages of the Early Admit Program are (1) BC juniors receive early provisional admittance into these M.A. programs, and (2) complete two master's-level courses during senior year. Students interested in a Fifth Year or Early Admit Program should consult with the Lynch School Office for Graduate Student Services, Campion 135, during the fall semester of their junior year. Without proper advisement and early acceptance into a master's degree program, students will be unable to complete the program in five years. Full Graduate Student Status Full Graduate Student Status Upon successful graduation from the undergraduate program, Fifth Year and Early Admit students will be advanced to full graduate student status if they have maintained good academic standing (including a 3.5 or higher in their two graduate courses). Early admit students will also need to have engaged in field experience as described above. Students should submit their transcripts and documentation of any additional service work if the work was not previously documented in their application for the Fifth Year and Early Admit programs. Upon final admission, the student will receive an official letter of acceptance into the full master's program by the Office of Graduate Admission (gsoe@bc.edu or 617-552-4214). Application Process Application Process Students must apply by March 1 of their junior year. Applicants must meet all graduate admission requirements. The application fee and GRE are waived for applicants to the Fifth Year and Early Admit Programs. Notification of approval to begin the program is usually made in May by the Office of Graduate Admission. If students are in a study-abroad program during their junior year but are still interested in one of these programs, they should contact the Office of Graduate Admission at gsoe@bc.edu or (617) 552-4214. If an applicant is not offered admission into the program, they are welcome to re-apply to the master's program upon completion of their undergraduate degree. B.A./M.S.W. Option B.A./M.S.W. Option A special master's degree program in Social Work program is also available for a limited number of students pursuing a B.A. in Applied Psychology and Human Development. Students should consult the Graduate School of Social Work for information on requirements, prerequisites, and application at the beginning of their sophomore year. Students interested in this 3/2 program in Applied Psychology and Human Development/Social Work should apply to the Graduate School of Social Work before the end of their sophomore year. Please contact the Office of Admissions, Graduate School of Social Work, Boston College, McGuinn Hall, Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts 02467, 617-552-4024. *Students who have completed some psychology-related coursework, have at least a 3.5 GPA, and have completed some type of practical, field-based or helping experience (e.g., residential advisor, camp counselor, hotline operator, youth worker, etc.), either volunteer or paid, are strong candidates for this program. B.A./M.S. Option B.A./M.S. Option A special accelerated entry Master of Science in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance is also available for a limited number of students pursuing a B.A. in LSEHD and successfully completing the Cyberstrategy minor. Students will be able to apply two approved graduate courses (6 credits) towards both their bachelor's degree (120 credits) and their Master of Science in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance degree. Students interested in this 4/1 accelerated entry program should consult with the LSEHD Advisor for the M.S. in the Cybersecurity Policy and Governance Program and the Lynch Office of Undergraduate Programs for information on requirements and prerequisites during their undergraduate coursework and to request the application for graduate level admission at the beginning of their senior year. *Students who have completed the Cyberstrategy minor including the two approved graduate courses and have at least a 3.0 GPA in both of the graduate courses counted in the minor are strong candidates for this graduate program. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College