Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries French Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs French Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info French Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in French Focus on composition, reading and writing, and conversational French with the Undergraduate Certificate in French in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. More than 200 million people across five continents speak French. This 20-credit certificate program introduces undergraduates to the French language and Francophone cultures. As you progress through the various levels of language courses, you’ll learn the fundamentals of grammar and vocabulary, and you’ll work to develop sophisticated conversational skills. These skills will allow you to speak, read and write confidently in French for the purposes of your professional or personal pursuits, in the U.S. and abroad. Classes & Curriculum Certificates are awarded only at the time of completion of the bachelor's degree and cannot be awarded either as a stand-alone program of study or after completion of the first bachelor's degree. Students are required to complete 20 credits of language courses. Course requirements include the following. Introduction to French I Introduction to French II Introduction to French III Intermediate French French for Business After completing the core courses, students may choose to focus on specific areas of the French language, including conversational French, reading or composition. Learn more about the course requirements for the French Undergraduate Certificate. Careers Speaking more than one language can set you apart in today’s global job market. It may increase your marketability and opportunities for career advancement and promotion. According to the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages, acquisition of a second language may also help improve standardized test scores, and it may improve memory and problem-solving skills. Additionally, studying a language and its culture can help you develop empathy and global thinking. It can broaden your perspective and help you cultivate a greater understanding of people and, in turn, the world. The critical skills gained from learning another language are directly applicable to today’s rapidly diversifying world and can be used across all fields and disciplines. The ability to speak, read and write French will prepare you for success in career opportunities in the following areas. Arts and entertainment Business Education Foreign government services Healthcare Hospitality and tourism Journalism Translating and interpreting Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Ruth Thomas is the faculty advisor in the French Department. Phone: 215-204-1758 Email: rpthomas@temple.edu Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact With questions regarding the French Undergraduate Certificate, contact the following staff member. Michelle Xu is an administrator in the French Department. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: xu.michelle@temple.edu The following staff members lead the French Department. Cristina Gragnani is chair of the French Department. Phone: 215-204-1816 Email: gragnani@temple.edu Stephanie Smith is the program coordinator in the French Department. Phone: 215-204-1261 Email: ssmith14@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-FREN-CR2+ Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in French Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info