Skip to main content Menu Audiences Home Faculty/Staff Resources Departments Centers and Institutes Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Prospective Students Current Students Research About News Partner Menu A First-Year Experience YOUR STORY STARTS HERE CLEMSON RISE is a first-year transition program, that is also a living-learning community. RISE is a cornerstone first-year experience, recognized for providing the tools that you need to be successful in your transition to Clemson and throughout your first year as an engineering, science, computing, or geology student. Find Yourself Here What if your first year on campus felt a little more like home? Familiar faces. Friendly spaces. Open doors and supportive mentors. What if your first day of class in a science or engineering course was full of people you met on move-in day and just a walk downstairs from your residence hall room? Or if finding a study group was as simple as stepping outside your door? As part of the CLEMSON RISE program, students will have opportunities to engage with fellow students and faculty, develop and apply their strengths, discover and invent new ideas, and achieve academically in the living-learning environment. Future Students↓ Impacts & Benefits↓ Did You Know? CLEMSON RISE is the largest living-learning community at the university and is the only community at Clemson to span two residence halls (Byrnes and Lever Halls). RISE supports engineering and science disciplines that have been at the heart of Clemson for more than 100 years. In fact, RISE was one of the first living-learning experiences to be established and has been in popular demand ever since. The socially supportive environment, proximity to campus resources, in-hall academic support, world-class faculty, and unique industry and leadership engagement opportunities help students make life-long friendships and develop a sense of resiliency to propel them forward into their future career fields. Future Students RISE creates dynamic environments to cultivate student achievement, promote the discovery of professional identity, and foster a sense of belonging to Clemson University. CLEMSON RISE will be offering virtual Q&A sessions with our Ambassadors during the Fall 2022 semester, so future students can learn more about the program. This will give those interested a chance to ask questions to current residents and student leaders. When signing up for a session below, select a specific date and time. Please include any questions you’d like the RISE Ambassadors to answer. You’ll receive an email confirmation and direct ZOOM link after registering for a session. JOIN A SESSION Steps to Sign-Up: Once accepted, students are able to opt-in to CLEMSON RISE on their University Housing contract. RISE supports the following disciplines—Engineering, School of Computing, Chemistry, Mathematical Sciences, Physics & Astronomy, Biological Sciences, Genetics & Biochemistry, Earth Sciences, and Pre-Professional Health Studies. CLEMSON RISE is dedicated to supporting all students. Needs-based scholarships are available for eligible applicants. If you are interested in applying for a program fee waiver, click the button below. Applications must be submitted by May 7th, and students awarded the program fee waiver will be notified on or before May 14th. This will give students plenty of time to adjust their Housing applications if needed. Reach out to the CLEMSON RISE team with questions or for additional information – clemsonrise@clemson.edu Apply for Waiver Step 1: Complete Next Steps After Acceptance + Congratulations - welcome to the Clemson Family! Before you can apply to be part of RISE you will need to complete a few more steps! Complete Next Steps After Acceptance provided by the University Admissions Office, and be sure to check your official Clemson email for important information and updates! Step 2: Sign-Up for Housing / Select RISE as Your Community of Choice + Signing up for housing is a three-step process.￼ Step 1: Signing Your Housing Contract ✓ Sign Contract ✓ Select a Meal Plan ✓ Make a Community Choice ✓ Answer Lifestyle Questions ✓ Create a Roommate Group (optional) Step 2: Receive Your Timeslot Step 3: Room Selection - Visit the Clemson Home website for a step-by-step guide and general sign-up FAQs. Step 3: Receive Your Housing Time Slot+ After the housing application closes, time slots are provided to students who have completed their application. Students who have selected the RISE Living-Learning Community will receive a time slot (on or before May 18) to select a room in the Byrnes or Lever residence halls. Be diligent in checking your Clemson email, your time slot notification will be provided to you at your official Clemson email address. Step 4: Select Your Room+ Students will be able to select a room during their time slot provided by University Housing. Time slots are allocated based on the date you applied to the University. Select your room in Byrnes/Lever Hall to be part of the RISE community. If you miss your time slot or do not select a room by the deadline provided by housing you may not be able to enroll in the RISE program. Once you have selected your room in Byrnes or Lever, RISE program staff will notify you with additional program information. Impacts & Benefits Students will have opportunities to engage with fellow students and faculty, develop and apply their strengths, discover and invent new ideas, and achieve academically in the living-learning environment. THRIVE. 96% of students would recommend RISE to a friend and expressed RISE eased their transition to Clemson University FRIENDS. Students have found life-long friends in their first year at Clemson who were also focused on achieving their future goals and academic success. RESOURCES. Students gain access to valuable in-community resources to explore new skills and develop new ideas. CONNECT. 80% of students reported RISE helped them form effective study groups. SUPPORT. Students are 2x more likely to interact with Faculty outside the classroom. Contact Information For more information please contact: Erica Harper CLEMSON RISE Director ☏(864) 656-2103 ✉ clemsonrise@clemson.edu @clemsonrise CLEMSON RISE FAQs & Contact Info Copyright © Clemson University Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences | Riggs Hall, Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3202 | Website Technical Contact: CECAS Web Services Coordinator Page Update Requests