Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Home About Students and Outcomes Training Modules Resources News & Events Publications Site Navigation Home About Programs Institutional Partners Leadership and Staff Students and Outcomes Alumni Postdocs Faculty Industry Current Students Training Modules Module Descriptions Upcoming Training Modules Faculty Trainers Senior Scholars Resources News & Events Newsletters Publications Program Publications Trainee Publications Slideshow Partial Brown Initiative to Maximize Student Development (IMSD) Dedicated to ensuring that its scholarly community is enriched by individuals, who, through their different races and ethnicities, nationalities, gender identities, age, abilities, political beliefs, spiritual beliefs, economic status, and sexual orientation, contribute to an intellectually challenging and inclusive educational environment. Training Modules IMSD hosted modules are specifically designed to address gaps, and build skills that may not be readily addressed in the classroom or laboratory. Our faculty-led modules are complimentary to students' discipline-specific training, helping to build confident, successful, and well-rounded graduates. Professional Development The [email protected] program offers our supported graduate students additional tools for success in professional settings. Support for national conferences and networking opportunities provide students with access to collaborations, professional development and peer learning. Mentoring for Success Through mentor training, enhaced advising and campus-wide collaborations, we work to partner with professionals beyond the Brown community to support our student trainees. We work to assemble the set of tools necessary to produce the next cohort of successful professionals. Community Through community building events, IMSD offers a space where students share their experiences, growth and accomplishments. Our student and community centered meetings serve as a place of support and peer learning. The goal of the IMSD program at Brown is to develop a diverse pool of scientists earning a Ph.D., who have the skills to successfully transition into careers in the biomedical and STEM research workforce. The IMSD is an educational grant awarded to Brown from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences within the NIH beginning in 2008. The IMSD program at Brown provides graduate students with professional development opportunities, academic support, and a community which enhances success in their PhD programs and makes them highly competitive for the postdoctoral positions and scientific careers of their choice. IMSD at Brown partners with 24 graduate programs in STEM fields. Dean Andrew G. Campbell and Dean Beth Harrington are co-PIs on this grant. News Jeremy Horrell Thesis Defense Apr 11, 2022 Read More Jeremy (JJ) Lomax Thesis Defense Apr 11, 2022 Read More Upcoming Training Module Apr 25, 2022 Read More There are no events available. Initiative to Maximize Student Development Initiative to Maximize Student Development Brown University Box G Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3777 Fax: 401-863-2925 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top