Skip to main content Skip to main content My Account My Account Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Libraries Find & Borrow Research & Teaching Locations & Collections Visit SMU Libraries About Get Help Find & Borrow Find Books Journals & Newspapers Articles Films Music Scores & Recordings Borrow & Request Checkout & Renew Interlibrary Loan Request a Purchase Guest Services Alumni Services Research Card Research & Teaching Scholarship & Publishing GIS@SMU SMU Scholar Research Data Digital Scholarship Scholarly Impact & Publishing Copyright Teaching Support Library Materials for Courses Classroom Instruction Assignment Design Online Guides & Tutorials Locations & Collections Libraries Bridwell Library Business Library DeGolyer Library Fondren Library Hamon Arts Library Underwood Law Library Fort Burgwin Library Exhibits & Digital Collections Campus Exhibits Online Exhibits Digital Collections Special Collections & Archives Visit Visit Hours Maps & Parking Technology & Printing Policies Accessibility Spaces Places to Study Graduate Student Spaces Lockers Class & Event Spaces About About Us Staff Directory Dean's Office Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Accessibility Faculty & Student Awards Join Us Staff & Student Employment Internships Student Advisory Board Friends of SMU Libraries Connect with Us News Events Social Media Contact Us Get Help Ask Us (email, chat, text, call) Research Guides by Discipline How Do I . . . ? Guides Find Your Librarian Attend Workshops Writing Support ☰ Libraries Spaces Class & Event Spaces Class & Event Spaces SMU Libraries has spaces available for the SMU community to reserve for events or classes. If you want to reserve a meeting or study room, please see Places to Study. Each space has its own policies. For AV equipment issues, contact OIT classroom support at 214-768-8888. Fondren Library Collaborative Commons (Starbucks Area), Gray Level 1 The Collaborative Commons can be reserved for tabling or other small events. Reserve in STABLE under space name FOLW 1: Starbucks Cafe. May be reserved by current SMU faculty, staff, and students for library-sponsored or library-approved events. OIT Computer Labs, Red 109 and 110 OIT has two computer labs in Fondren Library. Reserve in STABLE under space names FOLE0109 and FOLE0110. Fondren Library Red 109 has PC computers, one instructor station, projector and whiteboards. Fondren Library Red 110 has Mac computers, one instructor station, projector and whiteboards. Texana Room, Gray 211 The Texana Room is a special event space that can host groups of up to 25 people. Reserve in STABLE under space name FOLW0211. May be reserved Monday through Friday 8am to 9pm, Sat noon to 6pm, and Sun 10am to 9pm. May be reserved by current SMU faculty, staff, and students, with priority given to library-sponsored events. GIS Collaborative Lab, Red 106 The GIS Collaborative Lab has eight computers with ArcGIS software, a smartboard and projector, whiteboards, seating for 22, and worktables. Reserve the GIS Collaborative Lab May be reserved from library opening time until midnight. May be reserved by SMU faculty, staff, and students conducting digital scholarship. For questions, contact Sylvia Jones, sylviagw@smu.edu. Hamon Arts Library Hawn Conference Room, Hamon 1240 The Hawn Conference Room can be reserved for meetings or occasional instruction. It includes tables and seating for 21, a projection screen, multimedia equipment, DTEN and a dry erase board. May be reserved Monday through Thursday 8:30am to 8:00pm, and Friday 8:30 am to 4:30 pm. May be reserved by SMU faculty and staff, with priority given to library-sponsored events. Drinks with lids and light refreshments or boxed lunches are allowed. Catering is not permitted. Please leave the room in the condition it was found. For questions about the Hawn Conference Room, contact LaGail Davis at lagail@smu.edu or 214.768.4437. Reserve the Hawn Conference Room in Outlook by scheduling an appointment with attendees. Add Hamon Hawn Conference in “Rooms” to the meeting. Use the Scheduling Assistant to check for availability. Spaces Places to Study Class & Event Spaces Graduate Student Spaces Lockers Related Class Instruction GIS Library Location Maps and Floor Plans Maps & Directions | Contact Us | Feedback Accessibility | Legal Disclosures © SMU Libraries, PO Box 750135, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share