Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Areas Student Orgs Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs MA in SLP AdmissionsCurriculumNon-CSD CourseworkClinical EducationAdditional InformationApply NowSLP Program DescriptionSLP Program Goals AuD in Audiology AdmissionsCurriculumNon-CSD CourseworkClinical EducationAdditional InformationApply NowAuD Program DescriptionAuD Program GoalsAuD Specialization TracksAuD-PhD ProgramDual AuD-MPH Program PhD in CSD Admissions Apply Now Program Description PhD Program Goals American Sign Language ASL and Deaf StudiesASL CoursesASL as World LanguageASL MinorASL Placement and CreditWhy ASL? Graduate Certificates AACPopulation Hearing HealthVocology Continuing Education Walt Fritz Seminar Diversity Take Action Apply Now Support the School Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Programs PhD Admissions PhD Admissions The PhD program at the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders is designed to prepare students for academic-research careers in speech, language, or hearing sciences. The School offers a Ph.D. in Communication Sciences and Disorders with three areas of concentration: (1) Hearing Sciences and Disorders (2) Speech-Language Sciences and Disorders, or (3) Neuroscience. The program is highly individualized to the needs and background of the student and is developed in accordance with the student's research interests. Each student will form a planning committee upon entry into the program, and an individualized course of study will be designed to meet the student's educational and long-term goals. Mentoring is a critical component of each student's doctoral plan. Graduation requirements vary depending on the degrees the students have when entering the program. These requirements are listed in the graduate catalog. Funding available Full graduate assistantship funding (tuition +stipend) is available for the most meritorious applicants to pursue doctoral work. We encourage applications in all our areas of research. Finding a Mentor Having an excellent mentor is crucial to optimizing your doctoral program. In addition to your course work a significant amount of learning occurs in interaction within laboratory and research settings with your mentor. This one-on-one interaction is best when the mentor and student have a compatible personality and similar interests. To pick a mentor first look for someone with a similar interest by looking through the faculty profiles; then read their papers. Once you have found someone who looks compatible, call that person and discuss your interest in the Ph.D. program and working as a trainee in their lab. Finally, visit the program so you can get to know them and other faculty members as well as the general program facilities and environment. If you do not have a firm research goal, and many new students do not, talk to several individuals on the faculty and we can help you focus your interest areas. Joint mentorship is possible if there is compatibility with multiple faculty. Mentors are important as they will help guide your application through the system. Interested in Applying? Apply Now to our PhD Program For additional information contact: Gavin Bidelman Ph.D. (e-mail: gmbdlman@memphis.edu, telephone: 901.678.5826) Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.