Skip to content Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Find People Events Global Health Donate Search About Us About Us Explore VP&S Message from the Dean VP&S History Celebrating the Leadership of Lee Goldman Facts & Statistics 2021 State of the School Explore VP&S Leadership and Administration Campus Resources and Facilities Events Community Programs Contact Us Education Education Academic Programs Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Student Resources Office of Innovation in Health Professions Education Academic Programs MD Program MD Dual Degrees and Special Programs Program in Genetic Counseling Programs in Human Nutrition Programs in Occupational Therapy Programs in Physical Therapy PhDs in Biomedical Sciences Additional Master's Degree Programs Additional Educational Opportunities MD Program Join our MD program to become a physician with compassion, a sense of self, and true grit in all medical pursuits. Explore Our Program Research Research Office for Research Areas of Research Research Faculty Honors and Awards For Researchers For Researchers Core and Shared Facilities Research Resources Funding Areas of Research VP&S continues to be a world leader across the entire spectrum of basic science, translational, and clinical research Learn About Our Research Patient Care Departments & Centers Departments & Centers Affiliated Hospitals and Institutions Basic Science Departments Centers and Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Faculty Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Our mission is to provide world-class patient care, foster innovative research, and train the next generation of leaders in medicine. View Clinical Departments and Divisions You are here Home > Education > Academic Programs > Programs in Occupational Therapy > Master of Science > Admissions Master of Science Admissions Process and Timeline Admissions Requirements FAQ Tuition & Financial Aid Information Sessions Admissions Staff Our Location Curriculum Faculty Current Students Program Outcomes Accreditation Admissions Master of Science in Occupational Therapy Columbia University’s Programs in Occupational Therapy are proud to be one of the oldest yet exceptionally progressive programs that prepare occupational therapists. Our long tradition of excellence began in 1941, when the first students were admitted to a two-year diploma course. Since that time, thousands of graduates have enriched the lives of consumers all over the world. This is why we are consistently ranked among the top programs by USNews and World Report. Our professional program prepares competent occupational therapists who, by virtue of their graduate professional education, can enter the field of health care primarily as practitioners, with beginning skills in research, administration, indirect service, and education. The curriculum is based on the premise that students attain competence by learning in collaboration with their peers; by applying what they learn in a classroom to practice settings; and by developing skills for lifelong learning. Students come into this program with a strong foundation in the liberal arts, including the humanities and sciences. Professional education builds on and refines this knowledge base and develops skills in concept formation, analysis, synthesis, and problem-solving. Our students work closely and collaboratively with our nationally distinguished faculty in and out of the classroom. Clinical experiences begin in our first semester and are embedded throughout our programs, giving students the ongoing opportunity to apply therapeutic principles. Experiences with community partnerships further add to their knowledge and skills in prevention, and in community engagement. And, students are involved in research projects that add to the growing body of knowledge in the field of occupational therapy. Located in upper Manhattan and part of the Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, our students have access to all the resources of Columbia University in addition to the breadth of resources within New York City. Our community is a wonderful place in which to live and learn. All of this contributes to how we see the need, we meet it, we exceed it. Professional Licensure and Certification Disclosure Requirements Institutions are required to provide certain general disclosures for educational programs, regardless of modality, that prepare students for professional licensure. The required information relates to whether or not the educational program meets the requirements for professional licensure in all other states. Where applicable, an institution must also indicate when such a determination cannot be made. Professional licensure and certification requirements may vary state to state. This information is also subject to change. Students should contact the appropriate licensing agency for his or her home state to obtain the most up to date information. Columbia University’s Program in Occupational Therapy is accredited by Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE®) and thereby does meets the academic requirements for licensure in all 50 states. Date of Last Revision: 6/18/20 Process and Timeline Admissions Requirements FAQ Financial Aid Information Sessions Directions to the Program Admissions Staff Contact our staff with any questions by emailing otadmissions@cumc.columbia.edu or by calling 212-305-5267. Apply Now Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About VP&S Careers Education Research Administration Inside VP&S Columbia University Irving Medical Center Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Back to top