Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityGraduate School of Management Graduate School of Management Academics UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS Majors Minors Online Completer Program Current Student Resources Advising Central Student Organizations GRADUATE SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT MBA - Campus | Online | Executive MS Accounting & Accounting Analytics MS Applied Economics MA Corporate Communication MS Finance Master in Management MS Supply Chain Current Students Business from day one Be immersed in a business education steeped in academic excellence and the Catholic, Jesuit tradition. Real-world experience Experience an innovative curriculum and develop real-world skills with our applied programs. Departments Accounting Major Course Requirements Accounting Faculty Directory Faculty Publications Accounting Magazine International Business International Business Major Study Abroad International Business Faculty Economics Business Econ Major Course Requirements BA Econ Major Course Requirements Business Analytics Major Minor Course Requirements Management Innovation & Entrepreneurship Human Resources Information Systems Operations & Supply Chain Management Finance Finance Major Real Estate Major Finance Faculty Directory Career Resources & Networking Events Marketing Major Course Requirements Marketing Faculty Directory Minor Course Requirements Center for Professional Selling Career Center CAREER RESOURCES Exploring majors and careers Cover letters, resumes & other documents Building a network Job & internship search strategies Interviewing Accepting, Declining, & Negotiating Offers Internship for academic credit EMPLOYERS Campus recruitment Job & internship postings Campus & external career resource partners Staff & hours Mentors & Alumni Business Mentor Program Supporting the Business Career Center Outcomes and Data First destination reports Interactive internship and job data Centers/Programs Center for Applied Economics Applied Global Business Learning Marburg Memorial Lecture Faculty & Staff Applied Investment Management News & Events - AIM Blog Curriculum Faculty & Staff Center for Real Estate Conferences & Events Center Newsletter Faculty & Staff Commercial Banking Program Application Advisory Board & Sponsors Founders Center for Supply Chain Management What is Supply Chain Management? ISM Manufacturing Survey Faculty & Staff Executive Education Bridge to Business for Engineers Center for Professional Selling Faculty Faculty & Staff Directory Dean's Office Directory Faculty Experts for Media Research & Publications Companies More Location, Facilities & Visiting Campus Dean's Office Directory Dean's Leadership Council Mission, Vision & Strategic Priorities College Profile: Facts & Figures The Marquette Difference AACSB Accreditation Marquee Events Social Media Marquette.edu // Business // Graduate School of Management Nationally Ranked Programs Unlock your potential Sign up for an info session Start your application Contact a recruiter Explore the Graduate School of Management #15 Finance MBA Specialization (U.S. News & World Report, 2023) #17 EMBA Program (U.S. News & World Report, 2023) 20k+ Network of alumni worldwide Purpose driven What you’ve already accomplished is impressive. But you also know you’re poised for something greater: a bigger contribution. A new role. A higher trajectory. Launch the next phase of your life with the Marquette Graduate School of Management. Marquette MBA Earn our nationally ranked MBA at a pace that fits your life with options that include part time, full time and fully online. Learn More. TOP 100 U.S. News & World Report Online MBA Increase your career capital and infuse your work with purpose when you pursue our engaging online MBA. Learn More. Combine the flexibility of online courses with high-impact faculty and classmate relationships. Executive MBA Become a more effective leader with an ethically focused and globally conscious management approach in just 17 months. Learn More. RANKED #17 U.S. News & World Report Accounting Gain the expertise to become a certified public accountant and a leader in any business organization with a variety of career opportunities. Learn More. 12 MONTHS TO COMPLETE Accounting Analytics Grow into a sophisticated business partner combining accounting and technology skills. Learn More. Fast-track your career STEM designated – international students eligible for 36 months of Optional Practical Training Applied Economics Develop and apply advanced quantitative methods and practical skills to address opportunities and challenges within business and government. Learn More. Five specializations: marketing research, financial economics, business and managerial analytics, applied economics and business economics Corporate Communication Prepare for executive-level strategic communication roles and help elevate organizations of all sizes. Learn More. One of a few programs in the nation combining PR fundamentals and organizational communication theory with an advanced business education Joint MBA Programs Learn in an interdisciplinary environment while making it more efficient to complete two degrees at once. Learn More. Joint programs: MBA/JD, STEM-MBA and MBA/MA political science Master in Management Step up to the challenge of organizational leadership and learn to effectively align diverse talent to achieve superior results in any workplace. Learn More. 100% Online Accelerate your career with in-demand skills for any industry in as little as 16 months. MS in Supply Chain Prepare to lead the change from physical to digital supply chains. Ranked #15 by Gartner, Inc. (2020) and #22 by U.S. News & World Report (2023). Learn More. Industry-driven curriculum has certificate options in data science, machine learning, systems engineering, and business and managerial analytics. MS in Finance Combine theory and practice with cutting-edge, fully online courses in fintech, banking, real estate and more. Learn More. Complete a professional project with one-on-one faculty mentoring. Certificates Prepare for the next step in your career with one of our 12-15 credit certificate programs. Learn More Certificates include accounting analytics, business and managerial analytics, leadership and sports leadership Nationally ranked programs Flexible schedulesAchieve a healthy work-school-life balance. We know you have a life. Our class schedules give working professionals maximum flexibility, while still providing a challenging and rewarding curriculum. We offer fully online programs, as well as on-campus and hybrid programs with convenient in-person sessions. Our immersive experience is fueled by top-notch faculty and driven by students who are working professionals — making for practical, engaging and enriching in-class discussions. Accomplished facultyLearn from industry leaders. Our faculty provide a wealth of knowledge, experience and research across disciplines designed to fuel in-class discussions and out-of-class action. They are experts at making the class experience a laboratory for real-world problems just waiting to be solved. Additionally, instructors who work by day and teach by night provide a level of industry experience that strikes a harmonious chord with a classroom typically filled with working professionals. Meet a few of our best. Jennica Webster Associate Professor of Management, Co-Director of Marquette University's Institute for Women's Leadership Excellence in Diversity and Inclusion Award Kristie Rogers Associate Professor of Management Published in Harvard Business Review David Bauer Instructor of Practice - Finance Chief Investment Officer of Lubar & Co. Bin Wang Assistant Professor of Finance 2021 Miles Research Fellowship awarded annually to the best scholar in the College of Business Margaret Hughes-Morgan Associate Professor of Management Winner, Excellence in Executive Education Award 2019 Scott Rex Co-director, Northwestern Mutual Data Science Institute Leads $40M partnership among Marquette, UWM and Northwestern Mutual Earning PotentialGet a solid return on your investment. 25% higher earnings A Marquette graduate degree brings higher earnings. In fact, the average graduate business degree is worth 25% higher earnings over the lifetime of a career. Business Career Center Graduate School of Management students and alumni benefit from specialized and personalized Business Career Center resources. Services and programs include individual career planning sessions, robust employer partnerships, career fairs and networking events. Join a family, a new network to rely on. Powerful alumni networkExpand your world and your possibilities. Marquette business alumni make up a global network that offers students a vast resource — long after you receive your diploma. Our alumni network stays connected with campus and with each other. Within the Marquette alumni community, you'll always have a mentor, a colleague and a way to give back. Bottom line: Better world. Gain business, economic and social perspective, develop the capability to manage change at every level, and understand how to apply it all to serve the greater good. We invite you to learn and collaborate inside our $60 million, 100,000-square-foot business and innovation center (to be completed in December 2022) while you prepare to become an ethical global leader. Reach for moreTake the next step. We’ll send you information about programs and the admissions process and connect you with an admissions specialist to guide you. Loading... Location Marquette University David A. Straz, Jr., Hall 1225 W. Wisconsin Ave Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (800) 222-6544 Key Resources Submit for BizNews Campus contacts Campus map Search marquette.edu eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Problem with this webpage? Report an accessibility problem For other issues contact joseph.stathus@marquette.edu Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©