Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary FOSTER SCHOOL OF BUSINESS BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION MARKETING Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 MKTG 275 Marketing Essentials (3) I&S Beard Explores marketing principles and their usefulness in diverse business and organizational settings. Discusses controllable and uncontrollable factors in making marketing decisions, and the implications of product life cycle for decision-making. Develops working knowledge of marketing strategy. Not open for credit to students pursuing a Business degree. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 275 MKTG 301 Marketing Concepts (4) Tools, factors, and concepts used by management in planning, establishing policies, and solving marketing problems. Marketing concepts, consumer demand and behavior, location analysis, marketing, functions, institutions, channels, prices, and public policy. Prerequisite: ECON 200. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 301 MKTG 305 Essentials of Marketing and Sales (5) Introduction of the marketing concepts with an emphasis on strategic thinking and understanding consumer markets while learning basics of promotion to create an effective marketing plan. Introduces the basics of a selling approach while working with others solve problems to sell to other businesses or consumers. Cannot be taken for credit if credit received for MKTG 301. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 305 MKTG 335 Principles of Selling (4) Focuses on selling from salesperson's perspective, role of persuasion in professional selling and other organizational settings. In addition to coursework in such areas as consumer behavior, negotiation, and communication, students practice sales skills in role plays, presentations, and other exercises requiring practical application of selling theory. Prerequisite: MKTG 301 or MKTG 305. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 335 MKTG 370 Retailing (4) Profit planning and business control; buying, stock control, pricing, promotion; store location, layout, organization, policies, systems; coordination of store activities. Prerequisite: MKTG 301 or MKTG 305; may not be repeated. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 370 MKTG 411 Business to Business Marketing (4) Covers the integrated marketing approach that enables a supplier firm to understand, create, and deliver value to other businesses, governments, and institutional customers. Case-based and project-oriented approach to studying marketing management in the business-to-business market that brings the fundamental concepts to life with practical example. Prerequisite: MKTG 301. Instructors: Caldieraro View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 411 MKTG 415 Pricing Strategy and Value Management (4) Examines theoretical and applied perspectives in pricing strategy and tactics. Explores how firms optimally create, communicate, and capture value to achieve organizational objectives. Provides students with a rigorous foundation for pricing decisions and profitable customer solutions. Prerequisite: MKTG 301. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 415 MKTG 430 Sales Force Management (4) Focuses on the role of the sales manager within the organization. Includes distribution planning, sales organization, management of the sales force, methods of sales, cost and financial analysis, and performance analysis. Prerequisite: MKTG 301 or MKTG 305; may not be repeated. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 430 MKTG 445 Multicultural Marketing and Business Development (4) DIV Integrates tools from marketing, consulting, and multi-cultural business management to provide consulting services to small business in economically-distressed communities. Working in teams with assistance from industry mentors and alumni from the course, students gain practical experience in multi-cultural marketing, consulting, and managing a business. Prerequisite: MKTG 301 or MKTG 305. Offered: jointly with MGMT 445. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 445 MKTG 450 Consumer Behavior (4) Theory and practice pertinent to marketing decisions; utilization of theories from behavioral sciences in marking research; theories of fashion, characteristics of goods, shopping behavior, product differentiation, market segmentation, and opinion leadership; application of concepts to management of advertising, personal selling, pricing, and channels of distribution. Prerequisite: MKTG 301 or MKTG 305; may not be repeated. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 450 MKTG 452 Consumer Marketing and Brand Strategy (4) Presents a consumer psychology inspired framework for cultivating and maximizing brand equity. Specific emphasis on brand positioning, visual identity design, brand association creation, and brand portfolio management. Greater attention to consumer-facing brands, but B2B brands will also be discussed. Prerequisite: MKTG 301. Instructors: Forehand View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 452 MKTG 454 Strategic Product Management (4) Focuses on best practices in new product development including customer-centric innovation, market identification, prototype development, value proposition communication, testing tactics and launch strategy. Prerequisite: MKTG 301; may not be repeated. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 454 MKTG 455 Entrepreneurial Marketing (4) Examines the skills and tools entrepreneurs need for bootstrap marketing in their start-up firms. Students learn to identify target market segments, position their products, estimate demand, set prices, gain access to channels, and manage the issues of rapid growth. Prerequisite: MKTG 301; may not be repeated. Offered: jointly with ENTRE 455. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 455 MKTG 456 Advertising (4) Management of the advertising function and its integration with other forms of promotion. Planning the program, determining the most effective approach, evaluation of media and budget, advertising research, advertising institutions, economic and social aspects. Prerequisite: MKTG 301 or MKTG 305; may not be repeated. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 456 MKTG 460 Consumer Insights (4) Ann Schlosser Examines marketing research process; steps of research design, questionnaire construction, sampling, data analysis, evaluation/presentation of findings, online research, and web surveys. Class project provides practical application. May not be repeated. Prerequisite: MKTG 301; either ECON 311, QMETH 201, STAT 220, STAT 221/CS&SS 221/SOC 221, STAT 301, STAT 311, or STAT 390. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 460 MKTG 462 Customer Analytics (4) Focuses on how to use existing customer data to develop marketing strategies that improve customer response. The featured analytics translate customer data into inferred customer needs that can guide marketing decisions on pricing, advertising, and product recommendations. Prerequisite: MKTG 301 or MKTG 305. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 462 MKTG 464 Analytics for Marketing Decisions (4) Focuses on how firms can use real large scale databases and analytics to improve and automate firm-level marketing decisions. Consists of five modules - product design analytics, analytics for large-scale field experiments, advertising analytics, digital analytics, and mobile analytics. Prerequisite: MKTG 301 or MKTG 305. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 464 MKTG 466 Digital Marketing Analytics (4) Amin Sayedi Provides a quantitative analysis of the digital marketing landscape on topics such as online advertising, social media, growth strategies and search engine optimization. Explores data-driven methods to evaluate digital opportunities, marketing strategies, and online business models. Prerequisite: MKTG 301 or MKTG 305. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 466 MKTG 470 International Marketing (4) Focuses on assessing international marketing opportunities, formulating and implementing international marketing strategies. Examines how to use marketing analyses and deductive decision modeling in assessing international marketing opportunities. Uses marketing tools and concepts in the planning, preparation, and presentation and discussion of cases and class project. Prerequisite: MKTG 301; may not be repeated. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 470 MKTG 485 Strategic Market Management (4) Strategically analyzes important marketing issues by combining basic models of marketing with powerful spreadsheet analysis. Case discussions and projects provide valuable application exercises. Prerequisite: MKTG 301. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 485 MKTG 490 Special Topics and Issues in Marketing (1-6, max. 12) Contemporary topics and issues in marketing: marketing in nonprofit organizations, marketing of services, marketing in the public sector, and marketing in an economy of scarcity. Ordinarily only one topic area is addressed in any one quarter. Course content reflects contemporary developments and the current interests of instructors and students. Prerequisite: MKTG 301. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 490 MKTG 495 Marketing Internship (1-4, max. 8) An internship with a company, not for profit organization, or government agency in a marketing capacity. Prerequisite: MKTG 301. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 495 MKTG 496 Marketing Practicum (4) Offers opportunities to apply principles, concepts, and skills learned previously to actual business situations. Participation in class part-time and in an internship with a business employer part-time. Prerequisite: MKTG 301. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 496 MKTG 499 Undergraduate Research (1-6, max. 9) Prerequisite: MKTG 301. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 499 MKTG 501 Marketing Management (4) Analysis and management of customer satisfaction in goods and services markets by profit and nonprofit organizations. Buyer behavior, market segmentation and product positioning, product policy, pricing, distribution, sales force and advertising management, and market research in the contexts of strategy development, decision making, implementation, and control. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 501 MKTG 505 Marketing Strategy (4) Focuses on the role of analytical marketing tools and competitive dynamics in strategy formation. Accentuates the integrative nature of marketing strategy through development of a strategic marketing plan and use of simulation software. Prerequisite: MBA core marketing. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 505 MKTG 511 Business-to-Business Marketing (4) Integrated approach to product marketing management in the business-to-business marketplace. Analysis of core competencies, competitive environment, positioning and segmentation strategies, cost structure, and customer satisfaction. Case-based and project-oriented approach to studying marketing management in the business-to-business market. Prerequisite: MBA core marketing or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 511 MKTG 518 Strategic Marketing Management (4) Dan Turner Designed to enable students to become better marketing decision makers, i.e., one who can recommend specific marketing actions that have a higher probability of achieving organizational goals by using a decision process that consumes fewer organizational resources. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 518 MKTG 520 Marketing Channels (4) Channels of distribution decisions for goods and services in profit and nonprofit organizations. Considers methods of optimizing the number, quality of institutions and activities employed in dealing with exchange, and space and time aspects of channel management. Relates management of marketing channels to marketing mix, organizational objectives. Prerequisite: MBA core marketing. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 520 MKTG 530 Managing the Sales System (4) Examines the revenue generation function of a firm from a system-wide perspective. Topics include strategic and tactical considerations related to customer acquisition and retention, end-to-end sales and support operations, strategic partnerships, and continuous performance monitoring. Emphasis on case studies and team projects. Prerequisite: MBA core marketing. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 530 MKTG 531 Product Management (2) J. Shulman Provides framework to be successful in the development and launching of new products. Covers customer-centric innovation, market identification, prototype development, value proposition communication, testing tactics and launch strategy. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 531 MKTG 535 Analytics Consulting Lab (4) Russell Walker Provides a real-world learning experience for students to work with sponsoring companies on business questions that revolve around analysis. Students work in teams using analysis to answer current and important business questions. Prerequisite: completion of a college-level statistics class. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 535 MKTG 550 Managing Customer Relationships through Direct Marketing (4) Management of customer relationships through the lens of direct marketing. Topics include direct marketing creative activity, strategy, and execution; media and segmentation; direct marketing budgeting and financials; targeting, database, and predictive modeling; catalogue marketing; relationship marketing; business-to-business complex sales; privacy. Prerequisite: MBA core marketing. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 550 MKTG 552 Consumer Marketing and Brand Strategy (4) M. FOREHAND Presents a consumer psychology inspired framework for cultivating and maximizing brand equity. Specific emphasis on brand positioning, visual identity design, brand association creation, and brand portfolio management. Greater attention to consumer-facing brands, but B2B brands will also be discussed. Prerequisite: B A 500 or MKTG 501. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 552 MKTG 554 Strategic Product Management (4) Focuses on best practices in new product development including customer-centric innovation, market identification, prototype development, value proposition communication, testing tactics and launch strategy. Prerequisite: B A 500 or MKTG 501. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 554 MKTG 555 Entrepreneurial Marketing (4) Examines the skills and tools entrepreneurs need for bootstrap or guerilla early-stage companies. Covers how to target market segments, position products, estimate demand, set prices, gain access to channels, and manage issues of rapid growth. Prerequisite: B A 501, MKGT 501 or equivalent. Offered: jointly with ENTRE 555. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 555 MKTG 556 Advertising and Promotion Management (4) Management of advertising and promotional activities and their integration with other elements of the marketing mix. Topics include: understanding the communication process, analyzing markets, working with suppliers, establishing objectives, determining budgets, selecting media, measuring and evaluating effectiveness, using publicity and promotions. Legal, social, and economic consequences are considered. Prerequisite: MBA core marketing. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 556 MKTG 560 Consumer Insights (4) Ann Schlosser Methods and applications of marketing research to solve marketing problems. Deals with: problem definition, research design, questionnaire construction, sampling, and data analysis using SPSS. Introduces promising new developments in online research, web surveys, and data analysis. Class research project provides practical application. Prerequisite: MBA core marketing. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 560 MKTG 562 Customer Analytics (4) O. RUTZ Focuses on how to use existing customer data to develop marketing strategies that improve customer response. The featured analytics translate customer data into inferred customer needs that can guide marketing decisions on pricing, advertising, and product recommendations. Prerequisite: B A 500 or MKTG 501. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 562 MKTG 564 Analytics for Marketing Decisions (4) Focuses on how firms can use real large scale databases and analytics to improve and automate firm-level marketing decisions. Consists of four key modules - Product design analytics, Pricing analytics, Promotion and advertising analytics, Placement analytics (with focus on digital and mobile channels). Prerequisite: B A 500 or MKTG 501 View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 564 MKTG 566 Digital Marketing Analytics (4) Amin Sayedi Provides a quantitative analytics of the digital marketing landscape on topics such as online advertising, social media, growth strategies and search engine optimization. Explores data-driven methods to evaluate digital opportunities, marketing strategies, and online business models. Prerequisite: B A 500 or MKTG 501. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 566 MKTG 568 Pricing Strategy and Analytics (4) Jeffrey D. Shulman, Shirsho Biswas Blends marketing analytic frameworks, marketing strategy, and microeconomic theory, and data to formulate actionable pricing strategies. Covers how to coordinate pricing decisions with the rest of the marketing value proposition. Content also includes the underlying theory for each pricing structure, along with the practical considerations for implementation. Prerequisite: B A 500 or MKTG 501. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 568 MKTG 570 International Marketing (4) Analysis of the marketing strategies and tactics of multinational corporations. Choice of entry strategies for foreign markets, analyzing international competition at home and abroad, and developing global marketing strategies. Prerequisite: MBA core marketing. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 570 MKTG 575 Marketing High-Technology Products (4) Management of the marketing requirements of high-technology products. Examines how markets for high-tech products involve shortened product life cycles, demand for continual product updates, perceived risk of adoption by customers, requirements for intensive customer service and relationships, and growing reliance on business partners. Prerequisite: MBA core marketing. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 575 MKTG 579 Special Topics in Marketing (2/4, max. 12) Marketing topics of current concern to faculty and students. Offered only when allowed by faculty availability and sufficient student interest. Seminar content to be announced in advance of scheduled offerings. Prerequisite: MBA core marketing. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 579 MKTG 581 Doctoral Seminar in Consumer Behavior (4) Survey of the field of consumer behavior introduces fundamental topics in consumer behavior including cognitive processes, emotion, and consumer satisfaction. Provides exposure to a variety of research methods including experiments, surveys, and phenomenological research. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 581 MKTG 582 Doctoral Seminar in Empirical Models in Marketing (4) Oliver J. Rutz Focuses on the analysis of aggregate and individual marketing data using statistical models. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 582 MKTG 583 Doctoral Seminar in Marketing Strategy (4) Study of factors influencing business performance and role of marketing in achieving competitive advantage. Analysis of prevailing, and emerging, theories underlying strategic thinking and competitive process. Examination of empirical research regarding measurement, level, and persistence of business success and implications of findings for theory and strategy development. Prerequisite: BA RM 580. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 583 MKTG 584 Doctoral Seminar in Marketing Performance Measurement (2/4, max. 12) Natalie Mizik Examines the central theoretical and empirical issues underlying research in assessing marketing performance. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 584 MKTG 591 Doctoral Seminar in Social Influence and Consumer Behavior (4) Lea H Dunn Examines research topics in consumer behavior related to social influence - how social perception, group processes, and identity influence consumer response to marketing-related activities. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 591 MKTG 592 Theories and Approaches in Behavioral Consumer Research (4) Nidhi Agrawal Reviews contemporary theories and research on how consumers process information and form judgments of products, brands and services. Also reviews the role of consumption decisions on consumer well-being. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 592 MKTG 593 Doctoral Seminar in Applied Game Theory (4) Jeffrey D. Shulman Provides an introduction to how analytical models can be developed to advance marketing theory and be applied in marketing. Focuses on the fundamentals of developing, analyzing, and interpreting game theory models to inform marketing decisions. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 593 MKTG 594 Doctoral Seminar in Behavioral Decision Theory (4) Scott G Wallace Reviews the foundations, applications, and major streams of research in Behavioral Decision Theory -- the examination of how consumers make decisions, how those processes influence decision outcomes, and how decisions can be improved. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 594 MKTG 595 Doctoral Seminar in Dynamic Choice Models and Counterfactual Reasoning (4) Hema Yoganarasimhan Introduces models of inter-temporal trade-offs made by consumers and firms. Includes discussion of Markov decision processes, estimation and identification of structural dynamic discrete choice models, offline and online reinforcement learning, and dynamic policy evaluation. Prerequisite: completion of college-level coursework in static discrete choice models; and basic understanding of a programming language. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 595 MKTG 596 Doctoral Seminar in Machine Learning Methods (4) Lalit Kumar Jain Focuses on the fundamentals of machine learning techniques, both from a theoretical and applied perspective, that arise in business practice. Prerequisite: completed college-level work in probability and statistics; and basic programming knowledge of Python. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 596 MKTG 599 Doctoral Seminar in Marketing (1, max. 12) Study and research in advanced topics of marketing. The seminar is generally concerned with unpublished areas of research and conducted by visiting professors and departmental faculty. Prerequisite: doctoral student status. View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 599 MKTG 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: MKTG 600 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022