By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Stories Story Archive: 2022 Amplifying Voice, Building Community Link By Jay Cox Now in its third year, the Narratio Fellowship program ignites the creativity of Syracuse-area resettled refugee students through storytelling and looks to expand the initiative to Richmond, Virginia. Writing a Legacy Link By Rob Enslin English professor and New York Times bestselling author George Saunders G’88 is inspiring the next generation of writers—and readers. Sustainable Architecture Link By Shaina M. Hill Senior architecture student advances design strategies that reduce negative environmental impact and advocates for sustainability in the industry. A Model Student Link By Rob Enslin Graduating senior attributes her success to professors who ‘go the extra mile.’ Building Skills, Exchanging Ideas Link By Jay Cox Bioengineering student takes advantage of academic and social activities while seeking to create opportunities and access for others. Inspiring Philanthropy Link By Jay Cox For over a decade, the Phanstiel Scholars program has supported students in their pursuit of academic excellence and community engagement. Taking the Next Step Link By Lisa Maresca A veteran and post-traditional student advances her career through Syracuse University Global. The Impact of Giving Link By Lisa Maresca Students share how scholarships and alumni connections provide opportunities for academic success. Sowing Seeds of Hope Link By Rob Enslin An aspiring educator wants to make urban schools more inclusive for students, teachers and administrators. Up Close and Personal Link By Rob Enslin An economics major uses remote learning and study abroad to take his education to new heights Ready for the Majors Link By Jay Cox Sport analytics senior leads the way for women in the field and catches dream job with the New York Yankees. Ten Great Places to Study for Finals Link By Lisa Maresca These spots offer peace and quiet when it’s time to hit the books. A World of Opportunity Link By Sarah H. Griffin Post-traditional student in the field of knowledge management connects with a global network and discovers a wide range of career options. Shaping the Future of Climate Journalism Link By Sarah H. Griffin Journalism and international relations student studies the power of communication to drive change. Launching Ground of Dreams Link By Lisa Maresca Two young alumni reflect on their Orange experiences and offer advice for students. Exploring Unknowns Link By Betsey A. Brairton Industrial design alumnus introduces students to historic Mars aircraft and illuminates paths to new worlds of possibility. Rising at Her Own Pace Link By Rob Enslin Syracuse University Global allows post-traditional student to prepare for a career in social work without putting her life on hold. Molecular Mystery Link By Jay Cox Engineering professor probes the workings of the blood-brain barrier with goal that one day her research will help treat and cure brain-related diseases. Architect of Her Own Future Link By Elizabeth Myers Alumna forges a purposeful, creative path toward a long-envisioned career. Soaring to Excellence Link By Rob Enslin World-class flight simulator is propelling engineering students to new heights. Direct Route to Meaningful Impact Link By Lisa Maresca New pathways allow undergraduates to pursue their dreams from day one. Rising to New Heights of Innovation Link By Jay Cox From extended reality to flying drones, journalism professor guides students as they explore new technologies for storytelling. Building Community and Understanding Link By Sarah H. Griffin Syracuse University Muslim chaplain and doctoral student takes the lead on improving Muslim student experience in higher education. Orange Crush Link By Lisa Maresca We all love Otto. Now get to know the seniors behind our spirited mascot. Piecing Together the Climate Puzzle Link By Jay Cox Earth sciences professor looks to the future by examining global weather patterns of the ancient past. A Mindful Path Link By Lisa Maresca A triple major combines psychology, forensic science and neuroscience to create a foundation that will help her enrich and empower the lives of incarcerated juveniles. A Nourishing Interdisciplinary Alliance Link By Mary Beth Horsington Faculty elevate nutrition education for medical students, aiming to impact patient health outcomes through an interdisciplinary collaboration with Upstate Medical University. Man of the People Link By Lisa Maresca Using his degrees in political science and broadcast journalism, an alumnus rises to become Binghamton’s youngest mayor. Executing a Big Idea Link By Betsey A. Brairton A senior in advertising shows how a great new idea—or major, or career progression—is the culmination of many learning experiences. Sustainably Chic Link By Lisa Maresca A senior fashion design major aspires to create long-lasting classic clothes that are good for the environment. Insights on Asia’s Music Scene Link By Jay Cox Alumnus and music executive connects music industry students with global trendsetters. Honing Humanities Excellence Link By Rob Enslin Humanities Center Faculty Fellows advance research on issues of broad societal concern. No Biz Like Snow Biz Link By Rob Enslin Since 1933, Winter Carnival has warmed the heart of campus by celebrating the frozen beauty of the season. Visual Artist Receives National Recognition Link By Maren Powell Studio arts professor Sharif Bey was named a 2022 USA Fellow by United States Artists. 50 Years of ’Cuse Women’s Athletics Link By Rob Enslin Syracuse celebrates women’s varsity sports, which have transformed the Orange into a Division 1 powerhouse. Operating for Equity Link By Mary Beth Horsington Alumnus and physician-scientist’s innovative research challenges health care inequities and lifts up underrepresented communities. Opportunity for Impact Link By Shaina M. Hill Biotechnology major pairs science with business to address to one of humanity's most critical challenges while launching a career with Pfizer Legendary No. 33 Link By Rob Enslin Basketball standout and veteran coach Felisha Legette-Jack ’89 is the first Syracuse University alumna to have her jersey retired. Fuel for Success Link By Jay Cox Alumna leads nutrition program to help athletes at the Olympic Training Center in Lake Placid rise to their potential. Gold Medal Goals Link By Jonah Restuccio and Lisa Maresca A former Syracuse Orange student-athlete and health and exercise science graduate pursues her Olympic dream. Ten Reasons to Love Winter in Central New York Link By Sarah H. Griffin Experience unique opportunities for fun and adventure on campus and in the region. A Fulbright Journey to France Link By Mary Beth Horsington Alumna transcends goals while pursuing her passion for engineering, volleyball and student mentoring. Cultivating a Community Link By Lisa Maresca Alumnus leverages an entrepreneurial spirit and passion for creating community to revitalize Central New York. An Integrated Learning Experience Link By Betsey A. Brairton A senior combines biology with environment, sustainability and policy to help tackle climate change. Written in the Stars Link By Rob Enslin A first-generation student is using the 4+1 electrical engineering program to spark a career in space travel. Chemistry of Change Link By Sarah H. Griffin Alumni launch research internship program for high school students in Syracuse University labs, giving rise to life-changing opportunities. An Animated Legacy Link By Rob Enslin The genius behind ‘Up,’ ‘Wall-E’ and other Pixar classics credits Syracuse for catapulting his career to dizzying heights. A Creative Path to Raising Questions Link By Jay Cox Philosophy professor explores ideas on race, language and humor and their impact on people’s lives. Previous Story Archive: 2021 Next Recent Stories Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy