Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Financing & Support Internal Funding & Appointments International Travel Fund Graduate School Skip to Navigation International Travel Fund The International Travel Fund provides funding for graduate students traveling abroad to present at academic conferences or conduct research. Awards range from $600 to $1,000 and are based on the distance of travel from Providence, RI, the budget requested, and the availability of funding at the time the request is received by the Graduate School. Given funding limitations, an application does not guarantee support. The standard award amounts, based on the distance of the destination from Providence, RI are as follows: Less than 3,000 miles - $600 3,000-5,000 miles - $700 5,000-6,000 miles - $800 6,000-7,000 miles - $900 7,000+ miles - $1,000 All applications and associated documentation must be submitted online through UFunds. Please email [email protected] with any questions. Award Eligibility: Doctoral students in years 1 - 6 or on a COVID Appointment Extension; Master's students Students are eligible to apply for international travel funding if they are doctoral students in years 1-6, doctoral students on a COVID Appointment Extension, or Master’s students during the entire duration of the travel associated with the award. Students currently on leave are not eligible. Traveling outside of the US to either present at a conference or conduct research Students traveling to a conference must show proof that they have been invited to present at the conference. This can be an official email or letter of invitation to present at the conference or a program from the conference with the student’s name and presentation title listed. Awards will not be granted for merely attending a conference. Students traveling for research must provide a one-page summary of proposed research activities. Students attending a summer school or course which provides critical training for a research project are eligible to apply, but must clearly explain the necessity of the school/course in their research summary. One successful International Travel Fund award per academic year Students can receive one International Travel Fund award per academic year (June 1 through May 31) as determined by the end date of travel. Apply at least 14 days before the start of travel Applications must be submitted through UFunds at least 14 days before the start of travel. Students not able to make this deadline should email [email protected] to see if an exception can be made. This requirement allows the Graduate School time to process applications and notify students whether they will receive funding or not prior to the start of travel. Provide an approved Safety Plan, if applicable All students are required to register their travel plans in TravelSafe and, in addition, some international travel destinations require completion of a Safety Plan in TravelSafe and approval from the Global Travel Risk Assessment Committee (GTRAC). Check Brown’s current travel guidelines and requirements on the International Travel Risk Management webpage or the Travel Policies webpage to determine if GTRAC approval is required for travel to your intended destination. Using your International Travel Fund award The International Travel Fund award is processed as a reimbursement through a student’s home department. Prepaid expenses such as airfare, conference registration, and prepaid hotel rooms can be submitted for reimbursement prior to travel. Expenses that are not paid for in advance, as well as per diem meals, can be submitted once the student returns from travel. All documentation should be submitted to a student’s home department for processing within 30 days of the completion of travel. Please refer to the Graduate Travel Fund Reimbursement Guidelines for details about the reimbursement process and what documentation to submit. Other Funding Opportunities Graduate School Travel Funding Summary Doctoral Research Travel Grant Conference Travel Fund Joukowsky Summer Research Award Graduate Student Council Conference and External Travel Funding Global Mobility Research Fellowship Student Research Grants in Judaic Studies Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Tuition & Fees Health and Dental Insurance Financial Considerations Master's Funding Ph.D. Funding Internal Funding & Appointments Student Loans Student Employment Student Payroll Procedures Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items UFUNDS Online Application Graduate Travel Fund Reimbursement Guidelines Research Travel Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants