Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Resources Home Resources 24/7 Virtual Resources Your career journey will take you through a continuous cycle of exploration, preparation, and action. No matter where you are on your journey, there are resources to assist you. The guide below provides a centralized place to access the many resources available to you as a Boston College student. These are virtual resources you can access 24/7 from your residence hall, home, or anywhere across the globe. Career Exploration Job and Internship Search Resume and Cover Letter Interviewing Networking Career Explorer A resource to help you discover how your interests, skills, personality and goals intersect. Get real-time recommendations on careers and industries to consider. Be sure to meet with a career coach to review your results and to determine next steps. Focus 2 Career A major and career exploration platform that will guide you through a series of self assessments. Your assessment results are then matched to career and BC-specific major options. To Access: Complete the form, new users will be required to enter the access code: Eagles. 16Personalities A resource to help you identify your personality type. Your results can guide you as you reflect on how you relate to others, how you get your energy, how you receive and organize information, and how you make decisions. What Can I Do With This Major? A resource to help show you what many people with specific majors go on to do for employment and what types of employers could potentially hire them. You will be surprised at the variety of career paths you could pursue. Firsthand (Formerly Vault) Find out what it is like to work within an industry, a company, or a profession. View the Career Guides for up to date information on a variety of careers. To gain access, please register for an account using your Boston College email address Boston College Career Outcome Data Use the Boston College Career Outcome Data to explore the types of experiences Boston College seniors pursue after graduation. The interactive outcomes dashboard allows you to explore first destinations of graduates by school, major, industry, location, and more. Boston College Internship Data Use the Career Center's Summer Experience Dashboard to explore the types of experiences Boston College students completed over the summer. Occupational Outlook Handbook A resource that can help you find career information on duties, education and training, pay, outlook and more for hundreds of occupations. If you are wondering what job titles actually mean or how to prepare for a career in a specific industry, this is an easy to navigate tool to help you. Handshake As you look for opportunities, start with Handshake, our centralized platform where employers post positions for Boston College students. All of the top employers are hiring on Handshake, including the Fortune 500, nonprofits, and startups. You have access to 400,000+ employer profiles, which include information about their organization, peer reviews, interview tips, and open positions. You can also use your Handshake account to schedule appointments with our career coaches and find upcoming career fairs and networking events. View our Handshake Guide to get started. Eagle Exchange Eagle Exchange is an online platform that fosters connections between BC students and alumni. Making connections is a crucial part of your job and internship search. Use Eagle Exchange to reach out to alumni who work at organizations you're interested in to set up informational interviews. You're not asking for a job, instead you are looking to gain valuable advice to inform your search. You can also use Eagle Exchange to find short-term project listings from alumni to apply to. Alumni projects offer you the opportunity to gain experience, develop new skills, and boost your resume. View our Eagle Exchange guide to get started. Forage A formal internship is not the only way to gain professional experience. Projects are a great option to boost your resume/portfolio, build skills, and grow your professional network. The Forage platform offers hypothetical projects from top employers that you can complete to learn more about working in a specific field. GoinGlobal A resource for everything related to finding an international job or an internship. Browse Country and Global City Career Guides and read up on 450,000 employer profiles on companies in 196 countries, including the US. FirstHand (Formally Vault) Find out what it is like to work within an industry, a company, or a profession. View the Career Guides for up to date information on a variety of careers as well as interviewing strategies and job search tips. To gain access, please register for an account using your Boston College email address Career Clusters The Career Center has seven different career clusters to represent the broad range of Boston College student interests. Visit individual cluster pages for industry-specific job/internship/graduate school resources. Make an appointment to meet with a career cluster coach to strategize your search. Boston College Career Outcome Data Use the Boston College Career Outcome Data to explore the types of experiences Boston College seniors pursue after graduation. The interactive outcomes dashboard allows you to explore first destinations of graduates by school, major, industry, location, and more. Boston College Internship Data Use the Career Center's Summer Experience Dashboard to explore the types of experiences Boston College students completed over the summer. Internships Database Use the Career Center's Summer Experience Database to connect with students who completed internships to discuss their experiences. To access: Verify that you are logged in with your BC email address. MyVisaJobs MyVisaJobs can help you identify companies who have sponsored H1B visas and green cards in the past. It also outlines the top industries that offer sponsorship. Eagle Exchange Eagle Exchange is an online platform that fosters connections between BC students and alumni. Through Eagle Exchange you can reach out to alumni to ask for help with your resume and cover letter. Use the filters to find alumni in your area of interest who are willing to review resumes and reach out to them. View our Eagle Exchange guide to get started. Resume Template and Samples The Career Center has assembled sample resumes and a word template to assist you with crafting your own resume. Cover Letter Samples The Career Center has assembled sample cover letters to help you get started. Big Interview Build confidence in your interview skills through free access to this online platform. You can record yourself answering questions that are tailored to specific industries, roles, or skills. You can also access their library of resources, including videos on interview strategies. View their student guide to get started. To access: Click on 'Register' in the top right corner. Use your BC email address to create your account. Handshake Before you interview with an organization, be sure read through their profile on Handshake to learn more about their mission and culture. If they are a larger organization, they will also have interview tips and sample questions sourced from other students on the platform. View our Handshake Guide to get started. Eagle Exchange Eagle Exchange is an online platform that fosters connections between BC students and alumni. Through Eagle Exchange you can request to do mock interviews with BC alumni. Use the filters to find alumni in your area of interest who are willing to conduct mock interviews and reach out to them. If they currently work at the organization you're interviewing with, ask them for organization-specific advice. View our Eagle Exchange guide to get started. Consulting Interview Guide A guide created by the Carroll School of Management to assist any student with preparing for a management consulting interview. Technical Interview Guide A guide created by the Computer Science Society to help you navigate a technical interview. Eagle Exchange Eagle Exchange is an online platform that fosters connections between BC students and alumni. Use your account to find alumni mentors and set up exploratory career conversations. Search the community by major, industry, identity, job title, employer, and more. View our Eagle Exchange guide to get started. Handshake Through your Handshake account, you can connect with students and employers on the platform from a wide-variety of schools and organizations. You can search students based on organizations they have interned with. Reach out to set up an exploratory career conversation. View our Handshake Guide to get started. LinkedIn LinkedIn is a free professional social networking platform that enables you to connect with alumni and other professionals to establish new professional connections. Use the platform to research industries and set up exploratory career conversations. View LinkedIn's guide to get started. Internships Database Use the Career Center's Summer Experience Database to connect with students who completed internships to discuss their experiences. To access: Verify that you are logged in with your BC email address. Find Resources on the Career Center Blog No Summer Internship? No Problem! 5 Ways to Have a Productive Summer Beyond an Internship While internships are a great way to gain skills and explore a career field, many students seem to think that May 02, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Understanding Your AAPI Identity in the Workplace Everyone brings their own set of values and identities to their career and workplace. As someone who identifies as a April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Should I Disclose My Disability During a Job Search? Many students with a disability struggle with the question of disclosure during the job and internship search process. “Will disclosure April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Staying Positive During the Job Search Like many of life’s challenges, searching for jobs and internships can be emotionally taxing. Unlike most challenges, the effort you April 19, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Science, Technology & Engineering The Eagle Intern Fellowship (EIF) provides financial support to Boston College undergraduates with demonstrated financial need who obtain summer internships April 14, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Making a Decision on Job Offers “Congratulations, our company is pleased to offer you the position!” Receiving communication like this, whether via email or a phone, April 11, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam No Summer Internship? No Problem! 5 Ways to Have a Productive Summer Beyond an Internship While internships are a great way to gain skills and explore a career field, many students seem to think that May 02, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Understanding Your AAPI Identity in the Workplace Everyone brings their own set of values and identities to their career and workplace. As someone who identifies as a April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Should I Disclose My Disability During a Job Search? Many students with a disability struggle with the question of disclosure during the job and internship search process. “Will disclosure April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Visit Blog Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College