Kansas State University search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »DCM »K-State News »News »Phi Beta Kappa inducts new members into the academic honor society K-State News Home News K-State Today K-State in the news Seek research magazine Graduation/honor lists See all of News For Media Media Guide Experts Achievements Broadcast-ready news Photo and video guidelines Stock photos See all of For Media Resources Safety Parking Campus map See all of Resources Social Media Directory Guidelines See all of Social Media Contact Staff Share your news See all of Contact News home Archives K-State Today K-State in the news Archives Seek research magazine Graduation/honors lists K-State News Kansas State University 128 Dole Hall 1525 Mid-Campus Dr North Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-2535 media@k-state.edu Phi Beta Kappa inducts new members into the academic honor society Tuesday, May 17, 2022 MANHATTAN — The Kansas State University chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, Beta of Kansas, has inducted new members to the nation's oldest and most prestigious academic honor society. Phi Beta Kappa has more than 500,000 members. Since its founding at the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia in 1776, the society has fostered and recognized excellence in the liberal arts and sciences, and its gold key is widely recognized as a symbol of academic distinction. The K-State chapter was founded in 1974. Many U.S. presidents and U.S. Supreme Court justices belong to this highly selective honorary society. The following students are new members of K-State's chapter of Phi Beta Kappa: Justin Sievert, bachelor's candidate in finance, Bucyrus; Karrin Larson, senior in chemistry, Clay Center; Bailey Britton, senior in mass communications and English, Colby. From Greater Kansas City: Daijah Jones, bachelor's candidate in psychology, Kansas City; Alex Como, senior in art education and Spanish, Leawood; Clare Barnhart, bachelor's candidate in horticulture, and Clare Deatherage, senior in kinesiology and Spanish, both from Lenexa; Sydney Stephens, senior in kinesiology, Spanish and pre-physician assistant, Olathe; Rachel Pang, senior in chemistry, Sabrina Uriarte, bachelor's candidate in kinesiology, Spanish and pre-chiropractic medicine, and Tori Ward, senior in management and Spanish, all from Overland Park; Andrew Harrison, senior in history, political science and pre-law, Prairie Village; and Julia Coverdale, senior in anthropology and history, Shawnee. Sydney Tucker, bachelor's candidate in interior design and art, Havana; Korey Kneisley, bachelor's candidate in political science, history and pre-law, Hiawatha; Elizabeth Scarbrough, bachelor's candidate in animal sciences and industry, Lawrence. From Manhattan: Victoria Bedros, bachelor's candidate in biology and pre-medicine; Cameron Comstock, senior inpolitical science and Spanish; Joey Crespino, junior in history; Duru Dogan, senior in political science and statistics and data sciences; and Gillian Nichols, bachelor's candidate in art. Carlean Sanders, bachelor's candidate in kinesiology and pre-medicine, Miltonvale; Karter Granzella, senior in economics and pre-law, Salina; Jade Mountain, bachelor's candidate in geology, Silver Lake; Dreah Kuckelman, senior in biochemistry, Spanish and pre-medicine, Topeka; Ender Graham, bachelor's candidate in biology, pre-medicine and Spanish, Towanda; Katie Hutson, bachelor's candidate in psychology, Westmoreland; and Nathalie Wright, junior in wildlife, conservation and environmental biology and Spanish, Wichita. From out of state: Gabi Gutierrez, senior in communication sciences and disorders and Spanish, Eden Prairie, Minnesota. From out of country: Minori Tanaka, bachelor's candidate in gender, women, and sexuality studies, Japan. News tip Bucyrus, Clay Center, Colby, Havana, Hiawatha, Kansas City, Lawrence, Leawood, Lenexa, Manhattan, Miltonvale, Olathe, Overland Park, Prairie Village, Salina, Shawnee, Silver Lake, Topeka, Towanda, Westmoreland and Wichita, Kansas; and Eden Prairie, Minnesota. Website Phi Beta Kappa, Beta of Kansas Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 5/17/22