Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Need help making a gift? Call 866-419-6768 Iowa State Logo Give Now Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Search Content: Home News and Stories News View: All Current Monthly Weekly Display Filter: Active Archive Kinzenbaw Gift Provides Support for Research and Student Scholarships in Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering Through a generous gift from Jon E. and Marcia A. Kinzenbaw of Williamsburg, Iowa, the Iowa State University Department of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering has established support for students studying technical agriculture, women studying agriculture engineering and technology, and faculty research in agricultural and biosystems engineering. Iowa State University Dedicates Stanley L. Balloun Turkey Teaching and Research Facility Made possible through private gifts, the facility honors Iowa State professor and industry expert. On May 9, Iowa State University’s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences dedicated the new Stanley L. Balloun Turkey Teaching and Research Facility, the only facility of its kind focused on turkey production at a major university. Iowa State University Foundation to Honor Alumni and Friends for Outstanding Contributions The Iowa State University Foundation will recognize the outstanding contributions of alumni and friends of Iowa State University with its most prestigious honors during the annual Distinguished Awards Celebration to be held at 2 p.m. on Friday, April 29, at Iowa State University’s Memorial Union. The event is open to the public. Farm Credit Services of America gift establishes endowed chair in ag business at Iowa State University A generous gift commitment from Farm Credit Services of America (FCSAmerica) has established the Ron and Lynn Deiter Endowed Chair for Sustaining Excellence in Agricultural Business at Iowa State University, honoring the work of professor emeritus Ron Deiter. A medallion ceremony formally installing teaching professor of economics Amani Elobeid as the inaugural holder of the endowed position will be held at 10:15 a.m. on Tuesday, May 3, in the Gallery Room at the Memorial Union on the Iowa State campus. Study Abroad Scholarship Honors Iowa State University Graduate With a charitable gift from the Embassy of the United Arab Emirates in Washington, D.C., Iowa State University has established a study abroad scholarship in the memory of Maktoum Al Seiari, a 2019 chemical engineering graduate. Forever True Day – Show Your True Colors for Iowa State! Are you ready to show your true colors for Iowa State? Kiewit Corporation Establishes the Kiewit Scholars at Iowa State University Kiewit Corporation based in Omaha, Nebraska, has provided a gift commitment to establish the Kiewit Scholars at Iowa State. The program will support students in the Iowa State University College of Engineering who have an interest in and passion for the construction industry. Gift establishes the Vikram L. Dalal Professorship in Electrical and Computer Engineering Distinguished Professor Vikram Dalal, along with his former students and several corporations, have provided a gift to establish the Vikram L. Dalal Professorship in Electrical and Computer Engineering at Iowa State. The professorship honors Dalal, who has been with the ISU Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECpE) since 1988. Debbie and Jerry Ivy College of Business Celebrates Opening of Gerdin Business Building Addition The Iowa State University Debbie and Jerry Ivy College of Business recently celebrated the opening of the new Gerdin Business Building expansion, which was made possible thanks to a lead gift commitment of $7 million from the Gerdin Charitable Foundation, along with more than $12 million from other generous donors. The $1.5 million gift from Steven G. King and Susan Boren King will Advance Iowa State University’s Department of Landscape Architecture Steven G. King and Susan Boren King of Wayzata, Minnesota, have provided a $1.5 million gift to establish the Steven and Susan King Landscape Architecture Excellence Fund in the Iowa State University Department of Landscape Architecture to support learning experiences and cultivate future generations of environmentally minded industry leaders in landscape architecture. Iowa State dedicates new Student Innovation Center Iowa State University recently dedicated its new Student Innovation Center, a highly flexible, technology-rich campus hub for project-based learning, entrepreneurship and multidisciplinary collaboration. The facility provides space for students, faculty and staff to share ideas, experiment and create new products. C.G. “Turk” and Joyce Therkildsen donate new Iowa State University Industrial Engineering Building C.G. “Turk” and Joyce A. McEwen Therkildsen have provided a $42 million gift commitment to Iowa State University’s Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering for a new facility that will provide technologically enhanced learning and research laboratory spaces where industrial engineering students can gain the knowledge to design tomorrow’s innovative, nimble and intelligent processes needed now more than ever across all industrial sectors. Iowa State launches fundraising campaign for faculty position honoring John Patience, leader in swine nutrition The Iowa State University department of animal science is excited to announce the creation of the Dr. John Patience Animal Nutrition faculty position honoring John Patience, professor emeritus and global leader in swine nutrition education and research. Alumni and friends make long-lasting impact through Forever True, For Iowa State campaign Madisyn Rostro knows the impact of the $1.542 billion that alumni and friends of Iowa State University gave through the Forever True, For Iowa State campaign. Robert McQueeney awarded inaugural John and Mary Weaver Professorship Robert McQueeney, professor of physics and astronomy at Iowa State University and senior scientist at Ames Laboratory, has been named the inaugural John and Mary Weaver Professor of Physics in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. Iowa State University Foundation Board of Directors names Richard Mahoney as chair The Iowa State University Foundation announces that Richard Mahoney of Bainbridge Island, Washington, has been appointed chair of the organization’s board of directors, and two current members will serve as officers. In addition, Dee Vandeventer of Cedar Falls, Iowa, will become a new member. The appointments became effective July 1. Bergstrom Foundation commits $5.3 million to increase student diversity at Iowa State University’s Debbie and Jerry Ivy College of Business The Bergstrom Foundation, the charity founded by Kelley and Joan Bergstrom of Key Colony Beach, Florida, recently committed $5.3 million to establish the Bergstrom Achievement Scholarship Program and help ensure students with a range of backgrounds have access to higher education at Iowa State University’s Debbie and Jerry Ivy College of Business. This is the largest cash gift for a scholarship in the history of the Ivy College of Business. Yoons’ gift establishes the Dr. Thomas D. McGee and Dr. Ick-Jhin Rick Yoon Department Chair in Materials Science and Engineering at Iowa State University Ick-Jhin Rick and Hyohi Sandy Yoon of Irvine, California, have provided a $2 million gift to establish the Dr. Thomas D. McGee and Dr. Ick-Jhin Rick Yoon Department Chair in Materials Science and Engineering at Iowa State University. The endowed chair honors McGee, professor emeritus, who has been a presence and staple of the university for more than 70 years and a cherished mentor to many students such as Ick-Jhin Rick Yoon. Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust support helps expand research capabilities at Iowa State University The Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, has committed $400,000 to help expand the microscopy capabilities at Iowa State University, aiding the university’s research in human and animal health, reliable food production and innovative bioenergy solutions and bioproducts. Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust supports Iowa State University research related to blood disorders such as leukemia – The Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, has committed $381,385 over three years to support research at Iowa State University that could contribute to fundamental knowledge and treatment of blood disorders, including leukemia, anemia and hemoglobinopathies. Iowa State University’s Jared Anderson named inaugural holder of the Alice Hudson Professorship in Chemistry Jared Anderson, professor of chemistry at Iowa State University and faculty scientist at Ames Laboratory, has been named the inaugural holder of the Alice Hudson Professorship in Chemistry in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. The professorship recognizes a faculty member who embodies the spirit of innovation and entrepreneurial thinking and provides students the opportunity to work with premier researchers and educators. Iowa State University’s Skyler Rinker named holder of the James and Clare Frevert Ag450 Program Professorship Skyler Rinker, an assistant teaching professor in the Iowa State University Department of Agricultural Education and Studies, has been named the James and Clare Frevert Ag450 Program Professor. More than $2 million in private gifts go to Iowa State University’s new Turkey Teaching and Research Facility The Iowa State University Department of Animal Science has received commitments of more than $2 million in private donations for Iowa State University’s new Turkey Teaching and Research Facility. Gift from Farm Credit Services of America fosters student innovation at Iowa State A gift from Farm Credit Services of America (FCSAmerica) will promote College of Agriculture and Life Sciences student innovation in the new Student Innovation Center at Iowa State University. The $250,000 gift will help support technology and innovation programming within the new facility. Iowa State University’s Terry Houser named Smithfield Foods Chair in Meat Science Extension Terry Houser, associate professor and extension meat specialist at Iowa State University, has been named the Smithfield Foods Chair in Meat Science Extension. Houser was presented with the chair at a February 25 medallion ceremony hosted by Daniel J. Robison, holder of the Endowed Dean’s Chair in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. Iowa State University Department of Animal Science Announces Gifts of Equipment for the Robert T. Hamilton Poultry Teaching and Research Facility The Iowa State University Department of Animal Science has received several gifts to operationalize the pedigree room in the Robert T. Hamilton Poultry Teaching and Research Facility. Fienhage Poultry-Solutions contributed the pedigree room pens, and several farm groups within Versova, including Hawkeye Pride Farms, CenterFresh Farms and Iowa Cage-Free, donated funds for penning installation. When tallied together, these contributions provided a savings of $100,000 to the facility. In addition, Chore-Time donated hopper bottom bins that will provide feed to the pedigree room, with Goodman Classic donating the installation. Bia-Echo Foundation helps Iowa State University enhance awareness of farmland conservation practice The Bia-Echo Foundation of Palo Alto, California, has committed $1,104,788 over three years to support a faster-paced adoption of prairie strips, a farmland conservation practice, on farms across the Midwest through the work of Iowa State University’s Science-based Trials of Row-crops Integrated with Prairie Strips (STRIPS) project. College of Veterinary Medicine Receives ASPCA Grant A team of researchers, led by Dr. Joyce Carnevale, clinical associate professor of veterinary clinical sciences in the College of Veterinary Medicine, has received a $50,000 award from The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals® (ASPCA®). Iowa State University receives support from Dr. John M. Graether to advance climate science education Surgical innovator Dr. John M. Graether of Marshalltown, Iowa, has provided $2.2 million to establish the Graether Family Fund for Climate Science Advancement, which will help advance climate science education at Iowa State University and afford students the opportunity to graduate in this vital area of study and be prepared for careers in business, government, teaching and research. Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust helps Iowa State University researchers develop an at-home, quick-response test strip for coronavirus detection The Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, has committed $300,793 over two years to support an Iowa State University researcher’s group that is developing a quick-response paper test strip using saliva to detect coronavirus infection. Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust helps Iowa State University advance research in antimicrobial resistance with new instrumentation The Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, has committed $243,585 to provide state-of-the-art instrumentation that will help advance research in antimicrobial resistance, infectious disease diagnostics and more at Iowa State University. Gift to create Peterson Endowment for Geo-Construction Innovation at Iowa State University Co-founder and principal of Peterson Contractors, Inc., Gale M. “Cork” Peterson, Jr., and his family, have given a generous gift to establish the Peterson Endowment for Geo-Construction Innovation at Iowa State University’s Department of Civil, Construction and Environmental Engineering (CCEE). Iowa State University Department of Animal Science Announces Artz Chair for Faculty Excellence in Animal Science The Iowa State University department of animal science is pleased to announce that Anna Johnson will serve as the first Artz Chair for Faculty Excellence in Animal Science. Iowa Egg Council pledges additional support to the Robert T. Hamilton Poultry Teaching and Research Farm at Iowa State University The Iowa Egg Council has pledged an additional $150,000 to the Robert T. Hamilton Poultry Teaching and Research Farm at Iowa State University. Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory Groundbreaking Held Iowa State University’s College of Veterinary Medicine has long had a commitment to provide state-of-the-art diagnostic services in support of Iowa’s $32.5 billion animal agriculture industry. Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust helps establish digital scholarship laboratory at Iowa State’s Parks Library The Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, has committed $225,000 to the Iowa State University Parks Library to establish a digital scholarship laboratory, which will provide a dedicated space where students and faculty from all areas of study can collaborate and partner with library experts to use emerging research techniques and technology to engage in digital scholarship. Iowa State University Receives Heartland Challenge Grant From Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation Iowa State University received a $100,000 grant from the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation as part of the foundation’s Heartland Challenge. The grant will support the creation of a coordinated educational event series across John Pappajohn Entrepreneurial Centers and other campus economic development units in Iowa to better prepare university-affiliated entrepreneurs for launch and investment. Legacy of Lifelong Pottawattamie County Resident to Provide Scholarships for Iowa State University Students in Agriculture and Life Sciences An Iowa Century Farm donated by a lifelong Pottawattamie County resident, Barbara J. Green, to the Pottawattamie County Community Foundation in Council Bluffs, Iowa, will provide annual scholarships for students enrolled in the Iowa State University College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust helps Iowa State University advance research frontiers with new imaging technology The Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, has committed $492,088 to provide advanced microscopy technology that will aid Iowa State University researchers in their work to improve human and animal health and sustain the agricultural crop yields that feed the world. ISU’s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Names Carmen Bain as Associate Dean of Academic Innovation An Iowa State University sociology professor has been named the associate dean for academic innovation in Iowa State’s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. Iowa’s Regent Universities Establish Student Emergency Assistance Funds Iowa State University, the University of Iowa, and the University of Northern Iowa launch funds in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. $2 Million Gift from Leading Ag Organizations Supports Iowa State University Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory Project The Iowa Pork Producers Association and the Iowa Farm Bureau Federation have each committed a gift of $1 million to help enhance the animal health, food safety, public health and competitiveness of Iowa’s animal agricultural industries. Iowa State’s Richard Gates Named Iowa Egg Council Endowed Professor Richard Gates, director of the Egg Industry Center at Iowa State University, has been named the Iowa Egg Council Endowed Professor. Iowa State Dedicates Robert T. Hamilton Poultry Teaching and Research Farm Iowa State University dedicated the new Robert T. Hamilton Poultry Teaching and Research Farm south of Ames on March 5. NEW Cooperative Contributes to Iowa State University’s New Feed Mill NEW Cooperative has committed a $350,000 gift to Iowa State University’s feed mill and grain science complex, the latest organization to commit to the facility. Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust supports Iowa State University program for K-12 teachers The Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, has committed $253,248 to support Iowa State University’s Research Experiences for Teachers program. Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust to help advance Iowa State University’s research related to childhood respiratory virus The Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, has committed $350,125 to advance the research of the role vitamin A plays in boosting the immune system’s response to respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), a leading cause of respiratory disease in infants and young children worldwide. $3 million Kingland gift supports expansion to the Gerdin Business Building at Iowa State University Kingland, based in Clear Lake, Iowa, and David and Deb Kingland recently committed $3 million in support of an expansion to the Gerdin Business Building at Iowa State University. Iowa State University holds ribbon-cutting ceremony for renovated space at Parks Library Iowa State University held an official ribbon-cutting ceremony on Wednesday, Oct. 30, to mark the completion of a $1.2 million renovation of the first-floor commons area at Parks Library. Savencia Cheese USA establishes scholarship to honor first woman to receive dairy science degree from Iowa State University Savencia Cheese USA has established the Dorothy Demeter – Savencia Cheese USA Undergraduate Scholarship, honoring the first woman to receive a dairy science degree from Iowa State University and highlighting the potential of women to succeed in dairy foods careers. Iowa State University Foundation Presents 2019 Emerging Philanthropist Award David and Christine Slump of Weston, Connecticut, have been awarded the 2019 Order of the Knoll Emerging Philanthropist Award. This award recognizes individuals or couples who have provided philanthropic support and creative leadership to the Iowa State University Foundation and Iowa State University through the advancement of philanthropy. Home Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are Careers Iowa State Highlights Reasons to say "THANK YOU" $1,542,356,968 Since the start of the Forever True, For Iowa State campaign, donors like you helped us exceed our historic $1.5 billion goal! “Scholarship support enhances my time at Iowa State and allows me to see the world while also gaining an amazing education.” - Margaret Leligdon, Junior, Civil Engineering Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are 2505 University Boulevard, P.O. Box 2230, Ames, Iowa 50010-2230, 866.419.6768. Copyright ©2016, Iowa State University Foundation. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Back to Top