Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary FOSTER SCHOOL OF BUSINESS BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 I BUS 300 Introduction to Global Business (4) Prepares students to understand the most important aspects of the international political economy. Emphasis on the important relationships among nations and business and economic institutions that influence students' performances as managers, consumers, and citizens. Prerequisite: ECON 200. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 300 I BUS 330 Global Business Strategy in Emerging Markets (4) Explores challenges and opportunities involved in doing business in emerging and developing markets. Topics include: analysis of foreign economic, cultural and political environments; market entry decisions; competitive strategies; management of risks; roles of technology, trade policy, macroeconomic and exchange rates. Prerequisite: I BUS 300 or JSIS 222; may not be repeated. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 330 I BUS 340 Global Business Strategy in Developed Markets (4) Addresses strategic approaches to challenges and opportunities in developed markets, especially those in Europe and Asia. Topics include: analysis of competition; leveraging competitiveness advantages; analysis of political and regulatory environment; responses to technological change. Prerequisite: I BUS 300 or JSIS 222; may not be repeated. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 340 I BUS 440 Business in Asia (4) Major aspects of the Asian business environment and how Asian enterprises are managed. Problems and opportunities of foreign corporations in Asia. Prerequisite: I BUS 300; may not be repeated. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 440 I BUS 461 Science, Technology, and Innovation in East Asia: Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and China (5) I&S Marie C Anchordoguy Role of state and technological change in economic development. Analyzes state and corporate policies historically. Technology concepts, institutions, and policies in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and China. Examines sources of Asia's rise in world of technology and explores conditions for its successful continuation. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 472. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 461 I BUS 462 Japanese Business and Technology (5) I&S Anchordoguy Examination of Japan's postwar enterprise system in its historical context. Topics include corporate and financial structure, production and distribution, trade and investment policies, government-business relations, system of innovation, technological developments, prospects for the future. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 478. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 462 I BUS 490 Special Topics in International Business (1-6, max. 12) Students and faculty focus on current topics of concern. Offered when faculty, student interest, and availability allow. Prerequisite: I BUS 300. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 490 I BUS 491 CISB Track Seminar (1, max. 9) Students meet with business community leaders to discuss international aspects of their companies. Allows for networking and sharing experiences with other students as well as practicing foreign languages. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 491 I BUS 495 International Business Internship (1-4, max. 8) An internship with a company, not-for-profit organization, or government agency in an international business capacity. Prerequisite: I BUS 300. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 495 I BUS 496 Global Business Consulting (4) Offers students opportunity to apply principles, concepts and skills learned previously to a real-life business situation. Projects illustrate issues and choices facing managers operating in a global business environment, such as identification of target markets, choice of market entry strategy, building and managing a global supply chain, importing and exporting processes; working with global partners; and local laws and regulations. Prerequisite: I BUS 300 or JSIS 222; may not be repeated View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 496 I BUS 499 Undergraduate Research (1-6, max. 9) Prerequisite: I BUS 300. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 499 I BUS 520 International Trade Policy (4) Examines issues important to trade policy. Topics include trade policy basics, tariffs and non-tariff barriers, safeguards, voluntary restraints, dumping, subsidies and strategic trade theory, agricultural trade, developing country rules, regionalism, and services. Prerequisite: B A 500 or course in international economics, trade, or international finance, or permission of graduate office. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 520 I BUS 530 International Business in Less Developed Countries (4) Understanding the economic, sociocultural, and political environment in the less developed countries. Problems of international trade and investment, north-south relations, commodities, technology transfer, foreign aid, and capital flows. Prerequisite: B A 500 or course in international economics or trade or international finance, or permission of graduate office. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 530 I BUS 540 International Business in Industrialized Countries (4) Understanding the economic, sociocultural, and political environment in developed, industrialized countries. Problems of international trade and payments relations, economic integration, national policies, and supranational organizations' impact on managerial environments. Prerequisite: B A 500 or course in international economics or trade or international finance, or permission of graduate office. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 540 I BUS 545 Cases in Sustainability (4) Stearns Examines components of corporate sustainability- financial, social, and environmental - in cases and articles format. Tackles rigorous global cases using triple bottom line framework. All topics are augmented by executive experts. Students research and critique strategic and executional and intent actions of companies as they face twenty-first century challenges and shareholder demands. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 545 I BUS 550 International Business Consulting (4) Research, analysis, and report on a specific international business project with an existing organization involved with international trade. Possible tasks include identifying most viable foreign target markets, developing best market entry strategies, establishing international terms and conditions of sale, and completing a preliminary marketing or business plan for clients. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 550 I BUS 560 Multinational Business Management (4) Managerial responses to problems of international business organizations and operations. Strategy formulation in an international context; design and control of multinational organization; adaptation of management systems and policies to different economic, sociocultural, and political environments. Prerequisite: B A 500 or course in international economics or trade or international finance, or permission of graduate office. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 560 I BUS 561 Science, Technology, and Innovation in East Asia: Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and China (5) Role of state and technological change in economic development. Analyzes state and corporate policies historically. Technology concepts, institutions, and policies in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and China. Examines sources of Asia's rise in world of technology and explores conditions for its successful continuation. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 581. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 561 I BUS 562 Japanese Business and Technology (5) Anchordoguy Examination of Japan's postwar enterprise system in its historical context. Topics include corporate and financial structure, production and distribution, trade and investment policies, government-business relations, system of innovation, technological developments, prospects for the future. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 578. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 562 I BUS 570 International Study Tour (2) Educational international study tour. Includes pre-tour and post-tour activities. Prerequisite: B A 502 and permission of Foster School of Business. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 570 I BUS 572 Cross-Cultural Conversations on Contemporary Issues (1, max. 4) Creates opportunities for students from across the globe to share information and perspectives on contemporary issues important to international business. In weekly, facilitated, small-group conversations, students improve their ability to formulate and express ideas and opinions, and practice persuasion and facilitation skills. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 572 I BUS 575 Business Studies Abroad (*, max. 24) Research and study of foreign business problems in the country or countries where the firms are located. Limited to students who have the approval of their major adviser and a faculty member who has agreed to direct their work in accordance with a definite program of studies. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 575 I BUS 579 Seminar: Special Topics in International Business (2/4, max. 12) Application of international business principles to the analysis of a specific issue in trade or resource transfer, or to the business conditions in a particular country. Japan and other Pacific Rim countries are frequent topics. Prerequisite: B A 500 or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 579 I BUS 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: I BUS 600 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022