Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Division of Administration and Finance Administration and Finance right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Leadership Units Policies Business right arrow down arrow Business Core Systems right arrow down arrow Catalyst UC Flex Community Development Travel Resources right arrow down arrow Concur Travel and Expense Management Concur Training right arrow down arrow Concur FAQs Best Practice Guide Training Guides and Videos Concur SSO Login Travel Resources Contacts Policy and Travel Tools Travel Cancellation Guidance Concur Guest Account Login Environmental Health & Safety right arrow down arrow Waste Management Training right arrow down arrow Advanced Laboratory Safety Training Animal Care Safety Training Defensive Driving Training Facilities Mgmt/Construction Training Laboratory Compliance Training Principal Investigators Training Orientation & Informational Courses Emergency Procedures right arrow down arrow Work-related Injuries & Illnesses Lab Safety Resources & Documents right arrow down arrow Advisories Additional Information Frequently Asked Questions Our Mission right arrow down arrow Laboratory Safety with an Attitude Programs right arrow down arrow Occupational Safety right arrow down arrow IACUC Information Hazardous Materials Management Environmental Engineering right arrow down arrow Pollution Control Asbestos/Lead Abatement Industrial Hygiene Health & Safety Administration Contact Us Facilities Management right arrow down arrow Departments right arrow down arrow Central Receiving Grounds Housekeeping Mail Services Maintenance & Operations Moving Services Project Services Transportation Services right arrow down arrow Shuttle Services UC*Metro Program Charters and Rentals Utilities right arrow down arrow Utilities: Production Utilities: Distribution Dashboards Energy Conservation Recycling @ UC COVID-19 Information right arrow down arrow Cleaning right arrow down arrow Classroom Cleaning Office Cleaning Hand Sanitizer Stations Specialized Cleaning Tools Physical Space right arrow down arrow HVAC - Indoor Air Quality Sneeze Guard Request Process Safe Work Environment and Wellness Resources Contact Us right arrow down arrow Service Requests Join Our Team Announcements Finance right arrow down arrow Vice President for Finance Office of the Controller right arrow down arrow Accounting & Reporting Accounts Payable right arrow down arrow Vendor Form Information Purchasing & Non-Purchasing Information Asset Management Capital Finance Payroll Operations right arrow down arrow Employee Self Service (ESS) for Former Employees Payroll Calendars Stop Payment Request Form W-2 Information Office of the Treasurer right arrow down arrow Debt Management Investment Operations Tax Compliance Treasury Operations Budget Management Investment Office right arrow down arrow Endowment Impact Stories Contact Us right arrow down arrow Karl Scheer | Chief Investment Officer Sam Ekis | Investment Director Tony Caccomo | Senior Investment Analyst Doreen Clark | Investment Operations Administrator Investment Intern Program History Planning + Design + Construction right arrow down arrow Maps and Space Management right arrow down arrow Scheduling Events at the Reading Campus 2021 Intermediate Space Survey User Guide Sustainability right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Committees & Organizations Events & Programming Environmental Literacy Campus Initiatives right arrow down arrow Built Environment Energy Food Landscape Transportation Water Management Waste Diversion Purchasing Carbon Inventory & Climate Action Plan Links & Resources right arrow down arrow On-Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Tools & Guides Partners In The News Naming right arrow down arrow General Criteria Monetary Guidelines Design Standards Naming Committee Naming Request Form Vendor Information Purchasing right arrow down arrow Purchasing Contacts Information for Suppliers Contract Compliance Supplier Diversity Home » About UC » Admin & Finance » Planning + Design + Construction » Sustainability » Campus Initiatives » Transportation Set Navigation title in component Get Involved Committees & Organizations Events & Programming Events Calendar Residence Hall Conservation Challenge Uptown Waste Diversion Environmental Literacy Campus Initiatives Built Environment Energy Food Landscape Transportation Bearcat Bike Share Bike Kitchen Zipcar Water Management Waste Diversion Purchasing Carbon Inventory & Climate Action Plan Links & Resources On-Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Tools & Guides Partners In The News Transportation Taking influence from ecosystem ecology where diverse natural systems are the strongest and most resilient, the University offers a diverse array of transportation options to students, staff, and faculty that promote sustainability through reducing its carbon footprint, building community, and saving individuals money. UC provides the community with a car-sharing service, ride-sharing service, campus bike workshop, campus bike share system, city bike share system, EV charging stations, free shuttles, and subsidized bus passes through Cincinnati Metro. Through providing the campus community with a diverse array of alternatives to the personal automobile, the University strives to provide its community with options that are more environmentally, socially, and economically sustainable to the personal, conventional automobile. UC Sustainability Features Map | West Campus UC Sustainability Features Map | East Campus Active Transportation Options Bearcat Bike Share The Bearcat Bike Share is a free service for students, staff, and faculty that allows individuals to check out bikes free for from the Bike Kitchen for up to a week. Through the Bearcat Bike Share system, UC provides encourages biking as safe, healthy, and sustainable form of transportation. Bike Kitchen The Bike Kitchen is a free service provided to the community by the Office of Sustainability at the University of Cincinnati that offers repair services, tune-ups, and workshops that are free to the community. The Bike Kitchen seeks to promote bicycle culture, safety, and accessibility as a sustainable form of transportation that builds community and fosters healthy lifestyles. The Bike Kitchen is located at 101 West Daniels St. by Dabney Hall. UC Shuttle Systems UC offers a variety of free shuttle services to students, staff and faculty. To learn more about the various routes that are offered, visit this map. NightRide NightRide is a free nighttime shuttle service provided to the UC campus community to provide safe and reliable transportation to and from locations within a one mile radius around the UC campus. Call 513-556-RIDE to schedule a ride every day 8pm - 5 am. Last call for rides is taken at 4:30am. UC*Metro UC*Metro is an agreement between UC and the Southwest Ohio Regional Transit Authority, which operates the region's Metro bus service. The EZ Ride Fare Card, is open to students, staff, and faulty. The program allows members of the UC community to take local bus transportation at a substantial discount! The card itself is free and secures you $1 rides and 50-cent transfers. Visit UC's Metro Page for more information or to register, Nervous about riding the bus? Not sure exactly what to expect? Check out this informative guide for new riders. Electric Vehicle Charging Stations The University of Cincinnati has four electric vehicle charging stations. A valid University of Cincinnati parking permit is required to use the standard charging stations at Clifton Court Garage Panzeca Way (roadway that runs behind the west side of Eden Garage) Corry Garage The fast charging station is open to anyone and is located on Daniels Street, next to Daniels Hall. Transit Authority of Northern Kentucky (TANK) TANK is the regional bus service of Northern Kentucky. It extends into downtown Cincinnati and can be taken to the Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport (CVG) as well as many other destinations. UC does not currently have any program for discounted services from TANK. Clermont Transportation Connection (CTC) CTC is the primary provider of public transportation in Clermont County. CTC offers 3 fixed routes in addition to Dial-A-Ride services. Other Local Transportation Options Zipcar This car sharing service maintains 24-hour access for students, faculty, and staff over 18 years of age to reserve a car by the hour or by the day. It provides the convenience of a car without the hassle. Membership is open to all UC faculty, staff, and students. There are currently 6 Zipcars located on UC's main campus and 1 Zipcar on East Campus. Gohio Commute UC students, faculty, and staff can sign up to participate in Gohio Commute to find carpooling partners. UC Parking Services UC Parking Services operates many parking garages and lots for commuting students, faculty, staff, and visitors. Parking Services has also initiated a number of programs promoting sustainability on campus. Some of those programs include: Reserved hybrid parking stalls on Levels 2 and 5 in Eden Garage. Reserved stalls for ride share vans and carpooling vehicles in CCM, Varsity Village, Woodside and Campus Green Garages. Parking areas reserved for motorcycles located throughout the University campus. Multi-use, plug-in stations for electric vehicles in the Varsity Village Garage. Parking Services is currently evaluating additional plug-in station locations. Taxis The City of Cincinnati keeps a public record of all taxi companies registered with the city as well as the number of licenses and the phone numbers for each company. Red Bike Red Bike is a Bike Share program with 50 stations in Cincinnati, Covington, Newport, and Bellevue. It is designed for short, point-to-point trips, increasing mobility for residents, workers, students, and visitors. Intercity Transportation Options GoBus GoBus service from Cincinnati to Athens now stops at UC in two locations. The route stops on Main Campus at West University Avenue and Commons Way, across from Schneider Hall. GoBus also stops at UC East off Route 32 in Batavia. Visit the GoBus website for more details. Megabus This intercity bus service offers daily trips from downtown Cincinnati to Columbus, Indianapolis, Chicago, Atlanta, Buffalo, Chattanooga, and Knoxville. Beginning January 9, 2013, Megabus will stop on campus at West University Avenue and Commons Way en route to Indianapolis, Chicago, and Columbus. Barons Bus This intercity bus service offers trips from Cincinnati to Detroit and Buffalo, with stops at several cities in between, including Oxford, Columbus, Akron, Indianapolis, Ft. Wayne, and Toledo. Buses stop at both UC's Uptown Campus and downtown Cincinnati. GotoBus GotoBus, also referred to as the Chinatown Bus, runs a daily, non-stop route from Cincinnati to New York City for $50. Buses leave from Sharonville, OH, near the intersection of I-275 and I-75. Greyhound This bus service has routes to Atlanta, Dayton, Detroit, Chicago, Cleveland, Columbus, Orlando, Toledo, and many more cities. Some routes leave from the UC campus and others from the downtown Reading Road station. Greyhound offers a "Student Advantage" card for frequent travelers. Amtrak Amtrak is a passenger rail service that leaves from Union Terminal and travels between Chicago, Indianapolis, Washington, D.C., and New York City with stops in between. The Cardinal Line travels through Cincinnati. Student discounts are available through membership on the website. CVG Airport The Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport offers 180 daily departures to regional, national, and international destinations. Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top