Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Global home Global learning in our colleges and schools Global partnerships Office of Global Affairs UW Global Travel UW Study Abroad Make a gift About the map Menu Global home Global learning in our colleges and schools Global partnerships Office of Global Affairs UW Global Travel UW Study Abroad Make a gift Home A Global University About the map Learn more This map illustrates the University of Washington’s global engagement. UW NetID holders can access more detailed information at the UW Profiles Global Dashboards. Have questions or feedback? Email uwoga@uw.edu. Map key International students This visualization shows the number of UW international students by country of origin during the last completed academic year. Students with UW-sponsored visas are included in this map. Study abroad This visualization shows the number of students who studied abroad in each country during the last completed academic year. Alumni This visualization shows UW alumni living in each country outside the U.S. This is a complete set of all alumni. Research and publications This visualization shows global engagement and collaboration in research. It represents the following two datasets: Research publications with a co-author at an institution outside the United States, identified using open source data from the Microsoft Academic Graph. Research awards with an international component, as identified by the investigator in UW SAGE. At the time of proposal, the investigator indicated on the eGC1 that project work will be performed internationally and selected a related country. Funds were not necessarily spent internationally. In the future, we hope to provide more detailed information about individual projects and publications, as well as faculty affiliations. Population Health This visualization shows global engagement and collaboration in research related to the UW’s Population Health Initiative. It refines the research and publications data set (see above) to include research and publications relevant to the five areas of focus for the Population Health Initiative: Education and capacity building Diagnostics and critical assessments Developing and testing innovations Implementation science Strategy and planning As specified by the Population Health Initiative, it includes the research and publications completed by faculty and researchers from the Population Health Resource Directory, as well as all those with appointments in relevant colleges, schools and departments identified by the initiative. Data sources Partners from across the University worked together to make this project possible, including the Office of Global Affairs, UW Information Technology – Enterprise Data Services, Office of Planning & Budgeting – Institutional Analysis, University Advancement and the Office of Research. The publications data in the research and publications visualization is powered by the Datalab, a nexus for research on Data Science and Analytics at the UW iSchool. The data comes from Microsoft Academic Graph. Institutional data comes from the UW Information Technology – Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW). Using the map The four visualizations represent global trends in the following areas: International students, study abroad, alumni, research and publications, and Population Health. Click on a button above the map to view a particular visualization. Hover over a country to learn more. To learn about a particular country in detail, type the name of any country into the search bar at the top left. Hover over the icon to read stories or learn about alumni communities. Have questions or feedback? Email uwoga@uw.edu. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA