Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Statistics and Data Science MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Statistics and Data Science MS Apply Events Request More Info Statistics and Data Science MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Statistics and Data Science Hone the predictive analytics skills needed to join the next generation of elite data analysts with the Master of Science in Statistics and Data Science in Temple University’s Fox School of Business. This 30-credit graduate degree utilizes an innovative curriculum with classes offered in-person on Temple's Main Campus. Students have the option to earn their degree on a part- or full-time basis, depending on their professional schedules. Through completing this degree, master’s students gain advanced expertise in the use and application of cutting-edge analytical tools and software to collect, analyze and interpret data. Other skills gained through this program include the ability to effectively communicate insights and results of analyses in managerially relevant terms; explain the applications, assumptions and limitations of data science models and techniques; obtain information and insight from large, high-complexity datasets; and understand the fundamental methods behind and usage of descriptive, predictive and prescriptive analytics. In the rapidly changing world of analytics and data science, employer demand for analytics-enabled graduates continues to grow, including an increased demand for graduates with a wide array of analytics skill sets. The Master of Science in Statistics and Data Science is intended for any highly motivated student with a background in linear algebra and programming seeking a more technically challenging program offering additional computational and mathematical skills. Request Information Learn more about the Statistics and Data Science MS program. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Learn More Explore all of the specialized master's programs at Fox. Request Information Apply Learn More Real-World Capstone As part of the final steps toward completion of the program, students will participate in a capstone course that integrates real-world problems into their curriculum. Typically a sponsoring corporation will provide a problem and real data, and students will estimate, evaluate, communicate and identify analytic solutions to these problems. Some students may work on problems associated with their job, while others will work in teams as consultants to a sponsoring corporation. Students may also choose to write a thesis on a topic in Statistics and Data Science to fulfill their capstone experience with the permission of the academic director. Choosing between the Statistics and Data Science MS and the Business Analytics MS In the rapidly changing world of analytics and data science, employer demand for analytics-enabled graduates continues to be strong, especially for graduates with a wide array of analytics skills. Temple’s Master of Science in Business Analytics focuses on graduating “translators”—analytics-focused professionals who can translate between business problems and analytic solutions. However, there is also robust demand for “super analysts”—professionals who have stronger and deeper predictive analytics skills. The Statistics and Data Science MS is meant for this latter group, offering an educational option for students who might want a more modern and data-focused experience. Classes & Curriculum Core courses you will take as part of the 30-credit Master of Science in Statistics and Data Science include Applied Statistics and Data Science, Data Wrangling and Curation, Design and Analysis of Complex Experiments, High Dimensional Inference for Data Science, and Statistical Methods I. Learn more about required courses within the Statistics and Data Science MS program. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration PhD Business Analytics MS Statistics MS Statistics PhD Related Graduate Certificates Business Analytics Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,142.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,276.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Rachel Brown is the assistant director of MBA and MS degree programs. Phone: 215-204-5766 Email: rachelbrown@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Fox graduate students can participate in Global Immersions. They are destination-focused learning experiences that allow graduate students to engage with a different country's culture, language and business practices. Global Immersions expose students to comparative business environments, global business in emerging markets, global companies working to solve crucial problems, intensive and diverse learning experiences, and international innovation and entrepreneurship. Previous destinations include China, India, Latin America and South Africa. Recent participating companies include Black and Decker, BMW, Deloitte, Microsoft and SanDisk. Learn more about Global Immersion Programs. Temple also offers interested students a variety of options for pursuing internship, teaching and volunteer opportunities abroad through the Center for International Business and Research. Learn more about your options for studying or working abroad. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-SDSC-MS Additional Program Information School/College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Statistics and Data Science MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info