Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Admission and Aid Brown welcomes talented, high-achieving students who contribute a wide diversity of views, experiences and perspectives. We invite you to learn more about how to join this vibrant academic community. Sub Navigation In This Section Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Visit Brown The best way to get to know Brown is to experience it — here's what you need to know to visit us in Providence, Rhode Island. Visit Brown Admission and Aid Brown welcomes talented, high-achieving students who contribute a wide diversity of views, experiences and perspectives. We invite you to learn more about how to join this vibrant academic community. Brown is renowned for its distinctive undergraduate experience rooted in its flexible yet rigorous Open Curriculum. Our campus is also home to the Warren Alpert Medical School and a wide array of master's and doctoral programs, executive education offerings and pre-college programs. 6,670 undergraduates 2,494 graduate students 567 medical students Across each and every program, we actively seek students from a wide variety of backgrounds. We value the exceptional academic talent, intellectual curiosity, individual perspectives, creativity, and other defining attributes that each student uniquely contributes to our community. Brown is a leading research university where the curiosity, creativity and intellectual joy of students drives academic excellence. Undergraduate Admission Learn more about Brown and how to apply as a freshman or transfer student. Graduate Admission Brown University's Graduate School offers 51 doctoral programs and 33 master’s programs, including those of the School of Engineering, the School of Public Health, and the School of Professional Studies. Brown prepares graduate students to become leaders in their fields inside and outside of the academy. Medical School Admission Brown’s renowned Warren Alpert Medical School offers an integrated medical curriculum alongside immersive clinical experiences, as well as combined master's and doctoral degree programs. Executive Education Designed to advance the careers of accomplished professionals from across the globe, executive master’s degrees are offered through the School of Professional Studies. Pre-College Programs Brown Pre-College Summer Programs are unique opportunities for motivated, responsible young people to experience university-level life and learning on campus or in a location-based environment. Additional Programs Brown provides students with distinctive opportunities to undertake their studies in rigorous and challenging ways. Each of these programs requires its own application for participation. Additional Programs Brown-RISD Dual Degree Program in Liberal Medical Education Resumed Undergraduate Education Certificates and Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid and Graduate Support A broad range of generous financial aid initiatives ensures that Brown is affordable for families from all economic backgrounds. We meet the full demonstrated financial need of every undergraduate student, guarantee five years of support for doctoral students and offer a range of financial aid initiatives to support master's students. Learn More About Financial Aid and Graduate Support Additional Resources Visit Brown Campus Map Driving & Parking Information Visitor Accommodations Campus Safety Report Net Price Calculator Visit Brown The best way to get to know Brown is to experience it — here's what you need to know to visit us in Providence, Rhode Island. Visit Brown Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Admission and Aid Open details for Admission and Aid Bookmark this Page