Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Don’t Miss Your Chance at an SMU Education Get ready for jobs that don’t yet exist. Prepare for an evolving world by graduating with multiple competencies and activating new skills. Also in Transfer Scholarships Dates and Deadlines Pathway Guides Equivalency Tools International Transfers How credits transfer Transfer Application Requirements #1 Completion of a full semester after high school graduation. #2 Completion of 24 transferable credits* with a 2.7 GPA. The Admission Committee will consider the academic rigor of both the high school and college record for students with less than 24 transferable credit hours. #3 Completion of college-level math course or high school math sequence such as algebra I and II and geometry within the past 3 years. Important Dates and Deadlines Application Opens Application Deadline Spring Entry August 1 November 15 Summer Entry November 1 June 1 Fall Entry November 1 April 1 – Recommended Transfer Scholarship Deadline August 1 – Final Deadline Transfer Application Checklist Apply for admission via SMU’s Online Application, the Common Application, ApplyTexas or MyCoalition. Apply Online via the SMU App, Common App, Apply Texas, or the MyCoalition Application. Pay $60 Non-refundable Application Fee. Payment can be made on your SMU Status Page or before submitting your admission application. Contact your Transfer Admission Counselor to request an Application Fee Waiver. Submit Official College Transcripts. Submit official transcripts from all colleges and universities attended (including dual/concurrent coursework completed in high school). All international transcripts will require a professional evaluation. View all transcript submission options. Submit Final High School Transcripts or GED. HS Transcripts must list a graduation date. They can be emailed to ugadmission@smu.edu. Demonstrate English Proficiency We require all applicants whose native language is not English or entire secondary education was not administered in English to adequately demonstrate English competency as a part of the application process. SAT or ACT Scores Submit official SAT or ACT scores (if you have fewer than 24 transferable hours to SMU). SMU won’t require standardized test scores for 2021 undergraduate applicants. We want to ease your mind about applying to SMU. Essay, Resume, and Letters of Recommendation. Submit extracurricular resume, personal essay, and letters of recommendation as part of your application or to ugadmission@smu.edu (optional, but encouraged for scholarship consideration). Check Your Status Check your application status on your SMU Status Page. Join the Mustang Family If admitted, review your next steps on our Admitted Transfer Student Page. Transfer Scholarships We invest in the best and the brightest, if you’re seeking your first undergraduate degree and have at least 50 transferable credit hours, you are automatically considered for most of SMU’s generous transfer scholarships when you apply to SMU. These scholarships are renewable for up to five terms as a full-time student with a 3.0 SMU cumulative GPA. Don’t lose out. Apply to SMU today. With a 3.7 minimum transferable GPA and 50 transferable credit hours, you are eligible for: North Texas Community College Scholarship Highly competitive scholarship Full-tuition scholarship for fall entry Essay and two to three letters of recommendation required Open to transfer students from community colleges in Dallas, Tarrant, Collin, Trinity Valley and Navarro counties This scholarship requires a separate application; click here to learn more. Honor Transfer Scholarship Automatic consideration with application for half-tuition scholarship for fall, spring or summer entry With a 3.5 minimum transferable GPA and 50 transferable credit hours, you are eligible for: Transfer Merit Scholarship $3,000 scholarship per academic year for fall, spring or summer entry Phi Theta Kappa (PTK) This is a supplemental scholarship for fall or spring entry for active PTK members. This scholarship requires a separate application and two letters of recommendation; click here to learn more. Transfer students can apply for need-based aid through the FAFSA and the CSS Profile. 2019 - 20 New Transfer Student Financial Packages Type of Aid Scholarships & Grants Need-based Loans Student Employment Average Package $36,634 $4,114 $3,707 Package Ranges $1,019 - $83,541 $556 - $5,500 $1,400 - $5,000 % of Students 70.1% 28.5% 18.6% 2020 - 21 Estimated Costs Tuition & Fees $58,540 Average Housing & Dining $17,110 Total $75,650 We work hard to attract the best students, regardless of their financial backgrounds. $151 million+ In scholarships awarded last year. 72% Of undergraduates graduate without debt. 1 of only 300 Schools that are worth the investment, according to Forbes’ Best Value Colleges 2019. 70% Of new transfer students receive an average package of $36,634 in scholarships & grants. Transfer Your Coursework Our Transfer Pathway Guides, also known as degree plans, will provide you with the coursework you can take for each major. Our interactive Equivalency Course Tool will help you build a report that will show you how your credits will transfer to SMU. Undergraduate Majors Hundreds of SMU undergraduates pursue two or more majors. We have you covered with more than 100 undergraduate majors and 85 minors across five nationally recognized undergraduate schools. Meet Your Admission Counselor All prospective and admitted SMU students are assigned an admission counselor. Click on their bio page to schedule a virtual 1:1 meeting and connect with your counselor. Visit SMU! Experience the Hilltop either virtually or in person. The SMU Office of Undergraduate Admission provides visit experiences specifically for transfer students every Friday. Learn about transferring to SMU by attending one of our prospective transfer student events, Transfer Preview. Apply Now Visit Us Ask How We Can Help You Finish Strong SMU Office of Undergraduate Admission Email: ugadmission@smu.edu Phone: 1-800-323-0672 or 214-768-2058 Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search