Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Earth & Environmental Sciences Menu Main Nav Earth and Environmental Sciences Earth & Environmental Sciences Contact Back Back Close About Overview Message From the Chairperson Department Values Contact Job Openings Opportunities Giving to EES News & Notes Resource Guide for Students and Staff People Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Courses Senior Thesis & Departmental Honors Study Abroad Career and Professional Development Career Resources Science Education Conferences and Organizations Fulfilling the Core Requirements Graduate Overview Ph.D. Master of Science Dual Degree Program, M.S./M.B.A. Courses Master of Science in Teaching Research Opportunities Cooperative University Program Weston Observatory Frequently Asked Questions Research Overview Facilities Weston Observatory Seminar Series Overview Past Seminar Series Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Earth and Environmental Sceinces Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Master of Science Graduate Ph.D. Master of Science Dual Degree Program, M.S./M.B.A. Courses Master of Science in Teaching Research Opportunities Cooperative University Program Weston Observatory Frequently Asked Questions Master of Science Graduate Program The M.S. program includes coursework and a research-based thesis. The curriculum is flexible, and a program that is consistent with the student’s background, and professional and research objectives, is developed by the student and his or her faculty advisory committee. Like the Ph.D. program, the M.S. program assumes a basic undergraduate foundation in the geosciences. Students lacking such a background may be required to complete certain subjects at the undergraduate level before or during their graduate program. Master’s candidates in geology or geophysics are expected to have taken two semesters (or equivalent) of a college-level physics or chemistry course before admission, and must complete, or have completed, a minimum of two semesters of college-level calculus before completing their degree. Students are encouraged to obtain broad backgrounds by taking courses in geology, geophysics, and environmental geosciences along with the other sciences and mathematics. Multidisciplinary preparation is particularly useful for students seeking future employment in industry. Deadline for fall admission is January 10. Apply Now Request Information View course offerings The program stresses a strong background in the earth sciences, as well as the ability to carry out research. It prepares students for successful careers as geoscientists in the environmental consulting and engineering industries, natural resource exploration, government service, or for continued studies toward a Ph.D. A particularly beneficial aspect of the M.S. program is the opportunity for students to integrate studies in geology, geophysics, and environmental subjects. Curriculum and Requirements No fixed curriculum is prescribed for the M.S. degree. Instead, a course and research program that is consistent with the student's background and professional objectives are developed by the student and his or her faculty advisory committee. The graduate program assumes a basic undergraduate foundation in the geosciences. Students lacking such a background may be required to complete certain subjects at the undergraduate level before or during their graduate program. A summary of the regulations for graduate students in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences as well as information for enrolled and prospective graduate students can be found in the Graduate Student Regulations and Procedures Handbook. Back To Top Back To Top Earth and Environmental Sciences Devlin Hall 213 617-552-3640 Instagram Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to the EES Department Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College