Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Engineering and Computer Science Menu Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships List of ECS Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Summer Accelerate Program Summer of Discovery Freshmen Fall Incoming Freshmen Equipment Requirements and Computer Recommendations Transfer Course Recommendations Entrance and Progression Standards ECS Scholars Program Academic Advising Meet with an ECS Advisor Advising Walk-in Hours Course Drops Academic Actions Certification for Graduation ECS Summer Courses Advising Resources Pre-Engineering Requirements ECS Course Repeat Policy Final Exam Policy Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science About Education Materials Science Faculty Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Bioinformatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Data Science major Research Computer Science About Us ABET Chair's Welcome Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Software Engineering Concentration Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Cybersecurity Concentration Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Science with Computer Science Fellows Major Online Master of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Bioinformatics Competitive Learning Cybersecurity & Networking Data Science Human-Computer Interaction Machine Learning Software Engineering VLSI Design Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair eBears Seminars Cadence University Program Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & Master of Engineering Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Biomedical Computing Engineering and Cyber-Physical Systems Material and Devices Sustainable Energy and Power Systems Wireless & Microwave Circuits & Systems Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.S. Ph.D. Research Advance Materials and Additive Manufacturing Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering Energy Systems Engineering Geriatric Engineering Humanitarian Engineering and Engineering Ethics Sustainable Engineering Thermo-Fluids Engineering Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us ABET Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.B.A. & M.E. Joint Program Master of Science Master of Engineering Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise Baylor>Engineering & Computer Science>About>News>SpaceX Intern Leading Aerospace Club to New Heights SpaceX Intern Leading Aerospace Club to New Heights April 14, 2022 Annika Moser is Aero at Baylor club president. Moser will intern at SpaceX this summer. Aero at Baylor started a 3D-printed rocket competition and plan to travel to New Mexico for an national rocket competition in 2023. Q&A with Annika Moser Junior Mechanical Engineering major from Columbia, Missouri Aero at Baylor club president SpaceX intern Undergraduate researcher Q: How did you decide on Baylor? A: Originally, my plan was to attend music school, like Boston Conservatory. I wanted to be a violinist and a pianist there; so, I was hoping to dual major in Violin Performance and Piano Performance. However, I ended up taking a very different route. At the time, I felt like the Lord was leading me down a different path. I did not think that pursing music for my career was the right choice for me. In high school, I was inclined toward math and science a little bit more; so, I decided to go for engineering. I went to Invitation to Excellence at Baylor, and I really fell in love with the professors and the school. I felt at home, so I believed that Baylor would be a great place for me to end up. I decided to compete for the engineering scholarship and won, which was exciting. Especially after that, I came to the realization that, “I think the Lord wants me here; that’s pretty clear.” It has been one of the best decisions I have ever made. Q: What student organizations are you involved in? A: The one that I’m most involved with is Aero at Baylor. It is the first and only aerospace engineering club at the University. Currently, I am the president and have been since the beginning of last spring. Since then, the club has grown tremendously. There were about six students when I became president; now, we have 150 on the contact list, and there are at least 60-70 active members. We have two active competition teams that are funded by L3Harris, a military defense company here in Waco. Also, we are working on getting funding from a couple of other companies for a rocketry program – the Intercollegiate Rocket Engineering Competition. In Aero, we do a lot of solid works modeling, 3D printing, and aerodynamics analysis. We even had an information session with NASA about the Mars rover last semester, and we will be hosting SpaceX this semester as well. It has been full speed ahead for the past year and so much fun. I love everybody that I get to work with, and it is nice to have hands-on experience outside of the classroom. Q: What has been your favorite ECS class? Last semester, I took Advanced Thermodynamics with Dr. (Lulin) Jiang. She is so cool, and I loved having her. That class was awesome. I loved learning about combustion analysis which you learn about toward the end of the class. I love chemistry; so, I really enjoyed learning about the combustion of different engines. That is the path I am hoping to go on—working in engine testing for rockets and other things like that. Q: What can you say about your upcoming SpaceX internship? A: I will be a Test Operations intern for the summer at SpaceX in McGregor, TX. I am excited to announce that I will be working on the Raptor Engine Test team. One great thing about SpaceX is that everyone is switching projects all the time, and you get to work with a lot of different people. I am really excited for that. I am fast-paced, and I like working on lots of different things; I am so excited for this coming summer. It will definitely be a challenge. The research experience I’ve had over the past few years with Dr. David Jack and the experience I’ve had in Aero at Baylor really helped me with landing the internship. I recommend that everyone gets involved in what they think they want to do right when they get to college. It makes an enormous difference getting to try out different projects and fields of study within engineering outside of the classroom. Q: What is your research experience? A: At Initiation to Excellence, I met with Dr. David Jack, the professor that has been my advisor since the beginning of freshman year. I have been working in research involving materials science and non-destructive testing since then. I would have never been able to learn about things like that in this field if I had not been involved right away as a first-year student. It was weird and difficult at first. The kindness of the graduate Ph.D. students and professors was essential in allowing me to get to where I am now. Last summer, I ran an independent research project under L3Harris completely on my own, as a sophomore. Baylor is amazing because if a student is working hard and showing that they are passionate about their work, any professor will be thrilled to give you an opportunity. I would have never had that experience anywhere else. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY'S SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND COMPUTER SCIENCE Baylor University's School of Engineering and Computer Science (ECS) prepares its students to be innovators for worldwide impact by training graduates for professional practice and responsible leadership with a Christian view. Students can choose from majors, including computer science, electrical and computer engineering, general engineering, informatics, and mechanical engineering. ECS also offers graduate programs in all areas of study within the school. We stand out from the crowd through Christian commitment, a strong community, expert accessibility, leading practical experience and teamwork. Visit Baylor.edu/ECS to learn more. Are you looking for more News? All NewsArchives About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Engineering & Computer Science One Bear Place #97356 Waco, TX 76798-7356 Computer Science One Bear Place #97141 Waco, TX 76798-7141 (254) 710-3890 ECS_Student_Services@baylor.edu Apply Give Questions for Undergraduate Programs Questions for Graduate Programs General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Academic Advising Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Research Computer Science About Us Degree Programs Research Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us Programs Research Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us Programs Research Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us Programs Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise