Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Information Technology Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Resources For I Want To Services Security and Privacy About Students Alumni Faculty Retirees Researchers Visitors Staff Access My Email Log in to LionMail Log in to ADCU Outlook Web App Log in to CUIMC Email Check CUIT Service Alerts Connect to Columbia WiFi Contact the CUIT Service Desk Download Software Log in to CourseWorks Manage My University ID (UNI) Activate My UNI or Email Change My Password Manage My Duo MFA Account Print on Campus Use Zoom View Computer and System Recommendations Visit the ServiceNow Customer Portal Academic Systems Accounts and Access Administrative Systems Cloud Services Computer Lab and Classroom Technologies Email and Calendar Endpoint Device Technologies IT Professional Services Network and Wireless Research Services Security and Risk Management Servers, Backup and Storage Service Desk Software and Apps Telephony and Communications Services Web Services Anti-malware CUIT Security Downloads Data Security Guidelines for International Travel Get Started with Computer Security at Columbia General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Handling Personally Identifying Information Keep Your Operating System Up To Date Phishing: Recognize and Report Secure Resources for Systems Administrators Using Strong Passwords Staff Directory and Org. Chart Senior Leadership Departments Locations IT Policies and Strategies IT Partners at the University Careers Columbia University Information Technology You are here: Home Security and Privacy Get Started with Computer Security at Columbia Get Started with Computer Security at Columbia These are steps you should take now, before you arrive on campus, to ensure that your computer will be as safe as possible from the rampant viruses and malware on the Internet. If you arrive with an infected computer, or if it becomes infected after you're at Columbia, you may lose access to the Internet until your computer has been cleaned. This can take hours, endanger your personal documents, and require you to reformat your hard drive and reinstall your operating system and all your applications from scratch. Although CUIT is here to help you should it be necessary, it's up to you to take the necessary precautions to secure your computer. Precautions you can take Turn on your operating system's automatic updates feature. Don't ignore it when it notifies you to install an update, especially security updates. Select a secure password for your computer that is different from your UNI password. Make sure your computer's built-in firewall is on at all times. Download Malwarebytes (free for current students). You will need your UNI and password to do this. Scan for and remove any viruses found on your computer. Develop a strategy for backing up your files regularly. Educate yourself about safe computing practices. Follow best practices on keeping your workstation secure. Don't use filesharing programs. Most distribute copyrighted material, which is against the law and Columbia's Copyright Policy. These programs also often include spyware and many downloads make your computer vulnerable to viruses. Browse Educause's updated list of legal online content alternatives that are more secure. Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Administrative OfficesStudebaker Building, 5th & 6th Floors, 615 West 131st Street · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Walk-in Center202 Philosophy Hall, 1150 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-1919 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close