Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Environmental Engineering Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Environmental Engineering Major Apply Request More Info Environmental Engineering Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Environmental Engineering The Bachelor of Science in Environmental Engineering in the College of Engineering teaches students the skills needed to design the technology and the systems that help minimize, prevent and repair environmental damage to air, land and water. Environmental engineers function at the interface between human needs and natural resource sustainability. Temple’s program teaches you to collect and analyze field data to monitor environmental safety, seek solutions and improvements aimed at minimizing effects on the environment, and design resource recovery methods. In small classes, you will learn the fundamentals of environmental hydrology and air pollution control, and how to design stormwater, wastewater and water treatment systems. You’ll also have access to cutting-edge labs with opportunities for undergraduate research. By the time you complete your degree in environmental engineering, you’ll be able to function as a designer, project planner or researcher, and be a step closer to graduate studies and professional licensure. Co-ops Cooperative education (co-op) is an optional program that can provide you with the opportunity to work professionally before graduation. Students apply the knowledge they have learned in the classroom to real-world problems in the field. A co-op will help you create valuable connections with industry professionals, build a strong résumé and have an enhanced perspective on your field. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science in Environmental Engineering offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,808.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,984.00 per year Laptop Requirement The College of Engineering requires that students own a laptop for their engineering coursework by their junior year of study. Learn more about the hardware recommendation. Related Graduate Degrees Civil Engineering MS Civil Engineering PhD Environmental Engineering Dual BS and MS Environmental Engineering MS Environmental Engineering PhD Certificate in Stormwater Management +1 Accelerated Degree Programs The College of Engineering also offers accelerated +1 dual degree Bachelor-Master programs. Qualifying students earn a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in one five-year course of study, instead of the usual six years. Environmental Engineering undergraduate majors can earn a Master of Science in Environmental Engineering in one year. Graduate courses taken as an undergraduate in this program are charged at the undergraduate rate. Learn more about the College of Engineering’s accelerated programs. Our Academic Advisors Through advising workshops, career coaching, individual appointments and walk-in advising, support services are available to all undergraduate Engineering students. Such services range from academic mentoring, career development, choosing a major, degree planning, learning support and post-graduation planning. All academic advisors are available Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., to answer questions regarding General Education (GenEd), college and major requirements, and university academic policies and procedures. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Student Affairs. Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in one or more of the College of Engineering’s 15 student groups usually also means greater success at Temple. Further, you’ll find peer support and like-minded students, and probably effect some positive change, either locally or around the world. Among other groups, students can join Engineers Without Borders, a nonprofit, humanitarian organization that partners with developing communities to provide basic needs like water and shelter through appropriate and sustainable technology. The American Society of Civil Engineers, which develops and supports their community to broaden member perspectives, enhances career growth and promotes public interest; and provides events that raise participation and involvement. See the full list of Engineering clubs and organizations. Student Competitions Each year, Temple Engineering students compete rigorously in regional and national events that celebrate design, engineering and innovation, including the Formula SAE Collegiate Design Series, the NASA Robotic Mining Competition and the Student Design Competition. Study Away Opportunities Add a global perspective to your Environmental Engineering Major. Study abroad for a summer or semester. Accreditation The College of Engineering's Environmental Engineering Major is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology. Learn more about our accreditation, program educational objectives and student outcomes. EN-ENVE-BSEN Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Environmental Engineering Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info