Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Bioengineering (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Grow human cells on aortic roots, study how replacement hips wear over time, and design implants using living and nonliving materials. These remarkable breakthroughs in technology are just a few examples of the amazing research going on in Clemson’s bioengineering labs. Through your classes and labs, you’ll gain an extensive understanding of biology, biochemistry and physiology and will graduate with the capability to apply advanced mathematics to solve the ever-increasing problems that require engineering to mix with biology. Every day, you and your professors will work side-by-side in the lab on research into how engineers — in collaboration with physicians — can support the human body to prevent and solve medical problems. FAST FACTS The U.S. Department of Labor predicts that bioengineering will see a 72 percent employment growth in the next 10 years. Clemson bioengineering researchers were instrumental in the formation of the Society for Biomaterials and have served in leadership positions throughout its history. We have numerous undergraduate Creative Inquiry research projects ranging from troubleshooting orthopedic implants to applying medical technology to the developing areas of the world. Student organizations such as Undergraduate Clemson Bioengineering Society and Alpha Eta Mu Beta offer opportunities for networking and professional development. Clemson bioengineering students engage in a clinically-driven, industry-standard capstone design experience. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Freshmen who major in engineering at Clemson are initially admitted into our general engineering program, where you’ll have a year to explore many different engineering disciplines, meet faculty from each of our engineering departments and discover which major fits your personal interests and talents. On the admissions application, you will apply as a general engineering major. Once into your core bioengineering curriculum, your classes will combine a solid background in engineering with the study of life sciences. From class to the lab, research is integral to a bioengineering career, and our students are encouraged to get involved in research projects as soon as possible. Classes include the study of EKG simulation, tissue engineering of heart valves, medical technology in the developing world and orthopaedic implants — to name a few. Bioelectrical Concentration If you opt to go the bioelectrical route, you will become skilled in inventing, improving and maintaining instrumentation and imaging technologies that allow physicians and technicians to monitor patients and perform procedures with greater accuracy and precision and less invasion. Biomaterials Concentration If you choose to specialize in biomaterials, you’ll study the development of devices from stable or biodegradable materials to replace damaged tissues. Some examples include artificial joints and growing new body parts with patient cells. Bachelor-to-Graduate Programs Jump-start your graduate degree in bioengineering (biomedical engineering) while completing your bachelor’s. In our dual-degree program, you can apply some graduate credits to both degrees. Curriculum Bioengineering: Bioelectrical Concentration, B.S. Bioengineering: Biomaterials Concentration, B.S. Similar Majors Electrical Engineering (B.S.) Materials Science and Engineering (B.S.) Mechanical Engineering (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM As a bioengineering major you’ll have numerous opportunities to do research with your classmates as well as our nationally known faculty. With chances to study abroad and network with professionals already practicing in the field, you’ll be more than ready for your next step after graduation. Join The Clemson Bioengineering Society (CBS) is a great way to network and volunteer locally as well as meet other bioengineering majors. Learn More » Travel Take your studies abroad to research positions in Singapore, Japan and Thailand and bioethics classes in Pamplona, Spain. Learn More » Creative Inquiry All undergraduates have the chance to participate in research projects such as the mathematical modeling of cell growth and looking at dental cells for tooth regeneration.Learn More » Research As scientists in training, you'll spend hours doing research in our labs and working alongside our renowned faculty. CUBEInC Work with surgeons on problems from the operating room - regenerative medicine, implant performance, biomechanics, cardiovascular disease and nanomedicine - at CUBEInC, Clemson's new hospital-campus facility in Greenville.Learn More » EUREKA! The EUREKA! program enables incoming freshman honors students to pursue research and scholarly activities with faculty across multiple disciplines before the school year begins. Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Alpha Eta Mu Beta honor society Page Morton Hunter Seminar Series PEER WISE AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Medical Sales Consultant Johnson & Johnson Manufacturing Engineer Arthrex RISE Engineer Stryker Corporation Electrophysiology Associate Abbott Technical Services Engineer Epic RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.S. Medical Physics Vanderbilt University MD Medical University of South Carolina M.S. Bioengineering Johns Hopkins University M.Eng. Bioengineering Duke University Master of Prosthetics and Orthotics Northwestern University COMMON CAREER AREAS Biomedical Engineering Bioinstrumentation Biomaterials Biomechanics Clinical Engineering Consulting Law Management Medical Imaging Medicine Orthopaedic Surgery Production Rehabilitation Engineering Research and Development Sales and Marketing Systems Physiology Teaching Tissue and Genetic Engineering FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Christopher Porter CECAS Undergraduate Recruitment Director 864-656-7870 cporter@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Bioengineering (B.S.) Electrical Engineering (B.S.) Materials Science and Engineering (B.S.) Mechanical Engineering (B.S.)