Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Secondary Nav Penn OLI Contact Us Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn OLI Courses & Programs For Faculty & Online Teams For Penn Students About Drawer Menu Penn OLI Courses & Programs Explore Back to main menu Search Offerings Learner Questions For Faculty & Online Teams Explore Back to main menu How to Create Vital Online Communities Faculty & Online Teams Questions Contact Us For Penn Students About Explore Back to main menu OLI Team Faculty Advisory Committee Explore Back to main menu Working Groups OLI News FAQs Contact Us Search Group Created with Sketch. Discover Online Learning Opportunities at Penn SEARCH PENN'S ONLINE OFFERINGS Highlights Featured Online Programs & Courses Online Graduate Certificate in Animal Welfare and Behavior Penn LPS Online Bachelor of Applied Arts and Sciences Master of Computer and Information Technology Master of Science in Nonprofit Leadership Master of Health Care Innovation Foundations of Positive Psychology Specialization Getting Started with Telehealth: Practical Considerations Doctor of Nursing Practice in Executive Leadership Program Online Graduate Certificate in Animal Welfare and Behavior The format of this graduate program allows individuals to learn, understand, and apply a variety of tools that promise to enhance their ability to improve the quality of animals' lives. Participants will discover new ways to think about animal welfare and apply it to animals. Visit program page Program Penn LPS Online Bachelor of Applied Arts and Sciences Penn LPS Online’s Bachelor of Applied Arts and Sciences is an accredited degree designed for working adults and other non-traditional students who want to pursue an online Ivy League education. In addition to the core methods and values of a liberal arts education, the online curriculum integrates professional or academic opportunities for students to apply the knowledge and skills they develop through their coursework. Visit program page Program Master of Computer and Information Technology This program brings online the long-running, established on-campus MCIT degree that empowers students without computer science backgrounds to succeed in computing and technology fields. Visit program page Master of Science in Nonprofit Leadership The Master in Nonprofit Leadership Program welcomes individuals who are bright, passionate, and energized to be transformative thought leaders, social entrepreneurs, and innovators for social impact. The world needs innovative approaches to address the world’s complex social challenges. Visit program page Master of Health Care Innovation Through Penn’s Master of Health Care Innovation, you will develop innovation and leadership skills. The curriculum, seminar programming, and speaker series webinars will build your innovation muscles: strategic learning, analytical thinking, creativity and idea generation, complex problem-solving, and innovation. Visit program page Foundations of Positive Psychology Specialization Our five-course specialization provides you with the key theories and research in the field of positive psychology as well as opportunities for application. You will gain master strategies and tools that enable individuals and organizations to thrive and apply key concepts from Positive Psychology to your personal and professional life. Visit program page Getting Started with Telehealth: Practical Considerations This course is designed to introduce practical considerations and lessons learned for the introduction of telehealth in clinical practice. We discuss technical considerations, effective communication, and evaluation tools for introducing telehealth into clinical settings. Visit program page Doctor of Nursing Practice in Executive Leadership Our program develops master’s-prepared nurses who already have leadership experience with the executive-level skills to lead systems and organizational change. Executive leadership in an ever changing and complex healthcare industry requires the knowledge and skills to revolutionize care delivery models and improve patient and organizational outcomes. Visit program page 01 / 08 Explore Search for online courses & programs, explore learning pathways, and get answers to your questions. Find Courses & Programs Search Penn's online learning opportunities. Choose the Right Option(s) for You Not sure what type of learning experience is for you? Start here. Find an Answer Explore our most frequently asked questions. OLI News See All News Penn's Implementation Science Institute and the Benefits of an Online Format by OLI Team Read More How Higher Education Reproduces Inequity by OLI Staff Read More Reflecting on Learning Together 2022 by OLI Staff Read More @PennOnline Follow Us Interested in a career in online learning? Check out this job posting from Penn Engineering! #PennOnline https://t.co/l0VHqbTtLI We’re thrilled to launch a new free course from @PennMedicine The COVID-19 Pandemic and the Use of mRNA Vaccines taught by Drew Weissm... RT @engonlinelearn: JOIN OUR TEAM! We’re looking for two part-time Assistant Course Managers. These folks will provide after-hours Tie... RT @engonlinelearn: What would you do with a master’s in Computer and Information Technology degree? Priyanka Vergadia ('11 on-campus ... Throwback to 2013 when ModPo was only in its second year and a student highlighted the course on their blog: https://t.co/V727UuGEDY Mod... Inspired by all of today's presentations! Thank you all for joining us and partaking in these meaningful conversations. #PPRS21 #PennOnl... RT @KimManturuk: Theme I'm hearing across many presentations - the pandemic has made us more empathetic and flexible in how we think abo... #PPRS21 #PademicPedagody #PennOnline #PedagogyTrack https://t.co/2nUCR1GCwb #PPRS21 #PademicPedagody #PennOnline #PedagogyTrack https://t.co/fi7HbD6oLU #PPRS21 #ResearchTrack #PennOnline #PandemicSymposium @KathyDamm https://t.co/d5h57zZD3Z FAQs OLI News Give Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Van Pelt-Dietrich Library 3420 Walnut St Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-1598 Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Contact Us Accessibility Office of the Provost