Skip to main content Alert See the latest updates on Pitt's response to the COVID-19 outbreak. College of General Studies Find People News Support CGS Search Search this site Search Toggle navigation Why CGS? Overview Meet Our Students Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Featured Student Stories Student Organizations McCarl Center About the McCarl Center Academic Success Resources Academic and Career Planning Courses Career Services Applying to CGS Academics Overview General Education Requirements Majors Health Professions Justice & Legal Studies Liberal Studies Natural Sciences Professional Communications Public Service Certificates Accounting Communication Community Health Assessment Corporate/ Community Relations Digital Media Gender, Sexuality, and Women’s Studies Information System Design Leadership Managing Health Services Programs and Projects National Preparedness and Homeland Security Nonprofit Management Writing Writing for the Professions Minors Administration of Justice Minor Legal Studies Minor Public Service Minor Flexible Course Options Online Courses Course Descriptions Program Checklists Internships Internship Policy Internship Course Options Internship Checklist & Agreement Form Featured Internships Study Abroad Study Abroad Internships Early Admission Option for Graduate Study Admissions and Aid Overview How to Apply Returning Student Application External Transfer Student Application Internal Transfer Student Application Certificate/Minor Student Application Non-Degree/Guest Student Application Tuition and Fees Scholarships and Financial Aid Transfer Credit and Advanced Standing CLEP Exams Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) Courses Placement Assessments Advising Overview Meeting with Your Advisor Current Students Selecting Your Degree Building Your Schedule Registering for Courses Classes Requiring Approval Withdrawing from Courses Understanding Your Academic Record Graduating with a CGS Degree/Certificate Academic Standards, Policies, and Integrity CGS Forms Contact Us Apply Now There's More to Your Story. Let Us Help You Tell It. We see you. With a customized educational track and one-on-one support, we help you design a learning structure within the life you have, not the other way around. Your path is waiting. Take the First Step CGS offers programs that are designed to meet the needs, capacity, and ambitions of our students. Whether you are on a traditional or non-traditional path, our diverse academic selections and flexible scheduling options will help you reach your goals on your terms. Think a world-class education is out of your reach? Think again. Explore Our Programs...-Dental Hygiene -Health Services (BA) -Health Services (BS) -Law, Criminal Justice, and Society-Media and Professional Communications-Natural Sciences-Public Service Standalone CertificatesGo Dedicated Academic Advisors “Relationship is at the core of everything I do,” says CGS academic advisor Shannon DeMateo. “Building trust and rapport leads to honest communication. I don’t have an agenda when I meet with a student—there’s no cookie cutter approach. It’s crucial to me to get to the heart of a person—to learn what their circumstances and challenges are. Hear Shannon's Story The Support You Deserve Financing that Fits YOU We know the cost of education is a concern. So we connect you to resources to make your path to a degree as affordable as possible. Advisors as Partners We don't expect you to do this alone. Our advisors are a crucial part of the student experience and in helping you meet your goals. Flexible Program Options Online learning and hybrid options mean our programs to fit into your schedule. Not the other way around. There's a plan for you. Financing that Fits YOU We know the cost of education is a concern. So we connect you to resources to make your path to a degree as affordable as possible. Advisors as Partners We don't expect you to do this alone. Our advisors are a crucial part of the student experience and in helping you meet your goals. Flexible Program Options Online learning and hybrid options mean our programs to fit into your schedule. Not the other way around. There's a plan for you. News View All News Applications Open for the Voyager Scholarship Pitt’s Dietrich School and College of General Studies launched new awards for seniors CGS Summer 2022 Internship Scholarship Application Deadline Extended CGS Summer 2022 Tuition Assistance Scholarship: Apply Now! CGS Graduation Meet and Greet, May 1, 2022 View All News Events View All Events College of General Studies College of General Studies 1400 Wesley W. Posvar Hall 230 S. Bouquet Street Pittsburgh, PA 15260 412-624-6600 cgs@pitt.edu Business hours: Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., excluding holidays Resources Office of Admissions & Financial Aid Other Campus Resources Schedule of Classes Student Payment Center Undergraduate Catalog University Registrar For Faculty CGS Faculty Resources CGS Faculty Handbook, Guides, & Forms Teaching Online at CGS Faculty Directory Revised 05/24/22Copyright 2022Office of University Communications