Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Schools and Colleges You are here Home Academics Schools & Colleges Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Few universities can match the wide range of educational choices that Temple boasts. Each of our 17 schools and colleges offers an abundance of courses and majors to inspire and challenge you. Temple University’s Schools and Colleges Art Tyler School of Art and Architecture Explore your artistic practice in the framework of a liberal arts curriculum and in close proximity to Philadelphia’s cultural offerings. Learn to situate your work in the context of art history, theory and contemporary practice. Explore new media and techniques to develop a cohesive body of work. Learn more about Tyler School of Art and Architecture programs. Business Fox School of Business Develop your leadership abilities and position yourself to participate in the evolving, increasingly digital global economy. Broaden your understanding of domestic and international business practices and hone your managerial skills at a school that focuses on entrepreneurship and the use of technology to drive innovation. Learn more about Fox School of Business programs. Dentistry Maurice H. Kornberg School of Dentistry Acquire clinical experience, develop manual dexterity and build a sound understanding of the business side of dentistry. Gain practical and diagnostic skills at Kornberg’s dental clinic, which handles more than 100,000 visits each year. Learn more about Kornberg School of Dentistry programs. Education College of Education and Human Development Combine research, best practices and real-world experience to become a leader in education. Practice your skills in Philadelphia and develop strong abilities as a teacher, administrator or educational scholar. Learn more about Temple College of Education and Human Development programs. Engineering College of Engineering Develop comprehensive research and practical skills to prepare for an engineering career or future study. Work with faculty engaged in areas of research such as artificial intelligence, network securities and water resources engineering. Supplement your research and coursework with workshops and conferences for professional development. Learn more about the College of Engineering programs. Law Beasley School of Law Prepare to practice law in any setting, and foster your commitment to public service. Develop professional skills including knowledge of the law and its role in society, legal analysis and reasoning, and law in a global context. You’ll learn the importance of service and professional responsibility, gaining skills to promote equal justice under the law for all individuals. Learn more about Beasley School of Law programs. Liberal Arts College of Liberal Arts Grow into an innovative, creative thinker with a global perspective. Engage in international and study abroad opportunities while learning to reason critically and make a positive impact on the world. You’ll learn in seminar-style classes and through independent research, internships and service opportunities. Learn more about College of Liberal Arts programs. Media and Communication Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Study the latest innovations in digital media and communication with experienced faculty members and scholars. Build a foundation of analytical and theoretical knowledge, focusing on communication and media in Philadelphia’s dynamic urban context. Learn more about the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication programs. Medicine Lewis Katz School of Medicine Prepare for a career in medical practice or research. Work with faculty members to push the boundaries of science and achieve advances in patient care. You’ll gain the theoretical and practical skills needed to become a leader in clinical practice, academia or the medical industry. Learn more about Lewis Katz School of Medicine programs. Music and Dance Boyer College of Music and Dance Advance your artistry in an inclusive learning environment where you’ll develop new insights, perspectives and practices. Learn from world-class choreographers, composers, conductors and performers, and take advantage of multiple performance opportunities. Pursue creative and scholarly work, and explore Philadelphia’s diverse cultural life. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance programs. Pharmacy School of Pharmacy Gain the knowledge and tools needed to promote innovation and progress in the pharmaceutical sciences and pharmacy practice. Supplement your studies by exploring industry opportunities available in Philadelphia—a biomedical home to many of the nation’s top pharmaceutical companies. Choose between a professional and a research-intensive degree to prepare for a career as a pharmacist or a pharmaceutical sciences researcher. Learn more about Temple School of Pharmacy programs. Podiatric Medicine School of Podiatric Medicine Train in the innovative procedures and advanced technology used by doctors of podiatric medicine. Get hands-on experience treating a variety of ages and ailments at the Foot and Ankle Institute, one of the world’s most comprehensive centers for podiatric treatment. Learn more about Temple School of Podiatric Medicine programs. Public Health College of Public Health Gain the advanced knowledge and expertise needed to navigate the rapidly changing fields of healthcare and social services. Learn in a collaborative and research-driven environment to devise wellness solutions for diverse populations. Acquire practical experience to address pressing public health and social welfare issues locally, nationally and globally. Learn more about Temple College of Public Health programs. Science and Technology College of Science and Technology Explore fundamental scientific principles, and work in the classroom, the field and the lab with faculty researchers who will challenge and inspire you. Build your research skills by testing your hypotheses in the Science and Education Research Center and get hands-on experience through internships in the region’s thriving STEM industries. Learn more about College of Science and Technology programs. Social Work School of Social Work Build the skills to improve quality of life through evidence-based solutions to complex social and economic injustices. Gain the expertise and hands-on experience through coursework, research and service. Learn to resolve societal problems and respond to constituents’ changing needs while advancing knowledge in the field. Learn more about Temple School of Social Work programs. Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Prepare for a career in hospitality, recreation, sport or tourism management in Philadelphia, a major sport and tourism hub. Acquire the practical and theoretical fundamentals of your chosen industry and gain experience and global perspective to become a key player in the field. Gain a competitive edge through faculty instruction and innovative research opportunities. Learn more about the School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management programs. Theater, Film and Media Arts School of Theater, Film and Media Arts Study acting, directing, filmmaking, set design, theater production and more through classroom learning and a variety of performance and production opportunities. Develop the experience, insight, knowledge and skills you’ll need to succeed in your craft. Prepare to join the many alumni who have gone on to high-profile careers on Broadway, on TV and in film. Learn more about the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts programs. Go back to AcademicsMore in Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.