Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu All News Breadcrumb Home News from Brown News Search News Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 All Previous Years Subscribe to our weekly newsletter 2033 Results based on your selections. University Initiatives Brown to disburse $5.4 million in pandemic relief funding to eligible students March 1, 2021 Provost Richard M. Locke outlined Brown’s distribution model for $4.8 million in federal COVID-19 economic relief funding and an additional $550,000 in University funding to ensure students are treated equitably. Read Article Open details for Brown to disburse $5.4 million in pandemic relief funding to eligible students Science and Technology Math, applied math scholars at Brown earn prestigious Simons Foundation fellowships March 1, 2021 With yearlong sabbaticals to focus on research projects, Dan Abramovich, Hongjie Dong and Benoit Pausader will use the fellowships to advance their scholarship on cutting-edge mathematics. Read Article Open details for Math, applied math scholars at Brown earn prestigious Simons Foundation fellowships Health and Medicine Quick pivots: For four researchers, COVID-19 provided immediate new possibilities March 1, 2021 When the pandemic paused some lab-based work, Brown scholars quickly pivoted to COVID-19 research, generating new studies in respected journals, funding for new pursuits, and new collaborations with a wide range of partners. Read Article Open details for Quick pivots: For four researchers, COVID-19 provided immediate new possibilities News and Events Brown welcomes graduate, medical, transfer students with second Van Wickle Gates procession March 1, 2021 With pandemic safety protocols in place, the students joined others from the Resumed Undergraduate Education and Brown-RISD Dual Degree programs for the tradition marking their official entry into the Brown community. Read Article Open details for Brown welcomes graduate, medical, transfer students with second Van Wickle Gates procession Social Sciences Through independent research, students tackle pressing social issues March 1, 2021 From Providence to Madagascar, Brown undergraduates are conducting first-hand research across disciplines to confront a wide range of social issues. Read Article Open details for Through independent research, students tackle pressing social issues Science and Technology Crisis and action: Brown researchers launch wide range of approaches to COVID-19 research March 1, 2021 Called to action, students and faculty across disciplines worked to contribute to an expansive pool of COVID-19 research projects, from contact tracing apps to DIY ventilator designs. Read Article Open details for Crisis and action: Brown researchers launch wide range of approaches to COVID-19 research Health and Medicine Health experts at Brown become national voices in battle against COVID-19 March 1, 2021 Throughout the chaos and confusion of the COVID-19 pandemic, Drs. Ashish Jha and Megan Ranney offered clear, concise commentary to households nationwide. Read Article Open details for Health experts at Brown become national voices in battle against COVID-19 Arts and Humanities Digital scholarship initiative brings new life to research topics in the humanities March 1, 2021 With new Mellon Foundation grant, Brown will advance its foray into digital scholarship, starting with 'Furnace and Fugue.' Read Article Open details for Digital scholarship initiative brings new life to research topics in the humanities Social Sciences Amidst unrest, CSREA leads community in crucial conversation March 1, 2021 Brown’s Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America has carved out a critical role in dialogue and research. Read Article Open details for Amidst unrest, CSREA leads community in crucial conversation Social Sciences Brown sociologist investigates racial gap in treatment of students March 1, 2021 As a 2020 William T. Grant Scholar, Brown sociologist Jayanti Owens embarks on a five-year research plan to study how race impacts teachers’ perceptions of student behavior. Read Article Open details for Brown sociologist investigates racial gap in treatment of students Science and Technology Researcher delves into the big world of tiny nanocrystals March 1, 2021 In his lab at Brown, Assistant Professor of Chemistry Ou Chen is turning tiny artificial particles into building blocks for energy harvesting, cancer detection and more. Read Article Open details for Researcher delves into the big world of tiny nanocrystals Science and Technology Brown's ICERM reimagines what mathematics can be March 1, 2021 The Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics — one of just six U.S. mathematical institutes — takes novel approaches in discovery, research and presentation. Read Article Open details for Brown&#039;s ICERM reimagines what mathematics can be University Initiatives $20 million in new giving marks growing support for diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives at Brown February 26, 2021 With continued momentum in support of Brown’s diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives, new BrownTogether gifts and grants are catalyzing research on race and inequity, and supporting students from underrepresented groups. Read Article Open details for $20 million in new giving marks growing support for diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives at Brown Health and Medicine Dr. Ashish Jha testifies before Congress on nation’s bumpy COVID-19 vaccine rollout February 26, 2021 In reviewing the mistakes and successes of vaccination efforts, the dean of Brown’s School of Public Health of advised members of the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee on how to improve vaccine distribution in the months ahead. Read Article Open details for Dr. Ashish Jha testifies before Congress on nation’s bumpy COVID-19 vaccine rollout News and Events Student-organized Fashion Week boasts can’t-miss lineup of preeminent fashion industry leaders February 25, 2021 Held virtually over the span of nearly three weeks, [email protected]’s annual event may look different this year, but organizers lined up an award-winning slate of designers, journalists, business leaders, models and more. Read Article Open details for Student-organized Fashion Week boasts can’t-miss lineup of preeminent fashion industry leaders News and Events Brown launches Lemley lecture series with spring speakers Jennifer Doudna, Isabel Wilkerson February 25, 2021 The Nobel Prize-winning scientist and Pulitzer Prize-winning writer will join the Brown community virtually in separate March and April events as the inaugural speakers in the Lemley Family Leadership Lecture Series. Read Article Open details for Brown launches Lemley lecture series with spring speakers Jennifer Doudna, Isabel Wilkerson Arts and Humanities New textbook illuminates African American scholars’ centuries-long crusade for true democracy February 25, 2021 “African American Political Thought,” co-edited by Brown political scientist Melvin Rogers, reveals the outsize impact many Black thinkers, from Frederick Douglass to Angela Davis, have had on American society. Read Article Open details for New textbook illuminates African American scholars’ centuries-long crusade for true democracy Science and Technology Apollo rock samples capture key moments in the Moon’s early history, study finds February 24, 2021 A new analysis of samples brought back from the Moon to helps clear up questions about the isotopic composition of Moon’s interior. Read Article Open details for Apollo rock samples capture key moments in the Moon’s early history, study finds Health and Medicine Brown, Lifespan, Care New England to create integrated academic health system February 23, 2021 Lifespan and Care New England signed a definitive agreement to merge and create, with Brown and its Warren Alpert Medical School, an integrated academic health system, together for a healthier Rhode Island — Brown invests $125 million in support. Read Article Open details for Brown, Lifespan, Care New England to create integrated academic health system Science and Technology Mars rover touches down at Brown-discovered landing site February 18, 2021 The Perseverance rover will look for signs of ancient life in Jezero crater, a spot Brown researchers have studied for years and championed during the landing site-selection process. Read Article Open details for Mars rover touches down at Brown-discovered landing site News and Events Brown ranked No. 2 nationally for 2020-21 Fulbright scholarship winners February 18, 2021 For the fifth consecutive year, the University is among the top producers of Fulbright winners, with 38 grants awarded to Brown students and recent alumni. Read Article Open details for Brown ranked No. 2 nationally for 2020-21 Fulbright scholarship winners Health and Medicine For mindfulness programs, ‘with whom’ may be more important than ‘how’ February 16, 2021 A pair of Brown University studies on the effect of mindfulness-based meditation programs highlight the importance of the instructor and the group. Read Article Open details for For mindfulness programs, ‘with whom’ may be more important than ‘how’ News and Events With pandemic safety protocols in place, first-year students walk through Van Wickle Gates February 16, 2021 The first-year student procession through the Van Wickle Gates — a tradition that symbolizes their official entry into the Brown community — was adapted to ensure the health and safety of Brown and its neighbors. Read Article Open details for With pandemic safety protocols in place, first-year students walk through Van Wickle Gates Science and Technology Why even try? Using brain science to answer one of life’s biggest questions February 15, 2021 A new study from a research team based at Brown University sheds light on the cognitive processes that occur when humans decide to exert mental effort. Read Article Open details for Why even try? Using brain science to answer one of life’s biggest questions Social Sciences U.S. cities segregated not just by where people live, but where they travel daily February 11, 2021 An analysis of 133 million tweets found that city-dwellers stay racially segregated as they eat, drink, shop, socialize and travel each day, demonstrating even deeper segregation than previously understood. Read Article Open details for U.S. cities segregated not just by where people live, but where they travel daily Science and Technology Neurons from patient blood cells enable researchers to test treatments for genetic brain disease February 10, 2021 A team led by Brown University researchers reprogrammed patient blood cells into stem cells to test treatments for Christianson syndrome, finding that treatment responses varied according to the mutations present. Read Article Open details for Neurons from patient blood cells enable researchers to test treatments for genetic brain disease Social Sciences Reimbursing hospitals for postpartum contraception prevents unintended pregnancies, study finds February 9, 2021 Researchers found that expanding access to long-acting reversible contraception methods, such as IUDs and implants, could give adolescents more agency in choosing whether and when to become pregnant again. Read Article Open details for Reimbursing hospitals for postpartum contraception prevents unintended pregnancies, study finds Science and Technology To figure out how dinosaurs walked, start with how they didn’t February 8, 2021 By analyzing limb poses from modern birds and alligators with innovative 3D imaging technology developed at Brown, scientists have developed a better way to infer how extinct animals might have moved from place to place. Read Article Open details for To figure out how dinosaurs walked, start with how they didn’t Health and Medicine Brown-based IMPACT Collaboratory teams with CVS to monitor COVID-19 vaccine effects February 8, 2021 A $2.5 million federal grant will enable the research team to track vaccine rates and safety for Medicare beneficiaries, who face increased risk of severe illness from the coronavirus. Read Article Open details for Brown-based IMPACT Collaboratory teams with CVS to monitor COVID-19 vaccine effects News and Events Brown Corporation sets tuition and fees for 2021-22 academic year February 8, 2021 A 2.85% increase in tuition and fees, the lowest percent increase in more than a decade, will provide nearly $16 million of revenue, enabling Brown to continue strong support for students with financial need while supporting teaching, learning and research on campus. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation sets tuition and fees for 2021-22 academic year Science and Technology Tiny sensor technique reveals cellular forces involved in tissue generation February 4, 2021 A team of Brown University researchers developed a technique that uses tiny polymer spheres to sense the forces at play as body tissue forms and grows. Read Article Open details for Tiny sensor technique reveals cellular forces involved in tissue generation News and Events Diversity leader Shontay Delalue to become senior vice president and senior diversity officer at Dartmouth February 4, 2021 Brown’s vice president for institutional equity and diversity since 2017, Delalue leaves a legacy of continued momentum toward creating a fully diverse and inclusive academic community at Brown. Read Article Open details for Diversity leader Shontay Delalue to become senior vice president and senior diversity officer at Dartmouth University Initiatives With a focus on serving Rhode Island communities, Brown deepens its partnership with United Way February 3, 2021 Brown Gives has raised millions of dollars over decades to support United Way in helping Rhode Islanders in need, and the University has pledged a four-year commitment to support the organization’s new strategic plan. Read Article Open details for With a focus on serving Rhode Island communities, Brown deepens its partnership with United Way Arts and Humanities $4.9 million grant project to interrogate legacy of colonialism, subjugation in New England February 2, 2021 Brown University, Williams College and the Mystic Seaport Museum scholars will use maritime history as a basis for studying the relationship between European colonization, dispossession of Native American land and racial slavery. Read Article Open details for $4.9 million grant project to interrogate legacy of colonialism, subjugation in New England News and Events Alumni-led nonprofit donates monitors to Providence teachers in name of Brown professor February 2, 2021 Two Screens for Teachers, cofounded by Class of 1998 graduate Matthew Lerner, donated monitors to more than 400 Providence teachers in the name of legendary Brown professor Andy van Dam. Read Article Open details for Alumni-led nonprofit donates monitors to Providence teachers in name of Brown professor Health and Medicine Lesbian, gay, bisexual medical students are more likely to experience burnout, study finds February 2, 2021 Burnout among medical students has significant implications for student health and delivery of care, and future physicians in sexual minority groups report higher rates of burnout than their heterosexual peers. Read Article Open details for Lesbian, gay, bisexual medical students are more likely to experience burnout, study finds News and Events Brown Athletics director to step down after nearly a decade of leadership January 29, 2021 Jack Hayes, director of athletics and recreation since 2012, leaves a legacy of success by Brown student-athletes on the field, in the classroom and in the local community. Read Article Open details for Brown Athletics director to step down after nearly a decade of leadership Science and Technology Thick lithosphere casts doubt on plate tectonics in Venus’s geologically recent past January 28, 2021 A study of a giant impact crater on Venus suggests that its lithosphere was too thick to have had Earth-like plate tectonics, at least for much of the past billion years. Read Article Open details for Thick lithosphere casts doubt on plate tectonics in Venus’s geologically recent past News and Events Brown alumna Janet Yellen first woman to serve as treasury secretary January 28, 2021 The Class of 1967 Brown graduate and former Federal Reserve chair will advise President Joseph Biden and his cabinet on economic issues. Read Article Open details for Brown alumna Janet Yellen first woman to serve as treasury secretary Health and Medicine $25 million gift to Brown will fuel innovation in brain science January 26, 2021 The latest major investment in Brown’s cutting-edge brain science research, the generous gift will support computational brain science and endow a program to promote innovative research. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift to Brown will fuel innovation in brain science Health and Medicine Clinical trial to evaluate whether topical medication can prevent common skin cancer January 25, 2021 A $34 million U.S. Veterans Affairs grant will enable Martin Weinstock, who directs dermatology research for the Providence V.A. and is a Brown professor, to evaluate the effectiveness of a common medication in preventing basal cell carcinoma. Read Article Open details for Clinical trial to evaluate whether topical medication can prevent common skin cancer Social Sciences Conversations on COVID: Is all pandemic news really bad news? January 22, 2021 Molly Cook, a junior at Brown, participated in a research project that found that major American news outlets took a more negative tone in their COVID-19 coverage than international news outlets or scientific journals. Read Article Open details for Conversations on COVID: Is all pandemic news really bad news? Science and Technology New technique builds super-hard metals from nanoparticles January 22, 2021 Brown University researchers have shown a way to make bulk metals by smashing tiny metal nanoparticles together, which allows for customized grain structures and improved mechanical and other properties. Read Article Open details for New technique builds super-hard metals from nanoparticles News and Events Letter from President Paxson: Plans for Commencement and Reunion 2021 January 21, 2021 Given the state of the public health situation, Brown will host Commencement events for Class of 2021 graduates in person, but families and guests will attend virtually, and all alumni Reunion events will be held virtually. Read Article Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Plans for Commencement and Reunion 2021 Science and Technology Researchers develop new graphene nanochannel water filters January 21, 2021 Brown University researchers have shown that tiny channels between graphene sheets can be aligned in a way that makes them ideal for water filtration. Read Article Open details for Researchers develop new graphene nanochannel water filters Science and Technology Brown brain scientist wins early-career award from National Academy of Sciences January 21, 2021 Michael J. Frank, a Brown professor who directs the Center for Computational Brain Science in the Carney Institute for Brain Science, was named one of two recipients of this year’s Troland Award. Read Article Open details for Brown brain scientist wins early-career award from National Academy of Sciences News and Events Brown’s newest undergraduates, by the numbers January 20, 2021 A total of 1,756 new first-year students began studies at Brown University on Wednesday, Jan. 20 — here’s a look at who is included in the Class of 2024 Read Article Open details for Brown’s newest undergraduates, by the numbers Student Life Excitement, energy and a desire to explore: Class of 2024 undergrads arrive at Brown January 20, 2021 After a postponed arrival due to the pandemic, Brown’s 1,756 first-year undergraduate students began their first term at the University on Wednesday, Jan. 20 — and five of them shared their stories. Read Article Open details for Excitement, energy and a desire to explore: Class of 2024 undergrads arrive at Brown News and Events Brown alumna to co-chair science and technology council under Biden administration January 20, 2021 Maria Zuber, a senior leader and faculty member at MIT who earned her Ph.D. from Brown, will lead the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology. Read Article Open details for Brown alumna to co-chair science and technology council under Biden administration University Initiatives For the Brown community, honoring the values of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. January 18, 2021 In the face of enduring systemic racism and profound political divisiveness, Brown President Christina H. Paxson urged students, faculty and staff to uphold the values that define King’s legacy. Read Article Open details for For the Brown community, honoring the values of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Previous … 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 … Next Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search All News Open details for All News Bookmark this Page