Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Faculty Ombudsperson Menu Search TTU Faculty Ombuds Faculty Ombudsperson The Office of the Faculty Ombudsperson provides a safe place where faculty may seek assistance in addressing conflicts, disputes, or complaints beyond turning to their supervisors. The ombudsperson acts as an independent, impartial, confidential, and informal resource for faculty who are dealing with any work-related difficulty including interpersonal conflict or academic or administrative concerns. Visiting with the Ombudsperson does not replace any steps required in formal internal or external procedures of Texas Tech University. The Ombudsperson is an advocate for a fair and equitable process, not an advocate on behalf of individuals or the institution. Definition TTU Ombudsperson Why Visit? Limits Principles & Ethics Resources Contact What is the Office of the Faculty Ombudsperson? The Texas Tech University Office of the Faculty Ombudsperson was established in 2015 to provide an independent, neutral, informal, off-the-record, and alternate channel of communication for all faculty to resolve workplace issues including, conflicts, disputes, complaints, as well as academic and administrative concerns. As a result of this service, the office assists Texas Tech's adherence to the university's ethical principles, values, and operating policies and procedures while helping Texas Tech address systemic workplace issues. Thus, the ombudsperson is a consultant, communication resource, and catalyst for institutional improvement and change. Who is the Faculty Ombudsperson? Dr. Tara Stevens is currently serving as the Faculty Ombudsperson. Dr. Stevens is a professor in the Texas Tech College of Education. She has been part of the Texas Tech University faculty since 2002. Why do faculty members visit the ombudsperson? Faculty members visit the ombudsperson to: Clarify operating procedures related to their work and tenure Develop effective strategies and skills to better communicate with others Talk through a problem, issue, or concern they have Talk through ethical issues, observed misconduct, and related challenges Generate informal solutions to resolve conflict and challenges Receive assistance communicating with colleagues, supervisors, and others who affect their work Connect with other university offices and people who can help with a problem or concern What are limits to the ombudsperson's role? Only informal processes are used by the ombudsperson; therefore, the ombudsperson does NOT: Supersede the authority of another Texas Tech official Provide legal advice Provide psychological services, including counseling or therapy Conduct formal investigations Participate in any formal grievance process as an advocate or witness on behalf of an individual Accept notice of claims against the university Conversation with the ombudsperson does not constitute notice to the university. What principles and ethics guide the Office of the Faculty Ombudsperson? The Office of the Faculty Ombudsperson follows four important standards of practice: independence, confidential, impartial, and informal. The independent nature of the office allows faculty members a confidential resource to communicate problems and process concerns, generate solutions, and access informal supports and strategies. This is accomplished by following standards of practice and the ethics set forth by the International Ombudsman Association. What related resources are available to faculty? Texas Tech University Operating Procedures Faculty Senate Employee Assistance Program Human Resources Office of Equal Opportunity Title IX How do I contact the ombudsperson? The ombudsperson can be contacted by telephone or email. Although email contact and scheduling is encouraged, sharing confidential information via email is discouraged due to limitations of technology. Tara Stevens, Ed.D. College of Education, Office #373 ombudsperson@ttu.edu tara.stevens@ttu.edu (806) 834-2486 Faculty Ombudsperson Address Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.2011 Email webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2020 4:24 PM Faculty Ombudsperson Description TTU Ombudsperson Why Visit? Limits Principles & Ethics Resources Contact Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index