Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search × Open main menu Close Open search About Close About Who we are Meet Utah State Fast Facts Diversity and Inclusion Leadership History and Traditions Notable Alumni Newsroom Utah State Today Utah State Magazine Pressroom USU Experts Locations Visit Campus Statewide Campuses USU Eastern Maps Cache Valley and Utah Information Contact USU Calendars Directory Employment Giving Admission Close Admission Become an Aggie How to Apply Campus Tours Undergraduate Admissions School of Graduate Studies International Admissions Concurrent Enrollment Financial Aid and Cost Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Scholarships Graduate Funding Registration Academic Calendar Online Catalog Dates and Deadlines Tuition and Payment Register for Classes Transcript Requests After Admission New Student Orientation Parent & Family Resources USU 1010: Connections Deferment Notification of Leave Academics Close Academics Overview Learning at Utah State Colleges and Schools Statewide Campuses USU Online Study Abroad Honors Program Majors and Minors Degree Finder Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Online Degrees Professional and Technical Education Find Help Advising Academic Support Veterans Resources Center Academic Success Programs Disability Resources Center Career Design Center Resources Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Libraries Graduation Campus Life Close Campus Life Student Experience Experience USU Living on Campus Health and Wellness Safety at Utah State Things to do Get Involved Athletics Recreation Arts and Culture Information Events Calendar Clubs and Organizations Student Affairs Resources Aggie Wellness Inclusion Center Involvement Ready Center for Community Engagement Wellness Ready Research Athletics Extension For You Close For You Prospective Students Current Students Parents Faculty and Staff Donors Alumni & Friends Ask USU Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Meet Utah State Home of the Aggies We started out as an agricultural college in 1888. That's why they branded us Aggies. No matter where you live, or who you are, Utah State University is built for all. We are innovators, and doers. A University For All. Founded in 1888 Students 27,000+ Alumni 160,000+ Best City to Live in the West - Business Insider, June 2020 1 Our Mission Our mission is to be one of the nation’s premier student-centered, land-grant and space-grant universities by fostering the principle that academics come first, by cultivating diversity of thought and culture, and by serving the public through learning, discovery and engagement. We engage in fields of study the world can’t live without. Learn More History and Traditions USU Leadership Notable Alumni Utah State Today Making an impact Utah State Aggies create transformational impacts through meaningful research, particularly in space, water, land, air, and quality of life questions. As a research-focused institution, we engage in fields of study the world can’t live without. Utah State grad student Paul Kusuma examines a tomato plant as part of a series of plant experiments designed to eventually grow plants on Mars. Growing Plants in Space As one of 14 university-affiliated research centers, USU’s Space Dynamics Laboratory (SDL) works with the U.S. Department of Defense and industry leaders to defend and protect our nation, as well as supports NASA’s vision to “reveal the unknown for the benefit of humankind.” Graduate students such as Jalin Finai are helping to make an impact on children through early identification of hearing loss. Helping Children Hear the World Around Them Graduate students like Jalin Finai help improve children’s lives through early identification of hearing loss. Utah State’s Dr. Ricardo Ramirez examines corn leaves grown at the university’s research green house. Defending Utah's Crops At USU, students embrace the opportunities offered by collaboration and are given opportunities to work closely with research faculty. Dr. Ricardo Ramirez leads students in research to create tools, like biopesticides, to help farmers combat destructive insects. Aggie Impact Stories Rankings Highest-Ranked Public University in the Country with the Lowest Tuition - Forbes, “America’s Top Colleges”, August 2019 17th Best Online Bachelor’s Degree Program in the Nation - Study.com, August 2019 7th Public University in the Nation - Washington Monthly, “2020 National Universities Rankings,” September 2020 2nd “Best City to Live in the West” - Business Insider, June 2020 1st Fast Facts Our Commitment to Well-Being USU fosters a caring community that elevates the academic experience for all Aggies and prepares students to become global citizens and leaders. We provide supports for all aspects of wellness, such as physical, mental, and even financial resources. Learn More Health and Wellness Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Diversity and Inclusion Aggies Think, Care, Act Research at USU Utah State University engages students in research and inspires self-discovery. Through innovative research, our graduates become integral researchers who help the nation and the world. Learn More Research and Innovation Research Stories Faculty Experts A Land-Grant University Utah State Locations Utah State has 30 locations, including three residential campuses in Logan, Blanding, and Price, plus USU Online to give students access to the same top-tier education anytime, anywhere. More Info Visit Campus Statewide Campuses Maps Logan and Utah Extension Founded in 1914 as part of the Smith-Lever Act, USU Extension plays a primary role in helping Utah State University fulfill its land-grant mission, providing research-based programs and resources with the goal of improving the lives of individuals, families and communities throughout Utah. More Extension Info Visit Extension Locations Research News Want to learn more about USU? Request Information FOLLOW US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU YouTube USU Instagram USU LinkedIn Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 ABOUT USU Contact Quick Facts News For Media Career EDUCATION Find a Degree Colleges & Schools Graduate School USU Online Statewide Campuses RESOURCES Academic Calendar University Catalog Library Canvas IT Service Desk Quick Links Directory Events Visit Campus Maps Giving Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Disclaimers Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Back to top of the page