Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now Topics Infectious Disease Infectious Disease As the Ebola outbreak in West Africa demonstrated, a core responsibility of public health research is new knowledge on the prevention, control, and treatment of infectious diseases. Featured Video <a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/JNNWboJjnBo?rel=0&amp;wmode=opaque&amp;autohide=1">Embedded video</a> Faculty in Infectious Disease Andrea Howard Associate Professor Epidemiology (in ICAP) at the Columbia University Medical Center Bruce Levin Professor Biostatistics Cassie Landers Assistant Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center Elaine Larson Professor Emerita Epidemiology Jeffrey Fagan Professor Epidemiology Jasmine McDonald Assistant Professor Epidemiology James Colgrove Professor Sociomedical Sciences Jessica Justman Associate Professor Medicine (in Epidemiology and ICAP) at the Columbia University Medical Center Jeffrey Shaman Professor Environmental Health Sciences (in the International Research Institute for Climate and Society/Earth Institute) Kavita Sivaramakrishnan Associate Professor Sociomedical Sciences Moise Desvarieux Associate Professor Epidemiology Mady Hornig Associate Professor Epidemiology at the Columbia University Medical Center Maureen Miller Adjunct Associate Professor Epidemiology Melissa Stockwell Associate Professor Pediatrics and Population and Family Health Nischay Mishra Assistant Professor Epidemiology (In the Center for Infection and Immunity) at the Columbia University Medical Center Paul Wilson Assistant Professor of Clinical Population and Family Health Quarraisha Abdool Karim Professor Epidemiology at the Columbia University Medical Center Ronald Bayer Professor Sociomedical Sciences Robert Klitzman Professor Psychiatry (in Sociomedical Sciences) at the Columbia University Medical Center Renata Schiavo Senior Lecturer Sociomedical Sciences Rachel Moresky Associate Professor Heilbrunn Population and Family Health Srikesh Arunajadai Adjunct Assistant Professor Biostatistics Susan Michaels-Strasser Assistant Professor Epidemiology (in ICAP) at the Columbia University Medical Center Salim Abdool Karim Caprisa Professor for Global Health in Epidemiology Stephen Morse Professor Epidemiology at the Columbia University Medical Center Thomas Briese Associate Professor Epidemiology at the Columbia University Medical Center W. Ian Lipkin John Snow Professor Epidemiology, Professor of Neurology and Pathology and Cell Biology Wafaa El-Sadr University Professor, Dr. Mathilde Krim-amfAR Chair of Global Health Epidemiology (In ICAP) Xinhua Liu Professor Biostatistics at the Columbia University Medical Center Wan Yang Assistant Professor Epidemiology Chloe Teasdale Adjunct Assistant Professor Epidemiology Max O'Donnell Associate Professor Epidemiology and Medicine Annika Sweetland Assistant Professor Psychiatry Nina Schwalbe Adjunct Assistant Professor Population and Family Health Andrea Low Assistant Professor Epidemiology (in ICAP) at the Columbia University Medical Center Matthew Lamb Assistant Professor Epidemiology (In ICAP) at the Columbia University Medical Center Xiaoyu Che Assistant Professor Biostatistics (In the Center for Infection and Immunity) at the Columbia University Medical Center S. Patrick Kachur Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center Daniel Freedberg Assistant Professor Epidemiology and Medicine Rupak Shivakoti Assistant Professor Epidemiology Sen Pei Assistant Professor Environmental Health Sciences Abigail Greenleaf Assistant Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center (at ICAP) Dustin Duncan Associate Professor Epidemiology Jonathan Epstein Adjunct Associate Professor Epidemiology Elizabeth Radin Lecturer Epidemiology News & Features Our Experts Help Explain the Monkeypox Outbreak As of May 25, there are 226 confirmed cases of monkeypox in 21 countries—the largest monkeypox outbreak to date and the first instance of widespread community transmission outside of Africa. Among these are several confirmed cases in the United States. Monkeypox virus, a virus in the same Columbia University Honors School's Pandemic Leadership On May 19, Columbia University President Lee Bollinger awarded the Nicholas Murray Butler Gold Medal to 21 members of the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19. The group, whose members include Dean Linda P. Fried and Wafaa El-Sadr, is charged with ensuring the health and safety o Survey Finds High Rates of Depression Among Latin American Health Care Providers A multinational survey of healthcare providers in the Americas found high rates of depression and suicidal ideation in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Less than one third of those who said they needed psychological care received it. The COVID-19 HEalth caRe wOrkErs Study (HEROES) Regio See All Just Published Bayer, R., & Castro, K.G. (2017). Tuberculosis Elimination in the United States - The Need for Renewed Action. New England Journal of Medicine. View abstract. Metsch, L.S., Feaster, D.J., Gooden, L., Matheson, T., ... del Rio, C., (2016). Effect of Patient Navigation With or Without Financial Incentives on Viral Suppression Among Hospitalized Patients With HIV Infection and Substance Use. JAMA. View abstract. Bacharacha, E., Mishrab, N., Brieseb, T. ... Lipkin, W.I. (2016). Characterization of a Novel Orthomyxo-like Virus Causing Mass Die-Offs of Tilapia. mBio. View abstract. Rabkin, M., Fouad, F.M. & El-Sadr, W.M. (2016). Addressing chronic diseases in protracted emergencies: Lessons from HIV for a new health imperative. Global Public Health. View abstract. Related Centers & Programs Harlem Health Promotion Center A collaboration of community and academic stakeholders to improve the health and well-being of the Harlem community. Program on Forced Migration and Health Training humanitarian aid workers to ensure more effective, informed, and consistent response. Center for Infection and Immunity One of the world’s largest and most advanced academic centers focused on microbial surveillance, discovery and diagnosis Corporate Partnerships Research to Impact Upcoming Events Wednesday 1 June episummer@columbia Friday 3 June Release Webinar for the National Academy of Medicine's Global Roadmap for Health Longevity Friday 3 June COVID-19: From Causes to Consequences Hosted by The Columbia Connection Monday 6 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Tuesday 7 June New Resources and Creative Strategies for Recruiting Candidates for Health Departments Tuesday 7 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Thursday 9 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Friday 10 June Creating a Synthetic Life Course Cohort for Research on Alzheimer's Disease Neuroepidemiology Seminar Friday 10 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers