Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Caruth Institute About Us About Us Partners and Collaborators Directory Contact Us Youth Programs & Camps Youth Programs & Camps Visioneering Engineering Summer Camps Dallas Regional Science and Engineering Fair Research & Development ☰ Caruth Institute for Engineering Education Lyle Home Centers & Institutes Caruth Institute Welcome to the Caruth Institute for Engineering Education The Caruth Institute for Engineering Education (CIEE) is a national center of excellence focused on research, development, delivery and evaluation of new and innovative K-16 science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) and engineering education programs. The Institute strives to increase the number and diversity of students interested in pursuing the study of engineering or technology to meet the ever-increasing demand for a well-educated high-tech workforce. To make this possible, the Institute sponsors a variety of programs designed to familiarize students with engineering-focused STEM activities that also spark science, technology and mathematics learning. About Us Youth Programs & Camps Research & Development Hurst-Euless-Bedford ISD and SMU's Mars 2021 Mission on June 18, 2021 HEB ISD and SMU are partnering to host the Mars 2021 Mission this summer. The culmination landing will begin at noon on June 18 at L. D. Bell High School Auditorium. Event Details Friday Research Talk Spring Conference On April 16, 2021, the Caruth Institute for Engineering Education sponsored their Friday Research Talk Spring Conference, which focused on SMU’s West Dallas STEM School Project. The morning session of the conference featured Dr. Jean Moon, a noted science educator at the Tidewater Institute, whose lecture was titled Situating Interactional Learning and Student Agency. Following Dr. Moon’s presentation, West Dallas STEM School Project Coordinator Katrina Martinez and Dean Stephanie Knight of the Simmons School of Education and Human Development presented on Intersectionality of Agency and Voice: Envisioning/Designing a Model STEM School. The final morning session featured Drs. Annie Wilhelm and Amy Richardson of the Department of Teaching and Learning in the Simmons School and Dr. Dana Gray of The Budd Center in the Simmons School, who presented on Continuous Improvement & West Dallas STEM School Professional Learning. A recording of the morning session can be accessed below. The afternoon session of the conference showcased Dr. David Stroupe of Michigan State University, who presented on Promoting Epistemic Agency in Science Classrooms. Dr. Stroupe was followed by Drs. Quentin Sedlacek of the Department of Teaching and Learning and Jamie Gravell, a West Dallas STEM School Postdoctoral Fellow, who presented on A Shared Vision: Applications of West Dallas STEM School Instructional Vision and Learner Profile. The afternoon session concluded with a presentation by CIEE Executive Director Dr. Richard Duschl and Dr. Tony Petrosino of the Department of Teaching and Learning, who presented on Designing Thinking Learning Environments. Special thanks goes to Eva Bernal of The Budd Center who helped facilitate the meeting and provided technology assistance before, during, and after the conference. A recording of the afternoon session can be accessed below. Situating Interactional Learning and Student Agency Dr. Jean Moon (Morning session) Watch Video Promoting Epistemic Agency in Science Classrooms Dr. David Stroupe (Evening session) Watch Video Recent CIEE News CIEE Research Assistant Professor named to SMU Social Justice and Equity Task Force Congratulations to CIEE Research Assistant Professor Dr. Kelyn Rola for being selected to serve as a member of SMU’s Social Justice and Equity task force. The university-wide, interdisciplinary task force was commissioned by SMU’s Provost, Elizabeth Loboa, to explore and inform SMU's approach to greater social justice and equity. Dr. Rola will represent the Lyle School of Engineering in this important work and looks forward to serving SMU in pursuit of promoting social justice and equity both on campus and in the greater Dallas community. More Information SMU Excellent Educator SMU Excellent Educator recognizes Rochelle Hailey, 6th grade teacher at the Solar Preparatory School for Girls, for her work introducing young girls to engineering technology. Watch Video For Better Results, Ask Better Questions In an article written for the 2021 STEAM Special Edition of PeopleNewspapers, CIEE Director Richard Duschl discusses how science and engineering (S&E) education is needed to engage students in the struggles of making decisions and using evidence and ideas to explain, model, design, and engineer. The full issue of 2021 STEAM Special Edition containing Dr. Duschl’s work can be found here. Read More Drones in the Classroom Virtual Conference The Caruth Institute hosted the Drones in the Classroom Virtual Conference November 14, 2020. There were 260 registered attendees from 15 countries, 37 states and the Virgin Islands. There were 9 presentations on topics ranging from drone careers, to drone curriculum, to drone platforms. You can find all the presentations, more information and can sign up for the next conference at the link below. Conference Details Get in touch: Hours: Mon - Fri, 8:30 am - 5:00 pm Phone Number: 214-768-4262 Fax: 214-768-4007 Email: ciee@lyle.smu.edu Mailing Address: PO Box 750278 Dallas, TX 75275 Delivery Address: 3145 Dyer St., Ste. 353 Dallas, TX 75205 School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus