Skip to content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Biotechnology Outreach Education Center Menu Toggle Search Home About Us About Us Newsletters Our Impact Faculty Partners R.E.T. Research Experience for Teachers (RET) RET for Researchers RET for Educators Past Projects Pre-service Teacher R.E.U. Research Experience for Pre-service STEM Teachers REU Program Details Classroom Resources BOEC Visits Curriculum Materials Lending Learning Opportunities Contact Us Learning Opportunities BOEC 2022 Programs Learning opportunities for STEM teachers interested in partnering with Iowa State University projects and researchers. FOR RESEARCHERS Grow Your Broader Impacts We can help build your broader impact identity through unique and innovative programs. Biotechnology Outreach Education Center The BOEC at Iowa State University develops STEM programming for K-12 teachers and students while supporting vital researcher-teacher partnerships. Engage students Classroom Resources Are you looking for investigation ideas and activities? Check out our ever-expanding selection of curriculum materials designed to help connect K-12 students with research projects happening at Iowa State University. RESEARCH EXPERIENCE FOR TEACHERS Six week program with ISU researcher Spend six amazing weeks with a researcher at Iowa State University and learn how to translate it into classroom experiences. Upcoming Events Check out all the great upcoming events and learning opportunities the Office of Biotechnology has to offer. 2022 Research Experience for Undergrads (REU) This summer, we will be accepting three REU candidates who will work alongside an Iowa State University professor and their… Biotech I and II miniPCR Update (July 2022) This one-day workshop will provide STEM teachers the opportunity to engage with the new miniPCR electrophoresis kit and thermal cycler. … Biotech I and II miniPCR Update (June 2022) This one-day workshop will provide STEM teachers the opportunity to engage with the new miniPCR electrophoresis kit and thermal cycler. … Innovative Practices Workshop: Antimicrobial Resistance (summer) Workshop Description The “Innovative Practices” workshop aims to reignite participants’ curiosity and empower teachers to become game-changers. Experiences provide direct… Innovative Practices Workshop: Woodchip Bioreactors (summer) Workshop Description The “Innovative Practices” workshop aims to reignite participants’ curiosity and empower teachers to become game-changers. Experiences provide direct… Office of Biotechnology Office of Biotechnology 1210 Molecular Biology Building 2437 Pammel Drive Ames, IA 50011-1079 biotech@iastate.edu (515) 294-9818 Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information Login Loading...