Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research Services We're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities, mathematics, music, physical sciences and social sciences collections Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major who wants to help! Teaching Support We have librarians who specializes in your subject area and can support your students’ learning. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Digital Collections Illustration from the Jewelry Design Books of Jaques and Marcus Please read Dartmouth Library's Statement on Potentially Harmful Content. Digital by Dartmouth Library Digital Collections Topic American History Art Asian Studies Astronomy Classics Comic Books Dartmouth History Dr. Seuss Earth Science Environmental Studies Medieval Studies New Hampshire Polar Studies World History Format Audio Book Film Journal Manuscript Map Music Photography Language Chinese English Italian Japanese Latin Russian Spanish Vietnamese Apply Mezzotint of Samson Occom by Jonathan Spilsbury, after a portrait by Mason Chamberlin, 1768. National Portrait Gallery, public domain. The Occom Circle Papers of Samson Occom (Mohegan, 1727-1792), author, minister, missionary, intertribal leader, and public intellectual. Collection Tags:Manuscript, Dartmouth History Sanborn Fire Insurance Maps: New Hampshire Towns, 1880s-1940s Maps of towns and cities, produced by the Sanborn Map Company for insurance purposes. Collection Tags:Map, New Hampshire Change the Subject A 54-minute documentary about Dartmouth students who challenged anti-immigrant language in Library of Congress subject headings. Collection Tags:Film, American History, Dartmouth History Page from 15th-century edition of Ovid's De Arte Amandi (Ars Amatoria) De Arte Amandi By Ovid (43 BCE-17/18 CE). Color facsimile of a pre-1480 printed Italian book (an incunabulum). Collection Tags:Book, Medieval Studies, Classics Shi Jianying on a train leaving Shanghai in 1970. Down to the Countryside Movement Unique collection of memoirs, photographs, correspondence, and other primary sources from China’s former Rusticated Youth. Collection Tags:Manuscript, Photography, Film, World History, Asian Studies Encyclopedia Arctica Facsimile and searchable text of an unpublished Arctic encyclopedia, sponsored by the U.S. Office of Naval Research. Collection Tags:Manuscript, Polar Studies Dartmouth College Charter Charter for Dartmouth College, signed by Theodore Atkinson and John Wentworth on December 13, 1769. Includes transcription. Collection Tags:Manuscript, Dartmouth History Comoediae sex cum argumentis By Terence (ca. 190-159 BCE). Six plays, from a manuscript produced in 1462. Collection Tags:Manuscript, Classics, Medieval Studies David Brainard Diary By David Brainard (1856-1946). An account of the Lady Franklin Bay Expedition through the long and desperate winter of 1883–1884. Collection Tags:Manuscript, Polar Studies The Limits to Growth By Donella Meadows et al, 1972. Subtitled "A Report for the Club of Rome's Project on the Predicament of Mankind." Collection Tags:Book, Environmental Studies Jon Appleton: Selected Compositions, 1959-2006 Over 140 music compositions by Dartmouth music professor Jon Appleton, freely available to listen to for non-commercial uses. Collection Tags:Music, Dartmouth History Dartmouth Dissertations Doctoral dissertations written at Dartmouth College between 1960 and 2017. All are freely provided online with permission of the authors. Collection Tags:Book, Dartmouth History Dartmouth Library with old card catalogs The Woodward Succession By Lois A. Krieger. Subtitled "A Brief History of the Dartmouth College Library, 1769-2002." Collection Tags:Book, Dartmouth History New Hampshire's Towns & Cities in Maps, 1776-2006 Maps of New Hampshire cities and towns from 1776 to 2006, complementing the “Granite State in Maps” collection. Collection Tags:Map, New Hampshire The Granite State in Maps, 1756-2003 Maps illustrating changes in New Hampshire's borders and how the state saw itself. Collection Tags:Map, New Hampshire Dōchū hizakurige Selections from the 19th-century comic novel "A shanks' mare tour of the Tōkaidō" by Ikku Jippensha (1765-1831). Collection Tags:Book, Asian Studies, Art The Joseph Rainone Early Comic Collection American and British comic almanacs and other publications from the nineteenth century. Collection Tags:Book, Art The Brut Chronicle The earliest prose chronicle in English, begun after 1272, with continuations through the early 15th century. Collection Tags:Manuscript, Medieval Studies Jewelry Design Books of Jaques and Marcus, 1890 to 1910 Eight volumes of custom jewelry design books from the firm of Jaques and Marcus, later Marcus and Co., circa 1890-1910. Collection Tags:Manuscript, Art Antiphonal 16th-century Spanish antiphonal, containing the chants for the Divine Office of the Roman Catholic Church. Collection Tags:Manuscript, Music, Medieval Studies Original Etchings by American Artists Published in 1883, this volume collects original prints by some of the most prominent American artists of the nineteenth century. Collection Tags:Book, Art Western Manuscripts Descriptions and selected images from the Dartmouth Library's collection of early manuscripts. Collection Tags:Manuscript, Medieval Studies Russian Placards, 1917-1922 Posters designed by V. Lebedev for the windows of ROSTA, the state news agency of Soviet Russia. Collection Tags:Book, Art The Adventures of Mr. Obadiah Oldbuck By Rodolphe Töpffer. The first comic book printed in the United States, published circa 1840. Collection Tags:Book, Art The Fortunes of Ferdinand Flipper Published circa 1850. The first comic book written in the United States. Collection Tags:Book, Art The John McCoy Family Papers Letters and papers from 1847-1899 related to John McCoy's time as a Union soldier in the American Civil War. Collection Tags:Manuscript, American History Correspondence of Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry By Oliver Hazard Perry (1785-1819). Professional and personal correspondence from approximately 1807 to 1819. Collection Tags:Manuscript, World History The Richard Stoiber Collection of Color Slides Color slides, many of Central American volcanoes, by Richard E. Stoiber '32 (1911-2001), Professor of Geology. Collection Tags:Photography, Earth Science The Vilhjalmur Stefansson Collection of Arctic Photographs Over 1,200 images primarily from the Canadian Arctic Expedition (1913-1918), and 700 lantern slides. Collection Tags:Photography, Polar Studies The Papers of Charles Daniel Tenney The papers of Charles Daniel Tenney (1857-1930) include essays, speeches and translations concerning his time in China. Collection Tags:Manuscript, Asian Studies, Dartmouth History Sino-Viet Ritual Texts Three unique manuscripts of rituals in classical Chinese and Vietnamese Nom, from the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Collection Tags:Manuscript, Asian Studies Hanover, New Hampshire Maps Maps of Hanover, New Hampshire, and Dartmouth College, circa 1700 to 1923. Collection Tags:Map, Dartmouth History The American Military Pocket Atlas (1776) A 1776 collection of maps of the British colonies. Collection Tags:Map, American History Press Translations, Japan, 1945-1946 English summaries or full translations of newspaper articles and editorials from the U.S. Occupation of post-World War II Japan. Collection Tags:Manuscript, World History Stone Family Papers, 1571-1933 Documents chronicling the legal transactions of Richard Stone (ca. 1570-1653) of England and his descendants. Collection Tags:Manuscript, World History Freedom and Necessity in the Sciences By J. Robert Oppenheimer (1904-1967). Lecture delivered at Dartmouth in 1959. Collection Tags:Audio, Dartmouth History Old Dartmouth Classification Schedules Classification system for books, created and used by the Dartmouth College Library in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Collection Tags:Manuscript, Dartmouth History Sketches of the Alumni of Dartmouth College By George T. Chapman. Includes entries for most graduates from the classes of 1771 through 1867. Collection Tags:Book, Dartmouth History Dartmouth Winter Carnival Posters Digital images of each known Winter Carnival poster from 1911 to the present. Collection Tags:Photography, Dartmouth History, Art Dartmouth College Films Archival materials from the 1920s to the present day, chronicling the Dartmouth experience over the decades. Collection Tags:Film, Dartmouth History Dartmouth Photographic Records, 1938-present Photos by College Photographers Adrian N. Bouchard; Stuart Bratesman; Joseph Mehling; and Eli Burakian. Collection Tags:Photography, Dartmouth History Who's Who & What's What in the Books of Dr. Seuss By Edward Connery Lathem. Written to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Theodor Geisel's graduation from Dartmouth. Collection Tags:Book, Dr. Seuss The Beginnings of Dr. Seuss By Theodor Geisel (1904-1991). Reflections on his early career, from audio recordings made in 1975. Collection Tags:Book, Dr. Seuss The Vox Images Photographs created for the print publication Vox of Dartmouth, 2006-2007. Collection Tags:Photography, Dartmouth History Dartmouth students protesting Apartheid, 1989. Dartmouth Photographic Files Photos of life at Dartmouth from various sources, including scenes of campus grounds, facilities, people, and events. Collection Tags:Photography, Dartmouth History Dartmouth College and Associated Schools General Catalogue, 1769-1940 A directory of Dartmouth’s officers, faculty, and alumni, 1769-1939. Includes indexes to names and geographical location of alumni. Collection Tags:Book, Dartmouth History Digital Publishing: Books The Library's Scholarly Communication, Copyright, and Publishing program publishes open access ebooks. Collection Tags:Book Digital Publishing: Journals The Library's Scholarly Communication, Copyright, and Publishing program publishes several open access scholarly journals. Collection Tags:Journal Regiomontanus Defensio Theonis Written in the 1470s, this astronomical text is a survey of the astronomical and natural philosophical worlds of Ptolemy's Almagest. Collection Tags:Manuscript, Medieval Studies, Astronomy Dartmouth College Oral History Program Documents events and issues that have shaped Dartmouth and altered or challenged the direction and identity of the institution. Collection Tags:Audio, Dartmouth History U.S. Congressional Serial Set Readex resource digitized from Dartmouth's print collection of over 13,800 congressional volumes, 1789-1980 (not open access). Collection Tags:Book, American History Digital Exhibits Digital exhibits of materials from the Dartmouth Library collections. Collection Tags:Photography, Manuscript, Dartmouth History Ada Blackjack with the expedition's cat, Vic, aboard the rescue ship, 1923 Ada Blackjack Diary The diary of Ada Blackjack, sole survivor of the Wrangel Island expedition, March-August 1923 Collection Tags:Manuscript, Polar Studies Re-Imagining History: A Digital Handlist of Brut Manuscripts A browseable directory of known copies of the Middle English Prose Brut chronicle Collection Tags:Manuscript, Medieval Studies Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy