Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Department of Mathematics Undergraduate Employment Opportunities Are you interested in working with faculty to teach our undergraduate mathematics courses? Positions available include Undergraduate Teaching Assistants (UTA), MRC Tutors, and Grader positions. The department is also excited to announce our first offering of the Math Teaching Fellows Program, an exciting opportunity for you to develop your knowledge and experience of teaching. Students like yourself play a crucial role in helping our faculty support the learning goals of all of your students. If you’re looking to learn more about what it’s like on our side of the classroom, we sincerely hope you consider applying for these positions! The Math Teaching Fellow Program This year, the department is launching the Math Teaching Fellows Program, a semester-long certificate program that is completed alongside a UTA-appointment in one of the Math department's introductory calculus or linear algebra courses (Math 0190, 0200, or 0520). Participants will work through a number of online modules that build up to workshops facilitated by the program's instructors, Prof. Hsu and Prof. Kostiuk. The program culminates with critical observations of teaching and the development of a written statement of teaching philosophy. Upon completion of the program, participants receive a certificate of completion, a $300 stipend, and priority in future UTA hiring rounds. For more information about the MTF program, please have a look at the program’s website. Any questions about the program should be directed to Prof. Kostiuk ([email protected]) or Prof. Hsu ([email protected]). Job Descriptions: UTA The main duties of the UTA job involve running recitation sessions, grading homework, holding office hours, and attending sections. The workload for a UTA is about 6 hours per week. Some former UTAs have said that being a UTA was one of the favorite parts of their undergraduate experience! Graders The main duties of the grader's job involve grading homework and keeping a record of grades according to the instructor's specifications. The workload for a grader is about 4 hours per week. Most of the courses now use Gradescope for homework submission and many former graders have said that it makes grading so much easier and more efficient! MRC Tutor The main duties of a MRC tutor is to help students with math questions related to their homework. The workload is one night a week for two hours. Our tutors find the work very rewarding! More detailed job descriptions for the UTA and graders (including the qualification and responsibilities) can be found by searching “find student jobs” in Workday. How to apply? Please read the job description carefully, and fill out both forms (the Workday application and the Google Form). Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis starting on May 6th. For full consideration, please submit your application by then. Interviews for the MTF program will take place during the week of May 23rd; interviews for other positions depend on the instructors teaching those courses. 1. Application Form in Workday 2. Google Form We hope that you'll consider joining the Math department teaching team this fall or in the near future (Check out our UTA website, coming soon)! Also in Department of Mathematics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Research Seminars Courses Events Positions Available Diversity & Inclusion Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mathematics Brown University Box 1917 151 Thayer Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2708 Fax: 401-863-9013 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat