Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning About Us History Mission Accreditation Diversity Degrees Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Bachelor's Programs Online Programs Certificates Minors Degrees by Department Admission Undergraduate Graduate Financial Contact Us People Administration Faculty Staff Students Undergraduate Graduate International Students Organizations Job & Internship Openings Well-Being Our Work Research Centers Projects Institutes Outreach Resources Happenings News Events Publications Social Media Friends & Giving GIVE TO SEHD Alumni & Volunteers Community Partners About Us Degrees Admission People Students Our Work Happenings Friends & Giving Search About Us History Mission Accreditation Diversity Degrees Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Bachelor's Programs Online Programs Certificates Minors Degrees by Department Admission Undergraduate Graduate Financial Contact Us People Administration Faculty Staff Students Undergraduate Graduate International Students Organizations Job & Internship Openings Well-Being Our Work Research Centers Projects Institutes Outreach Resources Happenings News Events Publications Social Media Friends & Giving GIVE TO SEHD Alumni & Volunteers Community Partners GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Home About Us AAA About Us The School of Education & Human Development consists of three departments: Educational and Psychological Studies, Kinesiology and Sport Sciences, and Teaching and Learning. Each department has unique and distinctive features. Educational and Psychological Studies (EPS), focuses on emotional health and psychological factors; Kinesiology and Sport Sciences (KIN) promotes physical wellness, fitness and sport; Teaching and Learning (TAL) fosters intellectual and educational development. Vision To be a center of excellence in the study, promotion, and integration of educational, psychological, and physical well-being in multicultural communities. Mission To produce knowledge and prepare the next generation of leaders, researchers, and agents of change and well-being in education and the community. Our History 1926 Education courses were offered at the university from the day its doors opened. 1929 Henry Skinner West joined the University of Miami faculty. “His primary role would be in the field of teacher education, but his services to the university would be legion.” He became Dean of the School of Education (and also Dean of the College of Liberal Arts) until 1940. 1941 Graduate courses in education were first offered. 1950's Over the years the scope and mission of the school has greatly expanded. The School of Education offered a four-year undergraduate program leading to a Bachelor of Education degree and a Master of Education degree. The programs offered were in elementary, secondary, health and physical education, and industrial education. 1954 Henry S. West Laboratory School opens. 1959 The School first offered a Doctor of Education and a Doctor of Philosophy degree. 1963 The University’s Graduate School was formed and provided oversight for all the university’s various graduate programs. 1969 The School underwent its largest expansion. It began offering programs in Education: Administration, Curriculum and Instruction; Educational Psychology; Elementary Education; Health, Physical Education and Recreation; and Industrial Education. 1972 By this time, the School offered graduate programs in Administration and Supervision; College Personnel Services, Early Childhood Education, Educational Research, Elementary Education, Guidance and Counseling, Physical Education and Recreation, Reading, School Library Services, Secondary Education, and Special Education. 1979 The School of Education became the School of Education and Allied Professions. 1984 All programs were consolidated under three departments: The Department of Teaching and Learning, Department of Physical Therapy, Exercise Science, and Sport Studies, and Department of Educational and Psychological Studies. 1986 The program in Physical Therapy moved to the School of Medicine, as a Division in the Department of Orthopaedics. The Department of Exercise and Sport Sciences remains with the School of Education today as the more appropriately named, Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences. 1988 Sport Administration program established. 1989 By this time, the School dropped “allied professions” from its name. 2011 The School became the "School of Education & Human Development" to better capture the idea of the wide-ranging scope of the educational and developmental activities contained within the mission of the school. 2013 The school’s Institute for Individual and Family Counseling moves into the Max Orovitz Building. 2019 School of Education and Human Development celebrates its 90th anniversary. Undergraduate and graduate degree, certificate, and minor programs offered by SEHD. Enrolled undergraduate and graduate students - Fall semester 2015. Full-time and part-time faculty teaching in the SEHD. Total credit hours taken by SEHD students for undergraduate and graduate credit Number of students who attend the school divided by the number of teachers Here at the SEHD, we are proud to have a racially and ethnically diverse student population. Accreditation Teacher Education Programs in the School of Education are approved by the Florida Department of Education. Kinesiology and Sport Sciences offers the Athletic Training Program which is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Athletic Training Education. The American Psychological Association accredits our Counseling Psychology Program offered by the Department of Educational and Psychological Studies. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Education and Human Development 5202 University Drive Merrick Bldg. Rm. 312 Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices