Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Learn More Predatory Drugs Certain drugs are more commonly used in incidents of drug facilitated sexual assaults, as well as in other crimes. These drugs are termed predatory drugs or sometimes "date rape" drugs. What are predatory drugs? GHB, rohypnol and ketamine have become known as "predatory" or "date rape" drugs because they are used to incapacitate someone for the purposes of committing a crime, often sexual assault. These drugs are odorless and colorless and can easily be slipped into someone's drink. They can cause dizziness, disorientation, loss of inhibition and a loss of consciousness. They can also produce amnesia, causing a victim to be unclear of what, if any, crime was committed. These drugs are particularly dangerous when combined with alcohol, although alcohol alone is still the drug most commonly associated with sexual assault. Alcohol When people hear the phrase "date rape drug," alcohol isn't usually what comes to mind. But, as these statistics show, the link between alcohol and campus sexual assaults is evident: 55% of female students and 75% of male students involved in acquaintance rape admit to having been drinking or using drugs when the incident occurred. 90% of all campus rapes occur when alcohol has been used by either the assailant or the victim. As many as 70% of college students admit to having engaged in sexual activity primarily as a result of being under the influence of alcohol, or to having sex they wouldn't have had if they had been sober. Understanding the effects of alcohol on your body, limiting your alcohol consumption and avoiding drinking games are some of the ways you can decrease the risk of sexual assault. Click here to read more about alcohol. GHB GHB stands for gamma hydroxybutyrate, a central nervous system sedative often referred to by other names such as "Grievous Bodily Harm" and "Liquid Ecstasy." GHB can produce drowsiness, dizziness, nausea, unconsciousness, seizures, severe respiratory depression, and coma. Overdose of GHB can occur quickly and can be fatal. Click here to read more about GHB. Rohypnol Rohypnol is a brand name for a powerful sedative that is often referred to as "roofies." Rohypnol is not legally available for prescription in the US and so just having it in your possession signals intent to commit a crime. Rohypnol may cause users to feel intoxicated; they may have slurred speech, impaired judgment, and difficulty walking. The effects are often felt within 10 minutes and can last up to 8 hours. Rohypnol can cause deep sedation, respiratory distress, and blackouts that can last up to 24 hours. Click here to read more about rohypnol. Ketamine Ketamine is an injectable anesthetic that is intended for veterinary use. It is also known as Special K, K, Vitamin K or Cat Valiums. At high doses, ketamine can cause delirium, amnesia, impaired motor function, high blood pressure, depression, and potentially fatal respiratory problems. Low-dose intoxication from ketamine results in impaired attention, learning ability, and memory. Click here to read more about ketamine. What can I do to minimize my risk? To help protect yourself from predatory drugs, follow these suggestions: Don't put your drink down. If your drink is out of sight, even for a few minutes, don't finish it. Get yourself a new one. Don't accept an open drink from anyone. If you order a drink in a bar, watch the bartender open the bottle or mix your drink. Avoid punch bowls. You don't know what's in the punch. If you feel any of the symptoms of a drug, get help immediately. Call EMS at 401.863-4111 or call 911. If you go to a hospital or emergency room, you can ask for a urine screening test. Though traces of the drug may still appear up to 72 hours after ingestion (depending on dosage, and individual metabolism) the chances of the screening picking up the signs of a drug are best when the sample is obtained quickly. Related Links To learn more about the connection between sexual assault and date rape drugs, you can read: Health Promotion: Sexual Assault About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment How to Help a Friend When someone has been sexually assaulted, chances are that they will turn to a friend for help. You are an important person to the survivor; this is why the survivor shared this experience with you. Knowing how to respond will be very helpful in your friend's recovery. This page offers guidance on how to best support your friend. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook