Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Cancer Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Brain Cancer Breast Cancer Cervical Cancer Colon Cancer Immunotherapy Prostate Cancer Radiation Skin Cancer Top Stories Lung Cancer Screening Program Launches at Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian The program brings together physicians and nurse practitioners from multiple disciplines to provide care for smokers and ex-smokers who are at high risk for lung cancer and other complications. Topic Campus News Let’s Talk About Sex… and Cancer Sexual dysfunction is common among female cancer patients but infrequently addressed. Columbia oncologist Christine Chin is working to change that. Wendy Chung on Genetics and Cancer Columbia geneticist Wendy Chung reflects on the progress made in cancer genetics and discusses the next frontier of using genetic information to design personalized cancer prevention strategies. Clinical Trial Finds Combination Therapy Has Promise for Gastric Adenocarcinoma Columbia cancer researchers estimate that 60% of patients in a phase 2 clinical trial will have no sign of their cancer two years after treatment with combination therapy. Latest News Columbia Accelerates Research into Next-Generation Radiation Therapies April 11, 2022 Heavy ions could radically improve radiation therapy for cancer treatment, but research is needed to understand how they work. With the aid of a new instrument at Columbia, scientists aim to find out. Topic Radiation Precision Therapy for Brain Cancer Shows Promise in Some Patients March 30, 2022 The study's findings underscore the importance of identifying different treatments for different subpopulations of glioma patients. Topic Brain Cancer Radiotherapy’s Radical Evolution: Q+A with Lisa A. Kachnic, MD March 24, 2022 Columbia's Lisa A. Kachnic, MD, a pioneer in radiation oncology, discusses the advancements made in the field of radiotherapy and the innovation to come. Colon Cancer Is Skewing Younger March 22, 2022 With colon cancer becoming more common in people under 50, screening guidelines have changed. Topic Campus News Engineering an “Invisible Cloak” for Bacteria to Deliver Cancer Drugs March 17, 2022 In the future, bacteria may be let loose in the body to seek and destroy cancer cells, but the bacteria need a way to hide from our immune system. Columbia biomedical engineers may have a solution. A Tribute to Early Women Pioneers in Cancer Research and Medicine March 17, 2022 In the early days of Columbia's cancer program, several incredible women physicians and scientists made key discoveries in the field. Treating Generations of Families with Colorectal Cancer By Elisabeth Geierst March 7, 2022 Having a rapport with kids is a critical part of the job for James Church and other Columbia colorectal surgeons who treat people with hereditary colon cancer. Topic Colon Cancer New Drug Combo Has Potential to Prevent Return of Lung Cancer March 3, 2022 Lung cancer often spreads to the brain. Columbia scientists have now uncovered a tactic used by metastases to hide in the brain and identified a drug combination that can potentially target them. Topic Brain Cancer Artificial Intelligence Predicts Success of Melanoma Treatment February 22, 2022 By applying artificial intelligence to standard-of-care imaging, Columbia cancer researchers can predict how well immunotherapy will work for patients with melanoma. Topic Data Science Promising Treatment for Deadly Brain Cancer February 4, 2022 A clinical trial led by a Columbia neuro-oncology team suggests that a new type of anti-cancer drug has promise for patients with glioblastoma. Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top