Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Princeton chemists find the surprisingly simple way mammals keep their bloodstream in balance Wendy Plump, Department of Chemistry March 1, 2022, 2:52 p.m. Joshua Rabinowitz, a professor of chemistry and the Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics and the director of the Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research Princeton Branch, is the principal investigator on new research quantifying how animals keep their blood chemistry in balance, a process known as metabolic homeostasis. Photo by Flynn Larsen for Ludwig Cancer Research Chemists tend to think of the human body as operating out of a sense-and-respond paradigm. For example, you eat sugar, the pancreas senses the intake, and it responds by releasing the hormone insulin to keep your glucose levels in check. Scientists have long wondered whether there is a similar regulatory strategy for clearing other metabolites, like amino acids, to keep blood levels in a healthy range. The short answer: Nope. in the current issue of Nature Metabolism, Joshua Rabinowitz, professor of chemistry and the Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics, reports with his research group that much of metabolic balance in animals doesn't require any sensing at all. Instead, a chemical principle known as mass action oversees the homeostasis, automatically clearing many of these circulating metabolites when they show up in the bloodstream without the production of a signal hormone. “In layman’s terms, when you eat a meal and you have an influx of amino acids from protein or acetate from vinegar, your body naturally adapts to clear the excess levels from the bloodstream. This happens simply, via chemical machinery that makes the nutrients go away in proportion to how abundant they are. It doesn’t take any regulation or sensing,” said Rabinowitz, who is also the director of the Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research Princeton Branch. This is the first quantitative study in animals to demonstrate the relationship of mass action to the preservation of homeostasis. “There are parts of biology, parts of our bodies, that work in a simple way. This is a nice example of that,” he said. “Things that are simple are robust, and this is probably part of why there aren’t a lot of people suffering from amino acid imbalance.” Circulating metabolites feed our organs a continuous supply of essential nutrients and building blocks. Understanding their regulation and control has important implications for the treatment of disease. In order to responsibly manipulate amino acid levels or carbocyclic acid levels to bolster the immune system or impair tumor growth, for example, we have to understand the basic rules by which these levels are governed. More broadly, Rabinowitz points out that the research illustrates how chemistry can illuminate and even solve longstanding biological questions. The lead author of the paper, Xiaoxuan (Athena) Li, is an advisee of Rabinowitz who earned her Ph.D. in 2021 with the Department of Molecular Biology. See the full story at the Department of Chemistry. Related Stories Everybody’s got a hungry heart Read more Rabinowitz leads research into cancer metabolism as director of new Ludwig Princeton Branch Read more Wake-up call: Researchers find sleepy fibroblasts are surprisingly lively Read more Malaria parasite zeroes in on molecule to enhance its survival, team finds Read more Mouse study reveals gut effects of too much fructose  Read more Princeton researchers discover link between circadian clock and fat metabolism Read more Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research and Princeton University partner to ‘push the frontiers’ on diet, metabolism and cancer Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice