Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Health Topics Mental Health and Well-Being Depression Depression While many people experience brief periods of sadness, these feelings are most often expectable reactions to the struggles and disappointments we all occasionally confront, and tend to get better over a relatively brief period of time. By contrast, someone with depression may experience feelings of extreme sadness, despair, or emptiness that continue for several weeks or longer. Depressed individuals often feel helpless and hopeless and may suffer from a sense of worthlessness and self-blame. People who are depressed may become overwhelmed and exhausted and stop participating in things they usually enjoy. They may withdraw from friends and lose interest in academic commitments. Even eating and sleeping patterns can change. Common Symptoms of Depression Avoiding social activities or not appearing to enjoy these activities Having trouble falling or staying asleep; sleeping too much Difficulty concentrating or finding that previously manageable tasks are now difficult Feeling hopeless and helpless Loss of self-worth Inability to control negative thoughts Loss of appetite or overeating Feeling irritable or easily frustrated Consuming more alcohol than normal or engaging in other reckless behavior Having thoughts that life is not worth living Depression varies from person to person. Experiencing a few of the symptoms described above does not necessarily imply you are clinically depressed, but if you are experiencing a cluster of these symptoms more days than not in an ongoing way, and they cause you a good deal of distress or interfere with your functioning , it may be that you are dealing with depression. Before these symptoms become overwhelming, it’s time to seek help. Depression... Affects people from ALL identities Affects a significant percentage of the population—it’s a common problem, not one that should cause embarrassment. Acute depressive episodes are more frequent among 18-29 year olds than among most other age groups Along with anxiety, is one of the most common reasons students go to CPS Is treatable Depression and Suicide Depression is a major risk factor for suicide. The deep despair and hopelessness that goes along with depression can make suicide feel like the only way to escape the pain. Thoughts of death or suicide may be a serious symptom of depression or another significant psychiatric problem, so take any suicidal talk or behavior seriously. It's not only a warning sign that the person is at risk of suicide: it's a way of expressing desperation and a need for help. Getting Help Talk with a professional experienced in helping individuals struggling with depression. Support may include individual or group counseling, among other strategies. The Counseling and Psychological Services team in Columbia Health is comprised of psychologists, psychiatrists, and social workers available to provide support through scheduled appointments, urgent concerns drop-in, problem-solving drop-in, or support spaces. Urgent Care After-hours, call 212-854-2878 for crisis support and recommendations for care. Visit our Coping Tools page for self-help and crisis resources for coping with concerns outside our regular hours of operation. Resources for Support Ulifeline self evaluator JED Foundation American Foundation for Suicide Prevention National Institute for Mental Health: Depression Basics National Institute for Mental Health: Depression and College Students American Psychiatric Association: What is Depression National Suicide Prevention Lifeline Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close