Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson.edu Public Service and Agriculture Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Research Extension About Giving The Clemson University Sheep Farm The Clemson University Sheep Farm is part of the Piedmont Research and Education Center and is located on Lebanon Road in Pendleton, SC about 10 miles southeast of Clemson University’s main campus. The Sheep Farm maintains a sheep flock which supports the Research, Teaching and Extension missions undertaken by the university. The 70 ewe flock is comprised primarily of the Suffolk and Texel breeds. Suffolks are a large breed and are known for their black head and legs and fast growing lambs. Texels are known for their remarkable muscle development and leanness. Both produce medium grade wool. The farm employs 4-6 students for much of the feeding and daily tasks so that they can gain hands-on experience with all aspects of sheep production and research. The farm consists of approximately 25 acres of pasture, a main barn for lambing, research, demonstration and teaching activities and a hay barn for stored feed and equipment. Pastures are a combination of perennial and annual forages which are managed to provide nutritionally appropriate forage throughout the production cycle. Lambing occurs primarily in the late winter and early spring so that spring forages can be utilized for lactating ewes and growing lambs. Ongoing areas of research include tall fescue effects and mitigation strategies, fetal growth and development and muscle development. Contact information: Maggie Miller, Farm Manager mmille6@clemson.edu 864.933.1679 Piedmont REC HOME Advisory Committee Research Farms LaMaster Dairy Center Morgan Poultry Center Musser Fruit Farm Organic Research Center Sheep Farm Simpson Research Farm History People Contact Us Crops and Equipment Virtual Field Day Summer Employment Opportunities For biosecurity reasons this property is not open to the public for drop in visits. If you would like to visit this farm, please use contact the farm manager for scheduling information: resfarm@clemson.edu Copyright © 2022 Clemson University College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences Clemson, SC Contact Us Emergency Preparedness For Employees Page Update Request