HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation ABOUT CSL&E ACCEPTED STUDENTS Welcome Week Orientation Orientation Ambassadors CURRENT STUDENTS Leadership and Service Student Organizations Student Involvement FAMILY PROGRAMS FACULTY & STAFF COMMUNITY MEMBERS For Faculty and Staff Clemson University’s Center for Student Leadership & Engagement serves the greater campus community by providing resources to faculty and staff related to leadership education, service learning, student engagement & involvement, student organizations, and much more. Resources for Leadership & Service Are you looking to engage with your students around topics of leadership and community engagement? Request a workshop from the Center for Student Leadership and Engagement! We cover a wide variety of topics including visioning and goal setting, introductions to community engagement and leadership, poverty simulations, StrengthsQuest Inventory, and much more. Interested in a different leadership or community engagement topic? You can also request a personalized workshop! Request here: http://bit.ly/CULead Resources for Registered Student Organizations & Advisors Registered Student Organization Policy & Related Procedures Student Organizations Resource Guides Current List of Registered Student Organizations (RSOs) by Category Need more help? Request a consultation Contact CSLE@clemson.edu 864-656-6252 Resources for Student Involvement Getting involved on campus is essential for a student’s academic success, social connections, well-being, and overall development. Do you know a student struggling to get involved or connected to campus? Here are resources available to faculty & staff to help promote student involvement, belonging, and engagement. PlaceFinder Involvement Quiz U-NITES! Consultation with a Student Organizaiton Consultant (Student to Student) Contact CSLE@clemson.edu CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster