Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Integrated Business, BSBA Experience Multiple Facets of Business and Achieve Success as a Business Leader Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Business Department(s) Integrated Business 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Gain the Skills and Experience Necessary to Serve in Diverse Roles within Organizations Many companies today require employees to manage a wide variety of programs across the business enterprise that require a robust, varied educational experience. As an integrated business major at UCF, you’ll focus on the critical business processes that cross industries and the transferable skills that can be applied to diverse roles. Your coursework will prepare you for life outside of the classroom, including how to interview well, fit seamlessly into organizations, as well as gain the knowledge, skills and abilities for career advancement. Although fully face-to-face, the integrated business program uses a unique flipped classroom approach in which you’ll engage with subject matter content online prior to coming to class. There are no textbooks; all content is curated by course instructors using a variety of open source materials and material acquired through campus licenses. There are also no lectures. Instead, team-based, active learning is employed in each of your classes every day. Your instructors will serve as your consultant, coach and mentor as you apply content to solve realistic business problems. You will graduate with both a broad understanding of business and strong financial, analytic and communication skills. Your learned experience in the major will not only help you land your first job after graduation, it will help prepare you for your next job and the one to follow. Upon earning your BSBA in Integrated Business, join other graduates who work in dozens of industries and in all functional areas of business. Our graduates are most prized by employers who seek multi-disciplinarians with excellent soft skills (teamwork, leadership, communication, etc.) who can wear multiple hats in an organization. Highlights Roughly 50% of UCF integrated business graduates stay in Orlando after earning their degree. UCF’s integrated business major is accredited by AACSB International, representing the highest standard of achievement for business schools worldwide. Occupations in integrated business are projected to grow roughly 10% through 2029. The median earnings for integrated business graduates is roughly $46,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Integrated Business Foundations Learn to apply critical transferable, career-enhancing skills including team work, leadership, conflict resolution, ethics, motivation, negotiation, and written and oral communication. Business Climate Analysis Examine the impact of external environmental changes on industries and individual businesses. Follows the PESTEL framework, considering political, economic, socio-cultural, technological, environmental and legal forces. Data Driven Decision Making Use public and private data to make informed business decisions. Includes issue identification, feasible solution generation, optimal decision selection, performance tracking and persuasive writing. View All Integrated Business Courses You’ll Take The integrated business program was developed by asking successful alumni what they wish they'd studied in business school that would have made a great career even better and asking employers of UCF graduates what skills they wish our graduates possessed. The result is a unique program in terms of content and delivery that will prepare students for the jobs available now and make sure they know how to pivot to new opportunities in the future." — Jim Gilkeson, chair of the Integrated Business Department Business Skills You’ll Learn Identify, evaluate and recommend modern technological solutions for contemporary business problems. Analyze and evaluate the selling approaches for small and medium size companies in B2C and B2B markets. Recognize a business problem, gather data needed to analyze it, select the appropriate analytical tool, perform the analysis and use the results to recommend an action or solution. Learn how to apply the principled negotiation process to reach a win-win solution when dealing with conflict. Understand the goals of your organization, acquire and analyze useful data, and determine the most competitive strategy to meet those goals. Career Opportunities Business Analyst Management Consultant Operations Manager Project Manager Recruiter (various areas) Sales Coordinator/Associate Account Coordinator/Customer Service Integrated Business, BSBA News Check out more stories Business & Economy Wriggle Brew ‘Worm Tea’ Fertilizer Wins at UCF’s 2022 Joust New Venture Competition Economics student Samuel Baker won for his concept, which also doubles as a pesticide. Business & Economy Metro Forecast: Florida Economy Must Weather ‘Monetary Policy Hurricane’ to Avoid Recession With the Federal Reserve making its first interest rate hike in three years in March, UCF’s Institute for Economic Forecasting predicts the 0.25% increase will… Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. Student Life Student Research Week: The Greater Good Ahead of Selfish Interests is Focus of Marketing Study Ph.D. student looks at how self-compassion creates longer lasting positive effects for donors in addition to fostering high prosocial behavior. Degree Search College of Business programs Bachelors Integrated Business (BSBA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Integrated Business (IB) degree is intended to develop a strong business "generalist" who has the ability and capacity to enter the workforce with a broad understanding of business and strong analytical, communication, and critical thinking skills. The program focuses on issues faced by small and medium size, privately held firms. Not eligible for a double degree or double major with another College of Business Administration major. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students wanting to major in Integrated Business must meet admission requirements for the major. A maximum of 6 credit hours of Core Requirements or Restricted Electives may count towards another degree program or minor. Any student receiving a business degree must complete a minimum of 30 of the 60 upper level business credit hours for their degree program in the UCF College of Business Administration. Additionally, 12 of the 30 credit hours completed at UCF must be from the department or school in which the student majors. Students in the Integrated Business major must maintain a 2.0 or higher cumulative Grade Point Average in all major courses taken at UCF and a 2.0 or higher cumulative GPA in all College of Business courses taken at UCF. Failure to maintain the required GPAs will result in the student being placed on Lack of Progress in the major and/or College. If a student on Lack of Progress fails to achieve the minimum required GPA in the subsequent term of enrollment, the student will be dismissed from the Integrated Business major and/or College of Business. A student who is dismissed may seek consideration for re-admittance into the College or major by submitting a letter indicating the reasons for academic difficulties and positive plans for achieving the required GPA. Readmission is not automatic or guaranteed and as an exception to College policy is rarely granted. Students majoring in Integrated Business must earn a grade of "C" or better in each course applied towards the major. This includes all courses under Common Program Prerequisites (CPP), Required Courses, and Restricted Electives listed below. This does not include Primary Core, Secondary Core, or Capstone requirements listed below. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 57 Total Credits Complete all of the following Primary Core Complete the following: ACG3173 - Accounting for Decision-Makers (3) QMB3200 - Quantitative Business Tools II (3) FIN3403 - Business Finance (3) MAN3025 - Management of Organizations (3) MAR3023 - Marketing (3) Secondary Core Complete the following: GEB3006 - Introduction to Career Development and Financial Plannings (3) GEB3005 - Career Search Strategy (1) BUL3130 - Legal and Ethical Environment of Business (3) MAR3203 - Supply Chain and Operations Management (3) GEB4223 - Business Interviewing Techniques (1) GEB4004 - Executing Your Career Plan (1) QMB3602 - Business Research for Decision Making (3) Required Courses Complete the following: GEB4522 - Data Driven Decision Making (3) GEB4513 - Applied Business Technologies (3) MAN3302 - Essentials of Human Resource Management for Integrated Business (3) GEB3031 - Integrated Business Foundations (3) MAR3407 - Integrated Marketing and Sales (3) ENT4412 - Managing Small Business Finances (3) MAN4583 - Project Management (3) GEB4451 - Business Climate Analysis (3) Restricted Electives Earn at least 3 credits from the following: GEB4941 - Integrated Business Internship (1 - 99) ENT3613 - Creativity and Entrepreneurship (3) GEB4104 - Small Business Development (3) Capstone Requirement 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: MAN4720 - Strategic Management (3) Admitted to a Business major, senior standing, and completion of MAN 3025, MAR 3023, FIN 3403, QMB 3200, ACG 3173, or ACG 3131 are required to register for MAN 4720. Grand Total Credits: 60 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida