Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Back To Registrar Curriculum Customer Services Academic Success Center FROM FOURTH CLASS TO FIRST CLASS CUSTOMER SERVICES Please send inquiries to our Customer Service inbox (dfvr.customerservice@afacademy.af.edu), leave a message on our main phone line (719) 333-3970, or send a fax (719) 333-6650. The Customer Services division of the United State Air Force Academy’s Registrar’s Office is responsible for cadet registration and scheduling, classroom scheduling, final exams, records management for active cadets and many aspects dealing with in-processing cadets and graduation. RECORDS REQUEST Requests for records, transcripts and other cadet-related information have no costs associated with them. DOWNLOAD REGISTRAR’S RECORDS REQUEST FORM Follow the instructions on the form for the record you are requesting, then mail, email or fax completed requests to: Student Academic Affairs and Academy Registrar 2354 Fairchild Drive, Suite 2G13 United States Air Force Academy, CO 80840 dfvr.customerservice@afacademy.af.edu Fax: (719) 333-6650 INVESTIGATOR OR VERIFICATIONS Requests for verifications, transcripts and other cadet-related information have no costs associated with them at this time. Complete the cover sheet below, in its entirety. Fax cover sheet and signed release(s) to 719-333-6650. If you only need a verbal verification please call 719-333-3970. DOWNLOAD INVESTIGATOR/BACKGROUND CHECK FAX FORM PERSONAL INFORMATION UPDATE Only cadets can update their personal information. Visit the Office of the Registrar’s Customer Service desk to make these updates or you can use CAMIS (Cadet Administrative Management Information System) to update certain records, including parents’ addresses and phone numbers, privacy information and disclosure waivers, graduation name and name pronunciations. VALIDATION AND TRANSFER CREDIT Validation credit is awarded to students who: Received fours or fives on the College Board’s Advanced Placement exams Took IB/International Baccalaureate exams Scored appropriately on placement exams (given to incoming cadets in certain subjects during their first week at the Academy) Discretion is up to individual academic departments. Transfer credit may be awarded to cadets for courses taken at other colleges and preparatory schools. Please send transcripts to: Admissions Office HQ USAFA/RRS 2304 Cadet Drive, Suite 2300 United States Air Force Academy CO 80840 1-800-443-9266 If your official transcript is not available until after you arrive at the Academy, transcripts can be mailed to: Office of the Registrar HQ USAFA/DFR 2354 Fairchild Drive, Suite 2G13 United States Air Force Academy CO 80840 Records Request Request Transcripts, Replacement Diplomas and More DOWNLOAD REGISTRAR’S RECORDS REQUEST FORM ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.