Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Office of Education Admissions and Financial Aid Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Staff Staff Office of Admissions and Financial Aid Clare R. Norton Associate Dean for Enrollment Management The Office of Admissions and Financial Aid is here to assist you from the beginning of your interest in our programs to the point of admission. Our staff is available by appointment or for walk-ins to answer your inquiries one-on-one. Whether it's discussing any specific area of your admissions application, walking through the different types of financial aid you may be eligible to receive, or getting assistance in creating a budget for school and living expenses, our staff is here to help. Do you have questions on what departments look for in a candidate? Are you unsure of which program would be the best fit for you? Are you interested in learning more about upcoming information sessions or open house events? Do you have concerns on financial aid options? Throughout the application process, our office is here to assist. CONTACT US UPDATE: Due to the current COVID-19 pandemic and social distancing guidelines, all Admissions and Financial Aid staff are working remotely with no access to telephones. If you would like to schedule an appointment with Admissions or Financial Aid, please click on this link. Stop by the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid on the north end of the lobby level of the Allan Rosenfield Building (722 West 168th Street, 10th Floor), or reach Admissions at ph-admit@columbia.edu and Financial Aid at sphfinaid@columbia.edu. Our office is open Monday-Friday from 8am-5pm. For more information on the application process and degree offerings, please see Become a Student. Mailing Address Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 722 W 168th Street, Suite 1014 New York, NY 10032 More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Gun Violence Prevention Experts Respond to Mass Shootings May 27 2022 Our Experts Help Explain the Monkeypox OutbreakMay 26 2022 A Q&A With Prof. Merlin ChowkwanyunMay 24 2022 Sign up for Transmission Interested in changing the world? Apply Today Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers