Skip To Top Navigation Skip To Main Content Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Careers AskHR Current Employees HR Self Service Kronos Login COVID-19 Resources Employee Assistance Program Benefits and Well-being Tigers at Work Payroll Training and Development Performance Management Staff and Faculty Relations Transition and Separation International Employment Talent Acquisition Employment Verification HR Resource Library HR Policies and Procedures HR Service Teams Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook search Tigers At Work Welcome To Clemson University! Congratulations on your decision to pursue your career at a Carnegie-designated Tier One public research university right in the upstate of South Carolina. Intellectual curiosity and a passion for impacting the world are what drive our Clemson University Community. We are excited by the energy and spirit you bring to our team! Tigers at Work is your go-to resource as you get started at Clemson University. On this page, you will learn about the things you need to do prior to your start date and what you can expect on your first day of work and beyond, resources available, discounts and perks for Clemson faculty and staff, and more. Welcome Video Get Started Before You Arrive Day Two and Beyond Stay Engaged Discounts and Perks Contact and Resources Careers Ask-HR Current Employees Search Menu Quick Links Featured Links Updated! Faculty and Staff Discounts/Perks Kronos Login Kronos: Time and Attendance Information New Employee Benefit Summary Pre-Counseling Worksheet Contact a Benefits Counselor Payroll: New Hire Communication Payroll dates Semi-Monthly Paychecks HR Self Service (View Paycheck, Benefits, etc) Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Human Resources Ask HR Change of Address Ethics Line Holiday Schedule International Employment HR Policies Links for Before Your First Day Computing Help Experience Clemson Faculty and Staff Schedule a Campus Tour Email View Local Lodging Clemson Faculty & Staff IT Resources Telephone Services for Staff Academic Resources Academic Calendar Course Evaluation Curriculum and Course Change System eTPR - Tenure, Promotion and Reappointment FBIS - Faculty Business Information Systems Libraries Academic Reporting Units Faculty Senate Care Network Office of Teaching Effectiveness and Innovation Interfolio (Faculty Job Opportunities) Clemson Chapter of the American Association of University Professors - AAUP Faculty Candidate Resource Guide Clemson Online Policies and Procedures Campus Policies and Procedures Faculty Manual Title IX Weather Policy Campus Life Places to eat on campus Safety and Emergency Information Joseph F. Sullivan Center SC Botanical Gardens 55 Exchange Geology Museum Planetarium Athletics Campus Recreation Join IPTAY Preparing for Your First Day We are excited you’ve decided to join Clemson and look forward to seeing you on your start date. To ensure a smooth transition, the Office of Human Resources (OHR) recommends completing the following tasks prior to starting your new job. One of our HR Service Representatives will notify you via email with instructions to make an appointment to facilitate completion of new hire forms. During this appointment, your service representative will assist with completion of your new hire forms and answer questions you may have regarding your first day. In the meantime, here are some things for you to review before your first day but no immediate action is required: 1. Completing Form I-9 Download I-9 Form Gather the documents needed to establish your identity; a list of documents are shown on page 4 of the form. By law, the University must verify your employment eligibility no later than your first day of work. Remember to bring original documents, as copies are not acceptable. Section 1 of the form I-9 must be completed on or before the hire date; Section 2 must be completed no later than 3 days after the hire date. Work with your human resources service representative to complete your Employee Information and Attestation portion of Form I-9. 2. Attain parking decal. Use one of two methods. Attain a permanent parking decal by completing the Parking Permit Application and the Pre-Tax Parking Payroll Deduction form and visiting Parking Services (ph. 864-656-2270) in G-01 Edgar Brown Union, (see map). Student and intermittent employees are not eligible to pay for parking pre-tax. Attain a 15-day temporary parking pass online; Parking Services will follow up by mailing you your permanent parking decal prior to your temporary parking pass expiring. Use these steps to print your 15-day temporary parking pass: Visit the Parking Services website. Click Manage My Account. Log in using your username. Select Purchase Permit. (If the system does not state that you are authorized to purchase a parking decal online, please follow instructions highlighted section) above. Click next. Select Permit Type (vehicle, motorcycle, etc.), read and click on agreements. Click next. Link your vehicles. You may link up to 3 cars and one motorcycle. The parking decal is repositionable, so you can move it from vehicle to vehicle. Click next. Select Shipping Address; confirm or modify your address. Click next. Select a payment type and choose between online payroll deduction or credit card. Click Pay Now. Print your 15-day, temporary parking pass and place it inside your car on the driver’s side of the dashboard. 3. Explore your commute/parking options using our Campus Map. New Employee Spotlight Clemson is welcoming new employees on record levels! Explore a sampling of new employees who have joined our ranks in the last few months! Welcome Tigers. Past New Employee Spotlights Welcome Jeannie Sanders and Benjamin Paulsen Welcome Cassi Bowen and Rushawnda Olden Welcome Theresa McWilliams and Keith Hudgins Welcome Dentaveous Walker Welcome Sarah David and Jamie Rutherford to Clemson Welcome Gregory Ball Cassi Bowen "I am so excited to be around the Clemson Family. Everyone is so friendly and motivated towards a common goal. There is so much growth that's occurring here and so many opportunities!" Rushawnda Olden "I'm excited about getting to know more people who are passionate about advancing and empowering youth as well as expanding the legacy of Senator Pinckney." Day Two and Beyond During your first few weeks, you will complete any remaining required paperwork and training, sign up for New Employee Orientation, have an opportunity to review and elect your employee benefits, meet your colleagues and more. Some of your first few week’s activities include these important steps. Clemson University uses several functions within Employee Self Service (ESS) to input, maintain, and access payroll information. Active faculty and staff members can access ESS to setup and maintain their Direct Deposit account(s), make changes to their W-4 (Employee’s Withholding Allowance Certificate), view their online paystubs, sign up for electronic W-2s, view W-2 year-end statements, and access Paycheck Modeler to calculate changes in their pay, deductions, or taxes. 1. Setup Direct Deposit All faculty and staff members are required to have 100 percent of their net pay directly deposited into a bank account. Setting up direct deposit within 10 days of your official start date is a required step in the onboarding process. Click below for detailed instructions regarding setting up direct deposit and completing other Employee Self Service steps. Instructions 2. Complete your W-4 Tax Withholding Certificate On your hire date, the system defaults your W-4 Tax Withholding Certificate to a marital status of “Single” with “0” exemptions. Changes to the default may be completed the day after your official start date. To change the default, follow the instructions provided on the W-4 Links and Instructions webpage. 3. Attain your TigerOne Card, Clemson’s official ID card. You must be officially hired before Clemson will issue you a TigerOne card. Pick up your TigerOne Card (8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday) at the TigerOne Card Services office. Bring a valid government-issued photo identification (i.e: driver’s license, passport, military ID). You will need your username and password. Remember to carry your TigerOne card with you at all times. Many departments use the TigerOne card to grant access to their building, information and services. You can use it to check out library books, receive discounts on computer software, etc. Your TigerOne card has the following benefits: Official Clemson University ID card Personal declining balance card to access pre-deposited funds in a TigerStripe account Library access Fike Recreation Center access (for members) Olympic athletic events access Athletic ticket privileges for football and basketball Not located on the main campus? Employees located in South Carolina but not on the main campus may have their TigerOne cards sent to the nearest liaison. TigerOne cards cannot be mailed to you directly; they must be sent to one of our TigerOne Off-Campus Liaisons. Follow the Photo Submission Guidelines link for submitting your photo online. Once your photo is approved, send an email to tigeronecard@clemson.edu with your name, CUID number, and the liaison in which you are requesting us to send your TigerOne card. Also, please email the TigerOne Liaison letting them know to be expecting your card. Once requested, TigerOne cards will be sent twice per month to the TigerOne Liaison. Off-Campus Liaisons 4. Sign up to attend the New Faculty and Staff Orientation. You will discover Clemson University's rich history and culture, learn about benefits offerings, get all your questions answered, enjoy a memorable networking luncheon at one of the University’s dining halls, a campus tour and more. View a list of available Orientation dates and locations, and register. 5. Tasks to complete within your first 30 days. Once you are settled and have your required forms completed, there are several additional items that need your attention. While you may have attended the one-day New Employee Orientation, your onboarding will continue throughout your first year of employment to help you fully transition into your new role at Clemson. During your first 30 days, the following tasks will need your attention: Complete the required training and acknowledgments within the first 10 days of employment. Access Clemson University's Training Management System, Bridge, for your required trainings and acknowledgments: https://clemson.bridgeapp.com Use your Clemson username and password to login Select your employee benefits. You can review what’s included in your new benefits package by accessing your personalized Benefits Information for New Employees webpage. This customized online resource is available to walk you through your new benefits package so you can easily take advantage of all there is to offer. There is a 30-day deadline from your date of hire to make benefit elections as a new employee. Accessing your online resources You will soon receive an email from Vivian Morris, Clemson's director of employee retention and engagement, welcoming you to the University and providing you access to your personalized new employee benefits webpage. You can also access your new employee benefits webpage from the Workforce Benefits and Well-being website. Scroll down and select “Benefits Information for New Employees” on the left side of the page (you’ll need your new Clemson University credentials to log in). Making your benefits elections After you’ve reviewed your benefits package offerings, it’s time to make elections! You have 30 days from your hire date to enroll. From your new employee benefits webpage, you'll be provided details on how to enroll or refuse participation in your benefits. Important! For each family member you wish to cover either as a dependent or beneficiary, please be ready to supply names, dates of birth, and social security numbers, along with the following documentation: Spouse – marriage license or first page of most current federal tax return if filed jointly; Dependent Children (under age 26) – long form birth certificate. You will be asked to upload your documentation as you complete your online enrollment. Stay Engaged, Informed and Involved Working at Clemson has Benefits, Rewards, and Recognition. Connect and engage with your colleagues by joining one of our Senates, Commissions, or Groups and participating in some of our events. The Employee Resource Fair is an annual event hosted during the month of May by the Office of Human Resources. This event allows employees to explore vendor tables to learn about resources, discounts and perks of being a Clemson employee, learn about additional benefits you can use and sign up for the many prizes available. The Board of Trustees recognizes faculty and staff’s commitment and dedication to Clemson University by acknowledging the high levels of service achieved by University personnel during the annual Board of Trustee Award for Excellence. In observance of State Employee Appreciation, Clemson University hosts luncheons to recognize and appreciate on-campus and satellite campus employees. Clemson University recognized approximately 200 faculty and staff, who earned a degree while working at Clemson during our Inaugural Faculty Staff Degree Recognition Luncheon. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr Excellence in Service Award has been awarded for more than 17 seventeen years. The Pro-Benefits Expo is a conference hosted during the month of October by the Office of Human Resources. This event includes facilitated educational sessions, allows employees to have access to vendors who offer information on insurance, retirement, leave, tuition assistance and wellness benefits. Faculty Senate serves as the official representative body of the faculty and the link between faculty and administration. Staff Senate serves as the official representative body of the staff and the link between staff and administration. President’s Commission on the Status of Women at Clemson University was established to improve the quality of life for women at Clemson. Stay in touch by following Clemson HR and other departments on Social Media sites. Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram Youtube Clemson News Frank A. Burtner award winner goes above and beyond for students Land-Grant Press publications provide vital knowledge from Clemson Cooperative Extension program areas $2 million gift endows Clemson University Wood Utilization + Design Institute directorship Roots of native grasses may hold key to growing crops in drier climates More News Upcoming Events AUG 22 General Faculty Meeting 10:30 am to 12:00 pm Memorial Stadium (Death Valley) More Events Faculty and Staff Discounts and Perks Among the many benefits of working at Clemson are the deals and discounts available to employees. Staff and faculty can take advantage of many of these perks simply by identifying yourself as a Clemson employee, which may include showing your employee identification. Check out the discounts and perks webpage for more information. Discounts and Perks Additional Resources Moving to South Carolina If you are a licensed driver and come into South Carolina from another state to establish a permanent residence, you must apply for a South Carolina driver license. If you own any vehicles they must also be registered in our state. You can use a valid driver’s license issued by the state from which you moved for 90 days, after which time you must surrender it and obtain a South Carolina driver license. See list of documents required to obtain a South Carolina driver's license, beginner's permit or identification card here. If you move to S.C. from another state, you have 45 days to transfer your vehicle title and registration. See Transferring Your Out of State Vehicle License for more information. Driver’s License Vehicle Registration Pickens County Public Schools SC School Report Cards State Symbols Tax Guide for New Residents Voter Registration South Carolina Utilities, Electric Cooperatives, and Power Companies Blue Ridge Electric Coop – 864-878-6326 Duke Energy – 864-654-7128 Fort Hill Natural Gas – 864-859-6375 Clemson University Visitors Center Visit the City of Clemson Clemson Chamber of Commerce Child Care Facilities Near Clemson Campus Resources CCIT Tech Support ClemsonForward Diversity and Inclusion Ombuds Office 365 CCIT- Technology Resources & Training Provost Office University Libraries Places to eat on campus Safety and Emergency Information Joseph F. Sullivan Center Meet the Engagement and Retention Team Vivian L. Morris Director of Engagement and Retention vivian@clemson.edu Phone: 864.656.2723 Sierra D. Holland Engagement and Retention Analyst sdholla@clemson.edu Phone: 864.656.9844 Sunny Burch Engagement and Retention Specialist sunserb@clemson.edu Phone: 864.656.9753 Pablo Unda International Employment Manager punda@clemson.edu Phone: 864.656.5591 Virginia Tawse International Employment Coordinator vtawse@clemson.edu Phone: 864.656.9890