Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Business, Entrepreneurship and Organizations Graduate Research | Hazeltine Fellowships Business, Entrepreneurship and Organizations Graduate Research | Hazeltine Fellowships BEO is proud to support graduate research related to entrepreneurship. Since 2009, BEO has administered grants to Brown graduate students through the Hazeltine Fellowship for entrepreneurship research by graduate students who are either collaborating with faculty or under the guidance of a faculty member. The Hazeltine Fellowship may fund dissertation-related research or provide seed funds for initiating a new topic of research with a faculty member. Up to three fellowships are awarded each year to promising Ph.D. and master's students enrolled at Brown. Hazeltine Fellows 2021-2022 Alejandra Irene Cueto Piazza, Ph.D. Candidate in Sociology Alejandra Irene Cueto Piazza, Ph.D. Candidate in Sociology Alejandra Cueto is a doctoral student in the Sociology Department at Brown University, affiliated to the Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies (CLACS) and to the Graduate Program in Development at the Watson Institute. She holds a BA degree in Sociology from the Pontificia Universidad Catolica del Peru and a MA degree in Sociology from Columbia University in New York City. Her research addresses the interface between cultural sociology, development, and immigration. Specifically, she is interested in understanding immigrant workers' experiences in the informal economy and as entrepreneurs. Also, she is interested in the categorization by international organizations and national bureaucracies of entrepreneurship and the informal economy as separate sectors. She has also researched the experiences of immigrant street vendors in NYC. Before her studies in the US, she conducted research on labor inspections in Lima, Perú, and the role of doctors' unions across Peru. Alejandra Cueto will conduct preliminary dissertation research on the creation of economic categories such as "popular economy", entrepreneurship, and informal economy. Her study will investigate how race, gender, and migration status play a role in the categorization of entrepreneurship and how this affects their access to resources and knowledge. More specifically, the study will examine how the state, national, and international organizations help build boundaries between those who belong to the informal sector and those who claim to be entrepreneurs. For her project, she will conduct interviews with informal workers and entrepreneurs in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Juan Pedro Ronconi, Ph.D. Candidate in Economics Juan Pedro Ronconi, Ph.D. Candidate in Economics Juan Pedro’s research focuses on entrepreneurship and online commerce in Latin America. He studies the role played by different factors that affect performance of small businesses that sell online. These factors include behavioral & informational constraints in the adoption of good business practices, expectations regarding own performance and the evolution of macroeconomic variables, and the Covid-19 shock. His work builds on a collaborative relationship with one of the largest platforms for online commerce in Latin America, which, among other things, allows for the possibility of running a randomized controlled trial on a large sample of businesses to test different hypotheses around these topics. This research will improve our understanding of what drives performance of small businesses in online commerce, which is a rapidly growing sector in the developing world. It will also provide experimental evidence based on a large sample of businesses, a feature that is mostly lacking in the literature. Overview In terms of substance, the Fellowship’s purpose is to advance the study of entrepreneurship on the graduate level at Brown University. Proposed projects should include a section that explicitly addresses the expected impact of the project. This could vary from a final-stage deliverable such as a Ph.D. dissertation or publication to an earlier-stage outcome such as the presentation of work in a seminar or lecture. Under either option, funded students are expected to disseminate their work and make presentations before the BEO faculty in late spring of 2021. To advance BEO’s goals, the faculty review committee will give priority to proposals that are interdisciplinary. Awards in past years have averaged between $5,000-8,000. The proposal should explicitly link the graduate student and one or more faculty members and be submitted jointly, reflecting either independent research carried out under faculty supervision or the exploration of a new research field with a faculty member. To Apply Applications for the 2021-22 acdemic year will be accepted beginning in April 2021. To apply submit the following by June 1, 2021 by 5:00 pm via email to [email protected] with Hazeltine Fellowship Proposal 2021-22 in the subject line: Your most current CV. A written proposal, no longer than 5 pages in length which should include the scope of your proposed research a budget and timeline. HAZELTINE FELLOWS | ARCHIVE Recipient, Title (at time of award) Faculty Sponsor Research Topic Award Year Alejandra Irene Cueto Piazza, Ph.D. Candidate in Sociology Daniel Hirschman, Ph.D. Understanding immigrant worker's experiences in the informal economy as entrepreneurs. 2022 Juan Pedro Ronconi, Ph.D. Candidate in Economics Pedro Dal Bo, Ph.D. Andrew Foster, Ph.D. Brian Knight, Ph.D. Entrepreneurship and online commerce in Latin America 2022 Ashley Gomez, Ph.D. Candidate in Public Health Jennifer Nazareno, Ph.D. Health of Entrepreneurial Migrant Latina Direct Care Workers 2021 Ieva Zymbyte, Ph.D. Candidate in Sociology Patrick Heller, Ph.D. Public Childcare, Women’s Work and Entrepreneurship 2021 Rui Carvalho, Ph.D. Candidate in Sociology Leah VanWay, Ph.D. Laura Lopez Sanders, Ph.D. The Colors of Immigrant Entrepreneurship: Racism and the Entrepreneurship of Brazilians in Boston and Lisbon 2020 A. Nicole Kreisberg, Ph.D. Candidate in Sociology Margot Jackston, Ph.D. The hiring Prospects of Latinos in Entrepreneurial firms 2020 Kristen McNeill, Ph.D. Candidate in Sociology Andrew Schrank, Ph.D. Genered Evaluations, Generered Effects: A Bank-to-Houshold Approach to Studying Gender and Credit 2020 Elizabeth Brennan, Ph.D. Candidate in Sociology Mark Suchman, Ph.D. Autonomy Disrupted: Professions’ Perception of Autonomy Following the Implementation of an Electronic Health Record 2019 Xiaoqian (Clare) Wan, Ph.D. Candidate in Sociology Daniel Hirschman, Ph.D. African Entrepreneurs in China 2019 Emily Wanderer, Master's Candidate in Integrative Studies - Social Justice & Organizational Development Michael Kennedy, Ph.D., Banu Ozkazanc-Pan, Ph.D. Understanding Diversity and Inclusion in Social-Entrepreneurial Ecosystems 2019 Felipe Brugués, Ph.D. Candidate in Economics Jesse Shapiro, Ph.D. Rafael LaPorta, Ph.D. Multi-firm Entrepreneurs in Developing Economies 2018 Ann Daly, Ph.D. Candidate in History Seth Rockman, Ph.D. “Engines of Growth: American mining Firms and the U.S. Min in 19thC America” 2018 Kathrinne Duffy, Ph.D. Candidate in American Studies Steven Lubar, Ph.D. “Doctrine of the Skull: Phrenology and Public Culture in Antebellum America” 2018 Jennifer Bouek, Ph.D. Candidate in Sociology Josh Pacewicz, Ph.D. “The Markets of Child Care – Studying the Dynamic Conditions under which Entrepreneurial Daycare Ventures are Founded and Variant Childcare Markets Emerge” 2017 Hannah Marshall, Ph.D. Candidate in Anthropology Sarah Bestky, Ph.D. Mark Suchman, Ph.D. “Entrepreneurial Justice Female Ugandan Ex-prisoners in European-funded Entrepreneurship Training Programs? 2017 Jeongbin Kim, Ph.D. Candidate in Economics Louis Putterman, Ph.D. Corporate Social responsibility and Quality of Performance of Employees: An online Field Experiment 2016 Johnnie Lotesta, Ph.D. Candidate in Sociology Josh Pacewitz, Ph.D. The Political Entrepreneurship of Right to Work 2016 Alicia Maggard, Ph.D. Candidate in History Seth Rockman, Ph.D. Technology, Society and the State in the Steamboat Era 2016 Morgan Hardy, Ph.D Candidate in Economics Andrew Foster Information Diffusion in a Competitive Environment: Experimental Evidence from garment makers in Ghana 2015 Jeongbin Kim, Ph.D Candidate in Economics Louis Putterman Corporate Social Responsibility and Quality of performance of Employees: An Online field Experiment 2015 Lindsay Schakenback Regele, Ph.D. Candidate in History Seth Rockman Manufacturing Advantage: War, State and the Origins of American Industrialization 2015 Elizabeth Bennet, Ph.D. Candidate in Political Science Mark Blythe, Ph.D. Gianpaolo Giaocchi, Ph.D. Nina Tannenwald, Ph.D. “Fair Trade Enterprise: Collaborative or Exclusive Leadership?” 2014 Heather Lee, Ph.D. Candidate in American Studies Robert Lee, Ph.D. “Creation of a Database on Historical Chinese Restaurants in the United States” 2014 Gareth Olds, Ph.D. Candidate in Economics Kenneth Chay, Ph.D. “Entrepreneurship and the Social Safety Net” 2014 Aisalkyn Botoeva, Ph.D. Candidate in Sociology Mark Suchman, Ph.D. “The Islamic Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism? How Hybrid Forms of Financial Enterprises Enter New Markets” 2013 Nicholas Coleman, Ph.D. Candidate in Economics Ross Levine, Ph.D. The interaction between the government and private enterprises, specifically on government banks in Brazil during the recent financial crisis. 2012, 2013 Jacob Goldston, Ph.D. Candidate in Economics Kaivan Munshi, Ph.D. “The Impact of Local Politicians in Microlending” 2012 Mim Plavin, Ph.D. Candidate in Sociology Mark Suchman, Ph.D. “Making the Imagined Real: How Institutional Entrepreneurs Transform Public Spaces” 2012 Yong Suk Lee, Ph.D. Candidate in Economics Vern Henderson, Ph.D. “The Impact of Entrepreneurship on Local Economic Growth” 2012 Tomislav Ladika, Ph.D. Candidate in Economics Ivo Welch, Ph.D. “Do investors provide managers with effective incentives?” 2011 Ishani Tiwari, Ph.D. Candidate in Economics David Weil, Ph.D. “Is Small Beautiful? An Evaluation of India’s product reservation policy for small-scale enterprises” 2011 Todd Bridges, Ph.D. Candidate in Sociology Mark Suchman, Ph.D. “The Contracting Universe: The Role of Law Firms in the Development of Venture capital Financing Practices in Silicon Valley” 2010 Batsaikhan Mongoljian, Ph.D. Candidate in Sociology Andrew Foster, Ph.D. “The Contracting Universe: The Role of Law Firms in the Development of Venture capital Financing Practices in Silicon Valley” 2010 Abdel G. Mustafa, Ph.D. Candidate in Engineering 2009 Home People BEO Concentration The BEO Capstone BEO Concentration FAQs and Tips Business Pathways @ Brown Graduate Research Print this Page Share this Page Sayles Hall, Suite 015 Brown University Box 1922 79-81 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-6348 Fax 401-863-6415 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Programs Program in Management and Entrepreneurship IE Brown Executive MBA Department of Sociology Department of Economics School of Engineering Get Involved BEO DUG Entrepreneurship Program BEO Newsletter | Subscribe Here Jonathan M. Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship