Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityAccessible Technology at Marquette Accessible Technology at Marquette Our Responsibility Accessibility Resources Tutorials and Guides Frequently Asked Questions Closed Captioning Office of Disability Services Department of Digital Learning Raynor Memorial Libraries Accessible Technology Policy Contacts Electronic Information and Technology Marquette University is committed to creating and sustaining a diverse environment that is both equitable and inclusive by ensuring university resources are accessible to people of all abilities. To this end, the university has identified the importance of creating a culture of inclusion, one of Marquette’s strategic goals. In an effort to achieve an inclusive and accessible environment, Marquette has formed the Electronic Technology Accessibility Committee (ETAC), to ensure Electronic Information and Technology (EIT) is accessible to all members of the Marquette community and beyond. In response to feedback from the University Climate Study, with human dignity and social justice at the forefront, Marquette University aims to create and maintain digital accessibility through adherence to this EIT policy. What is Electronic Information and Technology Accessibility? Marquette’s goal is to make its electronic information and technology accessible, which means people with disabilities can perceive, navigate, understand, interact and contribute electronically in ways that are similar to their non-disabled peers. All information provided through the university’s websites, online course platforms, and learning environment will be accessible to students, prospective students, employees, guests and visitors with disabilities, particularly those with visual, hearing, and/or manual impairment or who otherwise require the use of assistive technology. Why is Electronic Information and Technology Accessibility important? The number of students with disabilities attending Marquette continues to grow year after year. Over the past five years, the Office of Disability Services has seen a 56.6 percent increase in the number of students self-identifying as having a disability and needing accommodations. Individuals with visual, hearing, cognitive and mobility impairments are most affected by inaccessible electronic material and each require certain types of adaptation to EIT. When making these adaptations, the material being presented becomes much more accessible to many different types of learners, not just those with disabilities. Quick Links Accessibility Resources Our responsibility Contacts Accessible Technology Policy PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact emily.newell@marquette.edu. Location Marquette University 1250 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (800) 222-6544 Key Resources español Employment Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu COVID-19 Information eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©