Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution Advance your skills in mediating and resolving disagreements in the workplace with the Graduate Certificate in Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution in the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication at Temple University. This 12-credit certificate program provides graduate students with an in-depth understanding of cultural and professional dispute causes and enhances communication, management and conflict resolution techniques. Though workplace conflicts are common, having a professional who can manage and mitigate the dispute benefits productivity, workflow and the organizational environment. Through the program, students learn to design, examine and utilize conflict management and dispute resolution systems in their various organizations and fields, including industries such as government, healthcare, higher education and the private sector. Delivery Method The Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution certificate program is held entirely online, making it ideal for conflict specialists, human resource managers, leaders and other working professionals. The online format provides students with easy access to resources, flexibility in submitting assignments, and the ability to communicate with instructors and classmates in a virtual space. And, like these other certificates, courses in this program can count toward the Communication Management MS should you want to pursue a master’s degree. Program Format & Curriculum Classes for the Graduate Certificate in Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution are held entirely online and can be completed in one year when taken synchronously. Students enrolled on a part-time basis can take up to two years to complete the program. The 12-credit, four-course program is comprised of the following classes. Conflict Management Processes in the Workplace Cross-Cultural Leadership Designing Workplace Dispute Systems Leadership in Crises and Conflict Management Learn more about the Graduate Certificate in Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution courses. Related Graduate Certificates Public Relations Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Klein College of Media and Communication faculty. Program Contact For more information about the Graduate Certificate in Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution, please contact Kaitlin Pierce, associate director of the graduate office. Email: kaitlin.pierce@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-8560 Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. CO-CMDR-GRAD Additional Program Information Available online. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info