Skip Top Navigation null More details Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Finance & Administration Twitter Youtube Facebook 603-646-0459Financial.Administration@Dartmouth.eduMail Home Menu About Us Finance & Administration Division Leadership News & Updates Committees Initiatives SearchClose Search Search Committees Advisory Committee on Investor Responsibility Mission The principle mission of the Dartmouth College Advisory Committee on Investor Responsibility (ACIR) is to study proxy resolutions relating to important social issues and to make recommendations to Dartmouth College on how it should vote specific proxy resolutions for U.S. companies in which the College holds publicly traded shares. In addition, ACIR is charged with making recommendations to Dartmouth College regarding: the desirability of disclosing information regarding the College’s investment portfolio to its constituencies; the process by which the College determines its position with respect to proxy resolutions and the practices the College employs to express its positions; the guidance, if any, that the College’s investment advisors should be given to avoid selection of investment positions that could be deemed inconsistent with Dartmouth’s mission; and the possibilities for education of students and other interested parties regarding the goals and constraints of the College’s investment portfolio. ACIR meets throughout the year to accomplish its missions. ACIR meets on a weekly basis from late March through May, the period during which most proxy resolutions are voted upon, at which time it makes the great majority of its recommendations. ACIR is in the process of developing guidelines so that it can make voting recommendations to the College throughout the year. Policies Disclosure Policy Members of the Dartmouth community may review a hard copy list of publicly traded securities registered in Dartmouth College’s name by visiting the Office of Investments between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Members of the Dartmouth community include students, faculty, administrators, and alumni. Abstention Policy Dartmouth College owns shares in hundreds of corporations which are publicly traded. It is anticipated that well over 150 shareholder initiated social issues area proxy resolutions will be filed each year. When a shareholder declines to exercise its right to vote its proxy resolutions, the shareholder’s vote with respect to that resolution is automatically counted in support of management. ACIR cannot review and make recommendations on every single proxy resolution that it receives due to the constraints of time and resources. ACIR believes that its existence means that the College wishes to take a position on proxy issues and that the Committee’s inability to provide specific advice with regard to a proxy resolution should not be construed as a vote in favor or against the resolution. Therefore, ACIR recommends that the College vote to abstain on every social issues area proxy resolution that it does not specifically address and make a voting recommendation upon. This Abstention Policy was adopted on February 1, 2005 by ACIR. Executive Summaries 2021 ACIR Executive Summary and Appendices (PDF) 2020 ACIR Executive Summary and Appendices (PDF) 2019 ACIR Executive Summary and Appendices (PDF) 2018 ACIR Executive Summary and Appendices (PDF) 2017 ACIR Executive Summary and Appendices (PDF) Contact Contact ACIR's Executive Administrator, R. Scott Frew, at ACIR@dartmouth.edu Last Updated Share Close Close We Welcome Your Comments Jennifer.B.Hamilton@Dartmouth.edu We will respond to your message as quickly as we can. Find Us Address 7 Lebanon Street, Suite 302 Hanover, New Hampshire 03755 Check out the Campus Map. Organizational Chart Phone: 603-646-0459 HB: 6008 Email: Financial.Administration@Dartmouth.edu View the Finance & Administration organizational chart.Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback Dartmouth College Finance & Administration About Us News & Updates Committees Initiatives Back Finance & Administration Division Leadership Last Updated: Mar 8, 2022