Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content × Close Menu Close Academics Academics Academic Programs Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Medicine Nursing Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Admissions Visiting Seton Hall Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Athletics SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now About About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet SUPPORT SHU University Site Search Academics Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Nursing Theology Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Visit Campus Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Visiting Seton Hall Admissions Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Seton Hall Pirates SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now Advising Advising at Seton Hall Frequently Asked Questions For Students For Academic Advisors Feedback Resources Menu Advising at Seton Hall Frequently Asked Questions For Students For Academic Advisors Feedback Resources Seton Hall University Advising We have developed a model of academic advising at Seton Hall called the Student Success Team. This team is here to support your academic growth and professional development through listening and providing guidance. There are four members of the Student Success Team. The first member is you. At Seton Hall, our goal is to provide a distinctive and rigorous education that encourages students become adaptable, imaginative, resilient, ethical and successful individuals. To do this, you need to be an active member of the team. This means taking ownership and responsibility of your academic journey by responding to your advisor's outreach, preparing for your academic advising appointments, and asking for help. Student Success Advisor: Your Student Success Advisor is a full-time advisor who will help you navigate many of the logistical aspects of your Seton Hall journey, including understanding Compass, first-year course selection, and managing registration requirements including holds. Your Student Success Advisor are in the Center for Academic Success (CAS), Educational Opportunity Program (EOP), Pre-Med/ Pre-Dent Plus Program (PMPDPP), Academic Support for Student-athletes, and Resilience, Integrity, Scholarship, and Excellence (RISE) Programs. Academic Advisor: Your Academic Advisor is a faculty members assigned by your College or Department. Their role is focuses on aligning your coursework with your academic interests and clarifying your life goals to develop educational plans. Faculty advisors can also provide mentorship and course selection. Career Advisor: Your Career Advisor facilitates career development and experiential learning opportunities that employer you to engage in lifelong career management through career planning, advising, and coaching. How do I find my Student Success Team Members? To find the name of your Student Success Team Members, go to Seton Hall Compass: Click on PirateNet Enter your Seton Hall credentials Click on the COMPASS icon On the Student Home Page, click on the "Send a Message" tab to see the name of your student success team for the current term. If you are unable to locate your Team, please fill out this form. Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9000 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top