Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Hiring, Hosting and Admitting » Admitting Students Set Navigation title in component Hiring International Workers Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Admitting International Students More than 4,000 students from over 100 countries study at UC each year, thanks to the departments who admit them. You will work cooperatively with UC International, the Graduate School and UC Admissions to admit international students. In order to receive a student visa, international students need UC International to issue a Certificate of Eligibility known as an I-20 or DS-2019. The I-20 is for students on F-1 visa status, and the DS-2019 is for J-1 students. No I-20 or DS-2019 will be sent until: The student has applied to UC; English proficiency has been demonstrated; The student has been admitted to UC; The student has confirmed (accepted) the offer of admission in Slate; The student has demonstrated adequate sources of financial support. All I-20s are issued with a start date that corresponds with the start date of the term. If a program has required activities that involve students arriving at UC more than 30 days before the start date of the term, contact UC International at the point of admission with with the name and ID number of the student, the date of arrival that is necessary, and the reason the early arrival is necessary. Updating Slate and Catalyst Student inquiries and applications are created electronically in Slate. You are responsible for answering inquiries. Applications are loaded into Catalyst daily. If Slate and Catalyst are properly updated, UC International receives daily reports detailing student admissions, confirmations, denials or scholarship offers. Making Admission Decisions Make admission decisions and financial awards as early as possible for international students. Admit decisions should be made in January if possible. Why? The visa application process for many students can take 90 days or more to complete. Many times, a student’s decision to attend one school over another is determined by which school gets the I-20 form to him/her first. If your admission decision for Fall Semester is not sent to the student until April or May, chances are good that the student will have already received an offer from another school or he/she will not be able to get a visa in time. International students must prove proficiency in English before they are admitted. Once a decision has been made and a student is admitted, the program updates Slate accordingly. The student's status in Catalyst will be determined by the action taken in Slate. Then, the student submits the confirmation form in Slate. Undergraduate English Proficiency Requirements Graduate English Proficiency Requirements Program action and status codes right arrow down arrow Program and action status codes in Catalyst. Program Action Status APPL - Applicant Applicant ADMT - Admit Admitted COND - Conditional Admit Admitted DDEF - Defer Decision Active DEFR - Defer Enrollment Active DEIN - Intention to Matriculate Prematric DENY - Deny Cancelled MATR - Matriculation Active WADM - Administrative Withdrawal Cancelled WAPP - Applicant Withdrawal Cancelled WAIT - Waitlist Waitlisted Offering financial support right arrow down arrow When a student is offered financial support, the admitting department will notify the applicant AND UC International Services. To notify UC International Services, you must enter the award details into the appropriate screen in Catalyst: Launch Catalyst and go to Financial Aid, Awards, Awards Processing and Assign Departmental Awards. Make sure that “UCINN” is showing in the “Academic Institution” field. Use the magnifying glass to select the aid year. The year will always be a year ahead (i.e. 2020 is the selection for the 2019-20 academic year). Add the student’s M number to the “Campus ID” field and hit search. If there are no entries on the award tab, click in the Nbr field in the first column. Enter the number 10 if it is not already entered. This number sets the sequence in which the awards will be processed on this page for the student. If a row of data already exists, click on the plus button at the end of the last row. The Nbr field should automatically populate. If it does not, enter the next number in the sequence in increments of 10 (10, 20, 30, etc.) Go to the actions tab and use the magnifying glass to select an action. You should select “B” for Offer/Accept. Click in the item type field and enter the appropriate item type based on the award. There are only two options that are active now (assistantship and scholarship). These two awards are for notification purposes only to UC International Services. They are separate from what you have to do to actually post the awards to a student account. Use scholarship regardless of the scholarship type being awarded (Global Scholarship for undergraduates; Graduate Incentive Award for graduate students) if only a scholarship is being awarded. If multiple scholarship types are being awarded, combine the total amount of all awards on the one entry. If multiple awards are being made and one of the awards is an assistantship, select the assistantship option and total all awards together for the dollar amount. As an example, if you are posting information for a graduate student receiving a teaching, research or graduate assistant appointment worth $22,000 and a Graduate Incentive Award worth $24,000, you should select “Assistantship” as the description type and $46,000 should be the amount indicated. Click in the Offered field and enter the amount of the award offered. Click in the Accepted field and enter the same amount entered in the Offered field. Sending an admissions letter right arrow down arrow International students have special requirements to fulfill in order to obtain documents needed to apply for student visas. As such, their admission/award letters have to be carefully constructed. Indicate the field of study and the specific degree level (Master’s or Doctoral). Letters should not simply state the “graduate program.” Make clear the exact worth of any awards (assistantships/scholarships) in correspondence with students. Inform them about mandatory orientations they must attend. At the time you send the admit/award letter, you can also send the student communication directing them to iBearcatsGlobal, UC International's database, for information about obtaining their I-20 form, including information about estimated expenses, financial certification forms, etc. Update Slate to Admit right arrow down arrow The admitting department updates Slate to Admit. The student confirms online in Slate, which will update the status in Catalyst from ADMT to DEIN (Intention to Matriculate). UC International is notified of these events when Catalyst is updated. After Admission After admission, International students on F-1 or J-1 status must demonstrate the ability to meet all estimated expenses, including the cost of tuition, fees and living expenses, so UC International can issue the I-20. Federal regulations require that international students on F-1 or J-1 visas be fully financed at all times while in the US (not just the first year or only during the academic year). At the time the department/college sends the admit/award letter, the student is sent links to our iBearcatsGlobal system. Students are provided access to the “Sources of Support” eForm that can be used to scan and upload documentation of their support to our office. You need make clear the exact worth of any assistantships/ scholarships in correspondence with students. Don’t use percentages; state exact dollar amounts. This includes funding of subsequent years of study. You will be notified of any increases in tuition fees, and anyone admitted after that date will be required to prove financial support to meet those new figures. Orientation and Check-In right arrow down arrow Students have to balance a number of required events upon arrival. In addition to any college or departmental programs you want them to attend, students must complete an Immigration Check-in with UC International attend a college orientation/new international student conference complete a health screening get onboarded if they are receiving a Graduate Assistantship Accommodate for these programs as you plan for departmental/college arrival activities. Maintaining an F-1 / J-1 Student Visa right arrow down arrow International students have to follow many US laws and regulations in order to maintain their visa status. These include: Reporting address changes Receiving authorization to drop below a full course load Reporting transfers, program extensions, program/degree changes and departures Following employment regulations (learn more about hiring international student workers) Limiting online courses taken toward a full course load See the full list of rules Visa Restrictions and Government Updates right arrow down arrow The federal government has implemented restrictions affecting different student populations in a variety of ways. See the latest government updates UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top