Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Library Letter from the Librarian Letter from the Librarian It has been my pleasure and thrill to be the Joseph J. and Dora Abbell Librarian for over a decade. In this position, I have come to know intimately one of the greatest Jewish libraries in the world. I have witnessed the flourishing of scholarship on all matters Jewish, from Bible and rabbinics to Jewish history and literature to Holocaust and Israel studies. I have discovered the real lives of medieval Jews in the margins of manuscripts or from the scraps of the Cairo Genizah. I have learned something new every day, knowing always that tomorrow will lead to still another discovery. This great treasury of the Jewish past has now been afforded a new home—the new JTS Library. This is a place where you can access and learn from both our general and our rare collections in the most seamless and integrated fashion possible. In our various study spaces, you may sit alone or join a group, studying simultaneously contemporary scholarship, rare books or manuscripts, digital images of rare materials, and anything else that is available online. In our Dorothy Goldman Exhibition Gallery, you may enjoy the insight and inspiration of exhibitions curated by our expert staff. In our Rare Book Room (to open in January 2022), you may study some of the world’s oldest surviving Jewish books. And in our Joan Brodsky Conservation Lab, you may even witness our expert curators mending and preserving our rare materials for future generations. All of this may be done in a beautiful, dignified setting, one that reflects and reinforces the value of the book (in all its forms) for the People of the Book. We look forward to serving you in our new library, a library that will enhance and honor the experience of our users for many decades to come. David Kraemer Joseph J. and Dora Abbell Librarian SHARE THIS PAGE Request information about JTS Library Events We’ll send you updates about book talks and public programs and exhibits. First Name(Required) Last Name(Required) Email(Required) RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message