Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Communication & Film About Graduate Undergraduate People Alumni Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate Communication Studies Major in Communication Studies Online Film & Video Production Communication Minor Current Courses Advising Internships Lambda Pi Eta Honors Program Accelerated BA/MA Take Action Get Started in the COMM Major Apply to COMM Graduate Programs Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Communication & Film Undergraduate Lambda Pi Eta Lambda Pi Eta Lambda Pi Eta (LPH) is the National Communication Association's official honor society at four-year colleges and universities. As an accredited member of the Association of College Honor Societies (ACHS), Lambda Pi Eta has active chapters at four-year colleges and universities worldwide. LPH represents what Aristotle described in The Rhetoric as three ingredients of persuasion: logos (Lambda), meaning logic; pathos (Pi), relating to emotion; and ethos (Eta), defined as character, credibility, and ethics. Lambda Pi Eta recognizes, fosters, and rewards outstanding scholastic achievement while stimulating interest in the communication discipline. The Epsilon Beta Chapter at the University of Memphis was chartered in December 2013 and inducted its first members in April 2014. Membership Benefits Access to national resources about making the most of your Communication degree. Regular invitations to networking events with peers, alumni, and community members. Opportunities for research with faculty resulting in national and regional presentations. Recognition at annual induction ceremony Community volunteering opportunities Membership Criteria To be eligible for admission, undergraduate students must meet the following criteria: Complete 60 semester credit-hours (90 quarter credit-hours) Have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 for all courses taken Complete the equivalent of 12 semester credit-hours (18 quarter credit-hours) in communication studies Have a minimum GPA of 3.25 for all communication studies courses Currently be enrolled as a student in good standing, as determined by the institution's policies Rank within the highest thirty-five percent of one's class in general scholarship. For the Lambda Pi Eta Application, CLICK HERE. Faculty Advisor: Dr. Antonio de Velasco Composites Members (as of 2021-2022) 1. Sage Harris 2. Sarai Bennett 3. Angela Chatham 4. Mazzy Dior Clements 5. Sophie Cohen 6. Asia Davis 7. Ansley Ecker 8. Kennedy Hall 9. Amelia Hopper 10. Kallie Wilson Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.