Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Academic support Our advisers can help you identify barriers to your academic success and connect you with resources to overcome challenges you may face as a student. Below are resources to help you academically and personally as you pursue your studies here at UW. Where do I find help? There is a myriad of obstacles one might face in college. Click here to find a list of common challenges and resources to deal with those challenges. I'm struggling with my academics, what can I do? If your challenges are related to academic performance, either generally or with a particular subject area, there are resources to help. Please visit the Academic Support Program website for help in both areas. I am unsure of my academic path, who do I talk with? Meet with an adviser to discover ways to make the most of your time earning a degree. Find help in choosing a major, selecting classes and engaging in experiential learning. Advising guides can also help you start to explore your interests, get involved, and set goals for a meaningful first year. Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA