Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > Students > Student Life > Campus Resources Academic Calendar Academic Support & Resources Student Life Campus Resources Student Engagement Career Development Honor Society of Nursing Student Life Events Policies and Procedures Commencement Contact Campus Resources Getting Around Campus Campus Map Columbia Shuttles and Transportation Housing CUIMC Office of Housing Services Off-Campus Housing IT Services CUIMC Information Technology CUIMC IT Help Desk Wireless Networks Health and Support Academic Coaching 50 Haven Athletic Center Student Health on Haven Addiction Information and Management Strategies (AIMS) Well Being and Health Promotion Medical Services Counseling Services Columbia University Ombuds Office Dodge Fitness Center Gender-based Misconduct Go Ask Alice! Disability Services Office of Work/Life Sexual Respect Sexual Violence Response Campus Offices Campus Directory of Offices for Graduate Students Columbia Arts Initiative (Discounted Tickets) CUIMC ID Office Office of University Life Registration and Student Financial Services Public Safety CUIMC Public Safety Walking Safety Escort The Walking Safety Escort Service dispatches two specially trained students equipped with a Public Safety radio to walk with you to your destination. Walking Safety Escort Service is available during the school year. Visit the website for the specified geography where the service is available. Safety Escorts Intercampus Shuttle On weekdays, the Intercampus Shuttle provides service to an expanded geography from 6:30 a.m. to 12:30 a.m. Consult the Transportation website for routes, maps and information on additional shuttles. Intercampus Shuttle Transportation website Public Safety Evening Shuttle The Public Safety Evening Shuttle operates two routes, seven days a week from 6:00 p.m. every evening until 4:00 a.m., excluding University holidays, providing free transportation for CUID holders from approximately 106th Street to 135th Street, from Riverside Drive and east to St. Nicholas, Manhattan, and Columbus Avenues. Consult the Transportation website for the route maps and schedule, including an app that provides real-time, GPS tracking of the shuttles, the Passio Go! app. Public Safety Evening Shuttle Transportation website Passio Go! app Safe Havens Public Safety partners with neighborhood merchants to provide Safe Havens in the Morningside, Manhattanville, and Medical Center communities. Participating businesses display a Red Lion logo in their window. If you enter these businesses, the merchant will assist you in phoning Columbia University's Department of Public Safety or the police and wait for security personnel to respond. Safe Havens Blue Light Emergency Call Boxes The Public Safety Departments of Columbia, Barnard, and Teachers College collectively maintain Blue Light Emergency Call Boxes at locations within and surrounding the greater campus area. The call boxes connect directly to Columbia’s or one of our affiliate’s public safety departments if you are in need of help or feel threatened in any way. Public Safety Contact Information Contact Public Safety for emergency and non-emergency issues: Medical Center Campus: Non-emergency: 212-305-8100 Emergency: 212-305-7979 Morningside Campus: Non-emergency: 212-854-2797 Emergency: 212-854-5555 Manhattanville Campus: Non-emergency: 212-853-3301 Emergency: 212-853-3333 Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top