Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022 Menu Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues Baylor>Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022>Alumni News & Notes>Class Notes>2000s 2000s Brian J. Dixon, BA ’02, MD, was included in Fort Worth Inc.’s compilation of the 400 most influential people in Fort Worth. He was recognized for his significant influence in the mental health industry. Dixon speaks and inspires others to believe in a brighter future for U.S. healthcare. He has authored a book and numerous online articles, and he has been a part of podcasts and newscasts about mental healthcare and health finance. Dixon has launched three successful mental health startups — Mindful, Gide and Simply Psych — and is actively scaling each. Mindful proves direct pay psychiatry practice improves access to care; Gide proves connecting clients to therapists improves the best fit for both; and Simply Psych proves mental health entrepreneurship benefits the community and prevents burnout. Visit DrBrianDixon.com for more information. Billy Kelley, BBA ’02, and Felicia Kelley of Midland, TX, established the Kelley Family Endowed Scholarship Fund, a Hord Challenge Scholarship, which supports Baylor business students. Kyle Cooksey, BBA ’03, was named senior vice president, marketing and communication for Monogram Health in Brentwood, TN, in November 2021. He brings two decades of experience in healthcare operations, innovation and marketing to the rapidly growing value-based provider of in-home nephrology, primary care and benefit management services for individuals with chronic kidney and end-stage renal disease. Cooksey leads marketing and strategic communications in the newly established role, and he manages and nurtures relationships with key stakeholders. Pam Crawford, MSW ’03, of Presbyterian Children’s Homes and Services (PCHAS) was awarded the 2022 Partners in Prevention Outstanding Leader Award by the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services. She currently is regional director for the PCHAS Central Texas programs, which include foster care, single-parent family, transitional living, child and family, adoption and mentoring services. Crawford recently led the development of the PCHAS Growing Together Program, an intervention that focuses on strengthening Navarro County families with young children by bringing therapeutic services directly to their homes. Shelby DeVreeze, BA ’04, BS ’09, joined Baylor’s Louise Herrington School of Nursing as a lecturer in January. Andy Wiltz, BBA ’04, and Angie Wiltz of Stilwell, KS, established the Wiltz Family Endowed Fund for Baylor Built, which supports the Student-Athlete Center for Excellence Baylor Built program. Katie Jo Wheeler, BA ’05, was appointed by Gov. Mike Parson to the State of Missouri Administrative Hearing Commission in November 2021. Wheeler had been deputy director for the Missouri Department of Natural Resources since 2018, prior to which she was the department’s general counsel. R. Heath Cheek, JD ’06, a partner at Dallas-based law firm Bell Nunnally & Martin LLP, was elected to the board of directors of the Cotton Bowl Athletic Association, the nonprofit that organizes and operates the Goodyear Cotton Bowl Classic and oversees its economic and charitable impact. Cheek has served on the Cotton Bowl Council, the bowl game’s young professionals board, since 2015. The Cotton Bowl Athletic Association mission is to present the most innovative of all college football bowl games and to be the leader in creating premier college sports experiences for universities, student-athletes, sponsors and the community. Tony Samp, BA ’06, was named to The Hill’s 2021 Top Lobbyists list, recognizing those who stand out for delivering results for their clients in the halls of Congress and the administration. He is a member of DLA Piper’s Federal Law and Policy group as a senior policy advisor to represent clients before Congress and federal agencies on issues related to artificial intelligence (AI), national security, space and emerging technology with a concentration on congressional strategies and appropriations. Jordan Robinson, BA ’07, was named president and CEO of the Round Rock [TX] Chamber of Commerce. T. Hunter Lewis, BA ’08, was named to D Magazine’s 2022 Best Lawyers Under 40 list. Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues