Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Endodontics Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Endodontics Certificate (Graduate) Apply Endodontics Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Graduate Certificate in Endodontics Prepare for specialized practice, teaching and research with an Endodontics Certificate from Temple University’s Kornberg School of Dentistry—one of the first programs of its kind at a U.S. dental school. The program is fully accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation of the American Dental Association and also fulfills the educational requirements for specialty board certification by the American Board of Endodontics. The full-time, 24-month program admits five exceptional applicants each September, who must remain in continuous residency for the duration of the program. The first year of the program focuses on the didactic component, which consists of multiple seminar courses that involve extensive analysis of primary scientific literature in endodontics, and a series of biomedical science courses taken with graduate students from other clinical specialty programs at the dental school. The second year focuses on patient care activities. Clinical training and experience is provided in all acceptable treatment modalities in clinical endodontics, with clinical proficiency attained in all phases of endodontic therapy. This includes the use of various types of endodontic instrumentation, nonsurgical obturation techniques and endodontic surgery. Students in the program have the opportunity to treat a vast, highly diverse patient pool with a wide range of endodontic treatment needs. Collaborative educational activities are available with other endodontic specialty programs and faculty within greater Philadelphia. Program Goal I To comprehensively prepare competent residents to initially practice endodontics Objective 1. To provide the residents with an in-depth foundation knowledge of relevant biomedical, clinical, and behavioral sciences as they correlate to the theory and practice of endodontics. Objective 2. To provide the residents with a sufficient number of diagnostic, nonsurgical and surgical clinical experiences, which will result in being proficient and competent in the practice of endodontics. Objective 3. To prepare the residents to effectively treat medically compromised patients alone or in concert with other dental and medical professionals. Objective 4. To provide the residents with the opportunity to present and discuss their clinical cases with the endodontic faculty and fellow students, as well as with faculty and students in other dental disciplines. Objective 5. To prepare the residents with knowledge and skills for the certification by the American Board of Endodontics. Program Goal II To educate and train endodontic residents to provide skilled endodontic care, which integrates the best evidence with current technology, clinical expertise and patient values Objective 6. To provide the resident with opportunities to work with and evaluate new instruments and techniques. Objective 7. To prepare the residents to apply current technological developments and best available scientific evidence into their clinical practice. Objective 8. To prepare the residents to be to be ethical, compassionate and professional endodontists. Program Goal III To prepare the residents to have a meaningful research experience that results in a written document in a publishable format Objective 9. To educate and train residents in the basic principles of research methodology, biostatistics and data analysis, in order to prepare them for conducting a research project. Objective 10. To prepare the residents to critically evaluate the dental literature. Objective 11. To have residents document their research work with a written manuscript in a publishable format. Program Goal IV Create the desire and sense of obligation and responsibility to contribute to the perpetuation and growth of the field of endodontics Objective 12. To prepare all residents so that they may obtain practice, teaching and administrative positions associated with the discipline of endodontics. Objective 13. To provide the residents with the training necessary to teach endodontics at all levels. Objective 14. To inspire residents to support, serve and contribute to the perpetuation and growth of the field of endodontics. Endodontics Internship Program The Department of Endodontology offers a 10-month internship program in endodontics to general dentists and endodontists—including candidates with a foreign degree—who are committed to obtaining a depth of knowledge and skills in endodontics. Please contact Maobin Yang at myang@temple.edu for questions regarding admissions requirements, fees and other related questions. A Temple University application and $50 fee will need to be submitted to be considered for admission. Learn more about the Endodontic Internship program at Temple's Kornberg School of Dentistry. Facilities Residents work with cutting-edge technology in modern operatories. Each space is equipped with an operating microscope and a digital X-ray unit. The endodontic clinic is also equipped with a surgical suite fitted with digital equipment that can both record and broadcast live surgery. Additional facilities include one small field cone beam computed tomography, a well-equipped seminar room, study and office space, and access to research laboratories. Learn more about facilities in the Kornberg School of Dentistry. Adding the Oral Health Sciences MS Students in the Endodontics Certificate can apply for the Master of Science in Oral Health Sciences in consultation with their program director. In this 30-credit postgraduate master’s program, students apply modern biological principles and research techniques that aid in diagnosing, treating and preventing oral and craniofacial diseases and anomalies. Through the interdisciplinary curriculum, students study the structure, development and function of oral tissues; their interrelationships; and their connections to other organ systems. Research areas include advanced general dentistry, clinical fields, and periodontal and craniofacial regeneration. Completion of a publishable research project is a mandatory part of the program. The program’s Clinical Specialty Track is specifically tailored for postgraduate students currently enrolled in an advanced training certificate in the Kornberg School of Dentistry. Coursework in students' postgraduate certificate programs count toward the required 30 credits for the Oral Health Sciences MS degree. Learn more about the Oral Health Sciences MS. Teaching Opportunities Residents in the Endodontics Specialty Certificate program acquire valuable teaching experience through supervising predoctoral dental students in the endodontic preclinical lab and in the endodontic predoctoral clinic. Classes & Curriculum The Specialty Certificate in Endodontics includes clinical and didactic instruction over a 24-month period. The didactic component of the program consists of multiple seminar courses that involve extensive reading and analysis of the primary scientific literature in endodontics, and a series of basic biomedical science courses jointly taken with graduate students from other clinical specialty programs. Courses include Advanced Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology, Biostatistics, Current Clinical Concepts of Endodontics, Endodontic Microsurgery, Oral Microbiology and Immunology, Periapical Biology, and Pulp Biology. Learn more about the coursework for the Endodontics Specialty Certificate Program. Related Professional Degrees Dentistry DMD Dentistry (Advanced Standing Program for Internationally Trained Dentists) DMD Related Graduate Certificates Advanced Education in General Dentistry Dental Public Health Orthodontics Periodontics Careers Graduates of the Endodontics Specialty Certificate program are prepared to enter the field of dentistry as endodontists, educators and researchers. Career Development Through the Office of Student Affairs, students pursuing careers in dentistry can get counseling and support during their tenure at Kornberg and after they graduate. The office regularly hosts career events and guest speakers covering a wide range of topics including corporate and private practice careers, debt management, general practice residencies, military service, and specialty education. Once enrolled in the program, you will receive regular notifications about career opportunities. Additionally, the school provides an updated list of job opportunities for dental professionals across the U.S. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Certificate in Dentistry offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about the tuition rates for the 2021–2022 academic year. Program Contact Maobin Yang is the director of the postdoctoral endodontic program at Temple University's Kornberg School of Dentistry. Phone: 215-707-5789 Email: maobin.yang@temple.edu Accreditation The program in endodontics is accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation [and has been granted the accreditation status of “approval without reporting requirements”]. The commission is a specialized accrediting body recognized by the United States Department of Education. The Commission on Dental Accreditation can be contacted at (312) 440-4653 or at 211 E. Chicago Ave., Chicago, IL, 60611. The commission’s web address is ada.org/en/coda. The Commission on Dental Accreditation has accredited the program in endodontics. However, accreditation of the program does not in itself constitute recognition of any dental specialty status. DN-ENDG-DENT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Endodontics Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply