UH Careers - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Human Resources Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Human Resources About HR Careers Careers HR Service Center I-9 and eVerify FML Employee Verification Prior State Service CHRI Request Employees Staff Scholarships New Employees Foreign National Employees Graduate Students Temporary Student Employees Employee Recognition Program HR Departments Benefits Family and Medical Leave Act Information ERS Annual Enrollment Benefits at a Glance Benefits Updates Employee Assistance Program ERS Annual Enrollment - TexFlex Insurance Retirement Worker's Compensation at UH Benefits FAQs Compensation HR Business Partners Reduction in Force Employee Terminations Payroll Services Talent Acquisition Why Work for UH? Staff Employment NHO Request CHRI Request Talent Development Virtual Training LinkedIn Learning Policies SAM HR Policies MAPP HR Policies Common Policies & Resources Administrative Responsibility ACA E-Verify FLSA Regulations Update Fitness Release Time and Wellness Leave Policy Workplace Posters PASS Navigation HR Communication HR Online Resource Guide Quick Links: UH Holiday Schedule Catalyst Volunteer Information Labor Compliance Notices Careers at UH Staff Employment Discover employment in our diverse range of staff positions. Faculty & Librarian Employment Find opportunities in Academia. Positions include, Faculty, Adjuncts, Lecturers and Librarians. Temporary Employment UH offers an onsite agency to assist with temporary and contract positions. Student Employment University Career Services connects UH students and alumni with recruiters seeking opportunities for career, job and internship positions. About UH Advance your career where you can make a difference. The University of Houston encompasses a wide variety of opportunities. Human Resources Our Mission Our History & Traditions Benefits Office of the Provost EOS SUCCESS THROUGH PEOPLE 4252Staff 2586Faculty 5222Student Workers Resources Expand AllCollapse All University of Houston Title IX Coordinator Toni Sanchez Benoit 4367 Cougar Village Dirve, Bldg 526 Houston, TX 77204 eos@uh.edu 713-743-8835 Policies & Legal Statements For campus information as it relates to policy, resources, and legal statements, please click the link below. Legal Statements & Resources HERC The Greater Texas Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (GTX HERC) is a non-profit consortium of colleges and universities in the state of Texas. GTX HERC connects talented professionals with the best higher education employers, listing hundreds of jobs from our member institutions. Our institutions collaborate to recruit and retain the most outstanding and diverse faculty, staff, and administrators. We also seek to assist dual-career couples with their regional job searches. Contacts Staff Careers: For questions related to Staff positions, please contact our Human Resources Department at HRemploy@central.uh.edu. Faculty Careers: For questions related to Faculty positions, please contact the Office of Faculty Affairs via email at facultyaffairs@uh.edu. The University of Houston is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action institution. Minorities, women, veterans and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Additionally, the University prohibits discrimination in employment on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies