Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health About Rutgers Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, stands among America’s highest-ranked, most diverse public research universities. The oldest, largest, and top-ranked public university in the New York/New Jersey metropolitan area, you’ll find us at our main locations in three New Jersey cities, and our footprint can be seen around the region. We’re an academic, health, and research powerhouse and a university of opportunity. #1 Public university in New Jersey U.S. News & World Report 69,000+ Undergraduate and graduate students 530,000 Alumni around the world $907.9 Million Research grants and sponsored programs FY 2021 University Mission As one of the leading comprehensive public research universities in the nation, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, has the threefold mission of providing for the instructional needs of New Jersey’s residents through its undergraduate, graduate, and continuing education programs; conducting the innovative research that contributes to the medical, environmental, social, and cultural well-being of the state, as well as aiding the economy and the state’s businesses and industries; and performing public service in support of the needs of the residents of the state and its local, county, and state governments. Each component of the university’s mission reinforces and supports the other two. Rutgers is dedicated to teaching that meets the highest standards of excellence, to conducting research that breaks new ground, and to providing services, solutions, and clinical care that help individuals and the local, national, and global communities where they live. Discover Rutgers University A Public Powerhouse Discover Your Path Rutgers has locations in New Brunswick, Newark, and Camden and has a major academic and clinical health sciences presence that spans across the state. They’re all different but they’re also all Rutgers—respected, forward-looking, and packed with options. Rutgers University–New Brunswick Founded in 1766, Rutgers–New Brunswick, our flagship location, is New Jersey’s No. 1 public research university, a top 25 public national university, a member of the Association of American Universities, and home of the Big Ten Scarlet Knights. More about Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers University–Newark A leading urban research university that takes every advantage of being located in the heart of New Jersey’s largest city and is just minutes from midtown New York City. With our top-ranked diversity one of our greatest strengths, we focus on economic prosperity and social mobility for new generations. More about Rutgers–Newark Rutgers University–Camden Rutgers traditions and prestige come alive in the heart of the Delaware Valley in an increasingly dynamic urban environment just minutes from Philadelphia. Experience a personalized, close-knit environment at Rutgers–Camden. More about Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences Home to one of the nation’s largest academic health centers, Rutgers' approach to integrating education, research, and clinical care is transforming lives. No other New Jersey institution comes close in offering our range of programs for educating doctors, nurses, dentists, pharmacists, and other health care professionals. More about Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences So Many Options... With hundreds of degree programs, locations across New Jersey, and 69,000-plus students, Rutgers delivers something for everyone. And because our campuses come in all sizes—small, medium, and large—you can choose the one that fits you best. See more Rutgers facts and figures Our Mission: Teaching, Research, and Service As The State University of New Jersey, a leading national public research university and New Jersey’s top academic health care provider, Rutgers fulfills its mission to provide learning, discovery, innovation, service, and health care at the highest levels. Our Impressive Schools and Colleges Collectively, our schools and colleges offer the greatest variety of majors and degree programs in New Jersey, and many rank No. 1 among the public schools and colleges in the state. Research That Matters Unrivaled in New Jersey, our research expenditures top $730 million annually. Our 300 research centers and institutes—New Jersey’s largest research network—generate innovations and new ways of thinking that impact the world. An Academic Health Care Leader Rutgers Health and RWJBarnabas Health form New Jersey’s largest academic health system. What’s special about academic health care? It means we train tomorrow’s leading health care professionals. Public Service with Lasting Impact Valued partners locally and globally, Rutgers thinkers conceptualize and implement services and solutions that help individuals and local, national, and global communities thrive. Renowned Faculty The achievements of our award-winning faculty drive Rutgers’ world-class reputation. They teach, discover, provide health care, innovate, mentor, and share their knowledge. Leaders in their fields, their everyday endeavors yield brilliant outcomes. Highly Accredited Rutgers is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE), a voluntary, nongovernmental, peer-based membership association dedicated to promoting standards of excellence and improvement in higher education. Our programs and schools also have accreditation from recognized professional agencies. A Commitment to Diversity As one of the nation’s most diverse universities, Rutgers draws strength from the rich variety of perspectives and life experiences of our beloved community. #DYKRutgers Do you know Rutgers? Check out these facts about Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. Institutional On his first day as Rutgers president on July 1, Jonathan Holloway personally donated $75,000 to kick off a $10 million fundraising campaign for the Scarlet Promise Grants—a financial aid award program for students in need. Academics Rutgers offers educational programs for learners of all ages—from preschoolers to senior citizens—at more than 300 sites across New Jersey. Students In 1969, the Black Organization of Students took over Rutgers–Newark’s Conklin Hall to protest the lack of minority representation on campus. Today, the university is one of the most diverse in the nation. Research Like cranberry sauce? New Jersey is fourth in the nation for cranberry production, thanks to Rutgers research. Students Rutgers–Camden is New Jersey’s first Purple Heart University, a national recognition of the university’s exceptional support for student veterans. Alumni AIDS was first identified in 1980 by Michael Gottlieb, a Rutgers alumnus. Historic Abraham Lincoln, Theodore Roosevelt, Dwight Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy, Gerald Ford, Jesse Jackson, George H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton, Hillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders, and Barack Obama are among the many U.S. presidents and political leaders who visited Rutgers throughout our 254-year history. Students Rutgers–Newark students volunteered hundreds of hours translating important COVID-19 contact tracing information into Spanish, Portuguese, and Creole as part of Newark’s Lives in Translation Project. Community Mask up! Rutgers has secured 350,000+ fabric face masks to help protect the university community. Research Rutgers initiated the nation’s largest study of health care workers who may have been exposed to COVID-19 to gain critical insights on how to treat and prevent the disease. Research The very first saliva-based, at-home diagnostic test was developed at Rutgers—a game changer in the fight against COVID-19. Historic The Rutgers Scarlet and Black project launched in 2015 to explore the university’s relationship with its history and legacy of racism, inspiring new research, three landmarks named for African Americans linked to Rutgers history, and the publication of two volumes to date. Faculty Excellence U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg was on the faculty of Rutgers Law School in Newark from 1963 to 1972, where her students sparked her interest in gender discrimination and the law. Rutgers and New Jersey Rutgers experts helped teachers and parents from New Jersey public school districts to prepare for this fall’s mix of in-person and remote learning. Yesterday and Today Sol Iustitiae et Occidentem Illustra: The university’s motto, “Sun of righteousness, shine upon the West also,” is today interpreted as a request for the enlightenment of learning to shine equally upon the New World. Learn more about the university's dynamic evolution and visionary leadership. Our Revolutionary Roots Our story begins in 1766, a decade before the American Revolution. Our nation’s history is our history. Through social, economic, and technological revolutions, Rutgers continues to thrive and to seize the opportunities that arise with each new generation. Our Structure Our academic, administrative, and health care units work in collaboration, giving structure and logic to our comprehensive university. Leadership and Governance Working together, Rutgers' executive leadership, governing boards, faculty, and administrators keep Rutgers vibrant and relevant. Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster