Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Scientific Writing PSM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Scientific Writing PSM Apply Request More Info Scientific Writing PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Professional Science Master's in Scientific Writing Develop expertise in STEM-based writing with the Professional Science Master's in Scientific Writing in Temple’s College of Science and Technology and the Klein College of Media and Communication. Designed to meet the growing needs of both the mass media and scientific communities, this degree will prepare you for careers in biotechnology, communications and public relations, journalism, patent law, pharmacy, public health, publishing, and STEM disciplines. This interdisciplinary program’s main objective is to train you to accurately and concisely convey complex scientific arguments and concepts in an accessible manner for different demographics. In order to provide the most beneficial curriculum for your particular career goals, you will have the option to choose between two tracks in either Marketing/Regulatory Writing or Popular Scientific Writing. In this degree, you will have access to faculty and resources from both the College of Science and Technology and the School of Media and Communication. Your courses will cover a variety of science writing skills, from technical writing for clinical reports to journalistic writing for media and news outlets. In addition to classroom-based training, you will gain hands-on experience through an internship. Approved internships have included work with local newspapers, practicing scientists, patent law offices, pharmaceutical companies, publishing companies and more. The internship will form the foundation of your capstone project. This degree can be earned on a part- or full-time basis over three years. Tracks & Concentrations In order to create a curriculum tailored to your career interests, the degree program offers a choice between two educational tracks. The Marketing/Regulatory Writing track provides students with the knowledge and skills necessary to work in environments such as a patent law office, pharmaceutical company or regulatory agency. The Popular Scientific Writing track provides students with the knowledge and skills necessary for careers in fields such as mass market journalism, publishing and other mass media environments. Classes & Curriculum Some of the core courses in this 30-credit program include Communicating Science to a Broader Audience/Non-Scientists, Ethics Regulation and Policy in Biotechnology, Introduction to Grant Writing, Introduction to Scientific and Regulatory Writing, and Reporting and Writing I. Learn more about Scientific Writing PSM courses. +1 Bachelor-Master Programs The College of Science and Technology offers +1 Accelerated Bachelor-Master Programs. Students can earn a BA or BS and, at the end of the fifth year, an MA or MS. Coursework is completed over five years instead of taking the usual six-year course of study. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s +1 Bachelor-Master programs. Related Graduate Degrees Bioinformatics PSM Bioinnovation PSM Biotechnology PSM Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM Globalization and Development Communication MS* Information Science and Technology MS Journalism MJ* Media and Communication PhD* Media Studies and Production MA* Pharmaceutical Science MS** Pharmaceutical Science PhD** Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance MS** Related Graduate Certificates Information Science and Technology Labeling, Advertising, and Promotions* Scientific Writing Strategic Communication and Cross-Culture Leadership* *Klein College of Media and Communication **School of Pharmacy Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Professional Science Masters offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors The Scientific Writing PSM program relies greatly on its board of outside experts drawn from the professional world of media and communications. These board members advise the faculty steering committee on curriculum issues, help teach courses and provide internship opportunities for students. Program Contact For general questions regarding the Scientific Writing PSM, contact cst.psm@temple.edu. Karen Palter is an associate professor in the Biology Department and the director of the Scientific Writing PSM. Phone: 215-204-5588 Email: karen.palter@temple.edu Seema Freer is an associate professor in the Biology Department and the managing director of PSM programs. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student Clubs and Organizations Explore educational and social opportunities outside of the research lab. College of Science and Technology graduate students can join a number of university and local organizations, as well as engaging with the greater Philadelphia scientific community. Find a Temple University student organization. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-SCWR-PSM Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Scientific Writing PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info