Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Auxiliary Services Auxiliary Services Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Dining Menu Main Nav What's Open? Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Sustainability Culinary Innovation Employment FAQs Feedback Events Wellness Meal Plans Overview Flex Dining Plans Dining Calculator Related Links Meal Plan FAQs Events & Specials Locations & Menus Overview What's Open? Lower Live Carney's Café 129 Chocolate Bar CoRo Café & Market Eagle's Nest Hillside Café Legal Grounds Lyons Hall Stuart Dining Hall The Bean Counter The Loft at Addie's Faculty Dining Room Faculty Dining Room Reservations BC Test Kitchen BC After Dark The Market Concessions Tully Cafe Related Links Events & Specials Sustainability Order Food & Gifts Overview GET Mobile Ordering Dining to Go BC Gifts Heights Catering Luxury Boxes & Lower Lawn Close Directory A to Z Listing Search All Departments in Auxiliary Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home About About Meet Our Team Sustainability Culinary Innovation Employment FAQs Feedback Events About Boston College Dining Services provides excellence in service and food. It's our mission to make healthy, delicious, and sustainable food for the BC Community. We continuously strive to improve by innovating and making changes based on suggestions from students and faculty. Driven by the same motto as Boston College—Ever to Excel—we aim to excel in our food, attitude, customer service, and teamwork. BC Dining is proud to be the recipient of numerous industry awards highlighting aspects of our operations, including the delicious food we serve and our latest health and sustainability initiatives. Learn more about BC Dining at our special dining events. We host culinary demonstrations, international showcases, and pop-up events, and give free samples at our weekly FRESH (fairly traded, regional, equitable, sustainable, and healthy) demonstrations. View BC Dining Awards BC Dining is on Social Media! Facebook Twitter Instagram Tweets by BC_Dining Our Staff 200+ Full-Time Employees 33 Nations of Origin 14 Spoken Languages Play Feeding those in need Boston College Dining Services has helped to feed people in need in Greater Boston during the coronavirus pandemic. “We love being on the cutting edge of food service, keeping up with the latest trends and having a true passion for food and service.” Scott Powers, Assistant Director of Catering “BC is a great place to work. I love it here. It comes with safety, great benefits, and teamwork.” Marlene Ramos, Second Cook “The young customer base at a university desires innovation. Our students inspire us to continually think outside the box.” Beth Emery, Director of Dining Services Quick Links What's Open? Today's Menu Order Food & Gifts Catering Add Funds to Dining Plan Back To Top Back To Top Contact BC Dining 129 Lake Street 3rd Floor Boston MA 02135 617-552-2263 bcdining@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram About Wellness Meal Plans Locations & Menus Order Food & Gifts Events & Specials Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College