Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Brand Logo Usage and Limitations General Limitations and Restrictions These elements may not be used to designate a business, social, political, religious or any other organization, or to imply or otherwise suggest the University’s endorsement, support, favor or association with any organization, product or service without permission of the University and the University’s Trademarks and Licensing Office. As Clemson is an academic institution, beer, wine, alcohol, tobacco, firearms, religious, call to action, gambling or political advertisements will require rigorous review, and all advertising and/or use of federally protected Clemson marks (athletic or campuswide) will require the prior written consent of Clemson University Director of Licensing after receiving ELT-level approval. All imprinted products containing University wordmarks must be produced by a Collegiate Licensing Company (CLC), Clemson-licensed vendor (T-shirts, giveaways, etc.). For more information on licensing and a list of Clemson CLC-licensed vendors, visit clemson.edu/university-relations/ licensed-vendors.html. Any acronym must have the descriptive name designed as a lockup of the acronym in the logo design. In the case of T-shirt design use, a separation of the lockup of the acronym and the descriptive text would be allowed, but both should appear on the shirt. Logo clear space The Clemson logo must be protected and elevated, always having a clear space around it where no other elements appear (such as typography, other logos, graphics or photos that intrude upon the logo). Be mindful of maintaining this clear space, and do not place the logo too close to the paper’s edge, any folded edge, any cuts or embossing. The clear space of the Clemson Wordmark is “X,” as defined by the width of the counter (the inner space) of the “O” or the “Paw” in Clemson. The clear space of the Academic and Nonacademic Marks is 1/2 “X,” as defined by the width of the “Seal” or the “Paw” in the mark. Unacceptable logo applications Do not add any effects such as bevels, drop shadows or outlines or change manipulate original colors. Do not use the logo over a tint unless it provides excellent contrast and legibility. Do not partially reverse a logo out of a tint or screen, and do not use any tints other than those in the palette. If in doubt, check with Design Director Jesse Godfrey at jesseg@clemson.edu. Do not stretch, bend or alter any proportions. A partially reversed logo over a photo can work, but do not use a busy photo or a photo that is too light to provide sufficient contrast. Home Positioning Guides Color Palette Logos Logo Usage and Limitations Typography Photography Voice and Style Making It Real Sub Brand Guidelines Alumni Brand Standards Athletics Brand Standards Clemson Forward Brand Standards Development Brand Standards CU-ICAR Brand Standards Student Affairs Brand Standards Additional Resources Social Media Guidelines Web Style Guide Collegiate Licensing Program Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram