Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Cornell Cooperative Extension: Helping NY Residents, Businesses and Communities Thrive Posted on January 24, 2020 By Cornell Cooperative Extension Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X [MUSIC PLAYING] SPEAKER: Cornell University is one of the world's leading research institutions. It's also the land grant university for New York state. That means Cornell is dedicated to creating knowledge that improves the lives of New Yorkers. A vital way in which Cornell serves New York is through Cornell Cooperative Extension, a network of independent associations located across the state. Cornell Cooperative Extension translates the latest evidence-based findings generated at Cornell into practical knowledge, delivered through research-based programs and services that reach some 2 million New Yorkers each year. These include youth and family programs that fight childhood malnutrition, build parenting skills, and address challenges facing communities such as opioid addiction, farm programs to spur economic development by developing pest-resistant crops, creating new markets, and promoting local foods through farm-to-school and urban agriculture programs, support services for military veterans and their families, small business development programs, environmental programs to improve water quality and protect shorelines, community partnerships to revitalize cities across the state, and for 4H, a youth development program that prepares today's young people to be tomorrow's leaders. Cornell Cooperative Extension addresses local needs with its presence in every one of New York's counties including New York City's five boroughs. Extension associations in each county are staffed by experts who live and work in their community and engage directly with residents face to face. While Cornell provides general oversight of the state's county extension offices, each of them operates as a subordinate government agency in its respective county independent of Cornell. So by design, extension associations have the freedom and flexibility to focus on issues that matter most to local residents. Discovery and inquiry are at the heart of Cornell Cooperative Extension. Working with local partners and Cornell researchers, Extension experts identify vital community issues and refine their programs to ensure maximum relevance and effectiveness. This way, knowledge and expertise flow in both directions-- from Cornell to communities and vice versa. CCE also engages with a robust network of government agencies, community groups, and local volunteers. In other words, we're all in this together. For over 100 years, Cornell Cooperative Extension has been a trusted resource for generations of New Yorkers. Its work is always evolving, but the mission remains constant-- helping residents, businesses, and communities thrive. [MUSIC PLAYING] Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. Rooted in every county of the state, Cornell Cooperative Extension (CCE) translates Cornell University’s world-class research into practical, real-world knowledge that helps New York state residents, businesses and communities thrive. While Cornell provides general oversight of the state’s county extension offices, each of them operates as a subordinate government agency in its respective county, independent of Cornell. This independence from Cornell allows each county in New York to focus on the issues that matter most to its residents, tailoring Cornell knowledge and expertise to solve pressing local concerns and advance vital community interests. For over 100 years, CCE has been a trusted resource for generations of New Yorkers, offering research-based programs and services that reach nearly 2 million residents per year. More About public engagement new york state impact What to watch next 3:44 MyPlaylist New York farmers take a chance on chickpeas, with help from Cornell 1:55 MyPlaylist Cornell to help train New York state’s pioneering public health corps 1:53 MyPlaylist AgriTech Center of Excellence helps food, ag startups thrive 2:11 MyPlaylist Dogs trained to detect oak wilt, invasive species 5:22 MyPlaylist Making the turn: from inmate to scholar 0:52 MyPlaylist ‘… Any person … any study’ behind bars 2:09 MyPlaylist NY craft beverage industries tap into Cornell expertise 1:34 MyPlaylist Grow-NY finalists put down roots in NYS food and ag economy 2:39 MyPlaylist Micro-satellites offer a fresh view of NYS agriculture 3:05 MyPlaylist CCE's Blocks in Bloom program grows strong neighborhoods 3:20 MyPlaylist Ripple effect: Cornell helps restore Long Island's shellfish 00:01:07 MyPlaylist Enhancing Long Island's maritime culture and economy 0:44 MyPlaylist Local Roads Program: Red Hook, NY highway superintendent Theresa Burke 0:57 MyPlaylist Local Roads Program: Hartland, NY highway superintendent Keith Hurtgam 00:01:54 MyPlaylist Local Roads Program: Sherburne, NY highway superintendent Chase Winton 2:18 MyPlaylist Steve Hindy '71, MAT '75, put Brooklyn beer on the map 1:34 MyPlaylist Industrial hemp research at Cornell University 2:04 MyPlaylist Cooperative Extension helping grow Urban Agriculture in NYC 2:15 MyPlaylist Study reveals NYS apple industry’s true economic impact 0:51 MyPlaylist Cornell’s partnerships in Buffalo 1:41 MyPlaylist Cornell’s support for sustainable housing in Buffalo 1:50 MyPlaylist Cornell’s extensive Buffalo roots 2:53 MyPlaylist Cornell and the ILR School help Buffalo grow 00:01:56 MyPlaylist Cornell helps keep NYC water clean, safe to drink 1:39 MyPlaylist Farm Ops: U.S. Marine Corps and Air Force veteran Walter Palmer 0:57 MyPlaylist Farm Ops: U.S. Army veteran Logan Yarbrough 1:53 MyPlaylist Farm Ops: U.S. Air Force veteran Nathan Bush 2:11 MyPlaylist Cornell research benefits the hard cider industry 1:20 MyPlaylist The Cornell Food Venture Center 0:42 MyPlaylist CCE summer intern Tyler Brewer '19 0:56 MyPlaylist CCE summer internships impact NYS 0:29 MyPlaylist Cornell helps Stony Brook Wholehearted Foods grow 0:57 MyPlaylist Protecting bees and boosting NY’s economy 00:01:19 MyPlaylist Urban agriculture enriches inner city Buffalo neighborhood 1:07 MyPlaylist Ruth Richardson’s lab working to keep swimmers in the water at New York State parks 6:23 MyPlaylist Prosecuting a case of animal cruelty 4:29 MyPlaylist Cornell Tech program fuels K-12 computer science curriculum 3:59 MyPlaylist The Machinist 0:32 MyPlaylist Hops growing in New York state More from New York State Impact 3:21 MyPlaylist Cornell hosts Camp PALS NY for adults with Down syndrome 14:24 MyPlaylist The Lost Boys of Auburn surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×