Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Student Life Date July 28, 2021 2021-07-28 Media Contact Maggie Spear [email protected] 401-863-7287 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Summer Experiences Every May, Brown students leave the classrooms of College Hill behind to pursue a wealth of transformative summer opportunities — from internships and fellowships to research projects and entrepreneurial startups. Summer Experiences Sarah Zylberfuden: Making connections in canine cognition With dogs important contributors in everything from rescue operations to assisting people with disabilities, the rising senior is spending her summer in a Brown laboratory researching the reasoning abilities of man’s best friend. Sarah Zylberfuden investigates dogs’ learning abilities in various contexts, including their understanding of human social information. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — What is my dog even looking at? Why are they barking? Can they tell when I’m upset? And how does my dog always seem to know when I’m about to go on vacation? At times to their dismay, most dog owners can only wonder about the answers to these questions. But Sarah Zylberfuden is spending her summer investigating them — and given the importance of dogs in everything from search-and-rescue operations to assisting individuals with disabilities, finding answers could be significant. As a rising Brown University senior concentrating in cognitive neuroscience and literary arts, Zylberfuden is researching the learning and reasoning abilities of man’s best friend in the laboratory of Assistant Professor of Cognitive, Linguistic and Psychological Sciences Daphna Buchsbaum. “We’re trying to look at it from a comparative perspective — how dogs are different from other animals considering how domesticated they are, and how their intelligence compares to ours,” Zylberfuden said. “Then, of course, there’s the goal of seeing how dogs can be helpful to us, like with therapy or service dogs.” Faculty and student researchers affiliated with Buchsbaum’s laboratory at Brown investigate dogs’ learning in a variety of contexts, including their physical problem-solving abilities and understanding of social information. Scientists record dogs’ actions as they interact with people, toys and puzzles, and the choices they make to learn more about their understanding of the world. Zylberfuden is collaborating with lab members on two current research projects. From left: Zylberfuden, Assistant Professor of Cognitive, Linguistic and Psychological Sciences Daphna Buchsbaum, and graduate student Madeline Pelgrim take Bruno, Buchsbaum's golden retriever, on a walk. Bruno is wearing a pair of goggles that contain an eye-tracking device that records both what he sees and what he chooses to focus on. All photos by Nick Dentamaro/Brown University The first study seeks to determine how dogs visually navigate a human-built world. Using an eye-tracking device installed in goggles worn by the dogs, researchers are able see both what the dogs see and what they choose to focus on. Volunteer study participants train their dogs at home to wear the goggles under supervision of the team; once the dog is comfortable wearing the goggles, they join their owner and a researcher on a walk. It’s a first step to understanding the science behind how dogs look at and move through the world around them. The second study, conducted remotely over Zoom, investigates what factors impact dogs’ preference for food items. In a typical session, Zylberfuden helps guide participants in presenting their dogs with foods that are very familiar to them and predict what they’ll be excited about, and vice versa. In addition to studying choice between foods, other exercises, in which dogs have to paw at certain levers to receive treats, explore problem-solving. For tens of thousands of years, dogs like Bruno have played a crucial role in humans' lives, from simple companionship to search-and-rescue operations and assisting individuals with disabilities. Given the unique closeness of humans and dogs, studies like these play a crucial role in identifying the links between the intelligence of man and man’s best friend — which helps scientists determine what kinds of factors lead to different cognitive abilities. “It’s important to understand different things around us, rather than just people,” Zylberfuden said. “Also, there are connections between dogs and humans — seeing which cues dogs can understand, such as pointing, or how they solve puzzles can be bridged to help us better our understanding of how infants learn the same things.” Buchsbaum’s laboratory is a recent addition at the University. It’s a sister lab to the Canine Cognition and Computational Cognitive Development labs at the University of Toronto, where she served as an assistant professor until 2020, when she joined the faculty at Brown. Knowing she wanted to apply for a Summer/Semester Projects for Research, Internships and Teaching (SPRINT) Award, Zylberfuden said she perused many opportunities before finding Buchsbaum’s research project. When she read its title, “How do dogs think and learn about the social and physical world around them?” Zylberfuden, a bona fide “dog person” — she has seven at home — said she knew she had to join. Aside from the occasional training or behavior video, “I had never known much about the science behind studying what dogs do,” she said. “I thought it would be really fascinating to actually use research methods to study how dogs learn about things.” With prior experience working in a children’s cognition lab, Zylberfuden thought the project would offer a stellar opportunity to augment her cognitive neuroscience pursuits by studying a different species. "There are a lot more questions we can ask about dogs and humans that would be important to learn about to better our understanding of these creatures that are just walking around our homes, on the street or in shelters. It connects to how we can better understand ourselves." Sarah Zylberfuden Class of 2022 “I’m really interested in studying the brain, mental health and mental capabilities in general, and using animal research is such an important way to discover new things about humans,” she said. That drive to examine human cognition in a variety of contexts is bolstered by Zylberfuden’s other field of study: literary arts. In reading and writing, she said she most appreciates the vastly different worlds writers create and how they use their own unique experiences to create them. By adding foundational knowledge in cognitive neuroscience to the literary arts, Zylberfuden says she can not only explore those worlds, but understand how they come to exist. She hopes to learn more about how the two connect in “Neuroaesthetics and Reading,” a course she’s set to take next year that focuses on what happens in the brain when someone is reading and writing. Zylberfuden said she enjoys explaining to people beyond Brown who view her areas of concentration as strange bedfellows why the combination is so valuable. Ultimately, she said, it’s about making connections, investigating and eventually understanding how those connections can benefit two seemingly disparate things — like dogs and humans. “There are a lot more questions we can ask about dogs and humans that would be important to learn about to better our understanding of these creatures that are just walking around our homes, on the street or in shelters,” she said. “It connects to how we can better understand ourselves.” Tags Summer Experiences Undergraduate Research Related news: Student Life Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics April 20, 2022 For 10 years, a student-run organization has taken to the air, delighting audiences with circus-inspired performances on trapeze, aerial silk, lyra and more. Read Article Open details for Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics Student Life Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community November 8, 2021 Brehan Brady — a self-described working-class kid from Pawtucket who transferred to Brown from the Community College of Rhode Island — joins other student veterans in forging a new path after their military service. Read Article Open details for Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community Student Life For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities November 4, 2021 With classroom experiences across the Open Curriculum and support from the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship, Perez built on her own experiences to launch EmpowerU, a startup that connects low-income students to higher education resources. Read Article Open details for For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities Summer Experiences Every May, Brown students leave the classrooms of College Hill behind to pursue a wealth of transformative summer opportunities — from internships and fellowships to research projects and entrepreneurial startups. Summer Experiences Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Sarah Zylberfuden: Making connections in canine cognition Open details for Sarah Zylberfuden: Making connections in canine cognition Bookmark this Page