Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE SURGERY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 SURG 498 Undergraduate Thesis (*, max. 35) Offered to those students who have engaged in undergraduate research in general surgery. (Full- or part-time.) View course details in MyPlan: SURG 498 SURG 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 35) Provides an opportunity to participate in ongoing research projects or carry out an independent research project under supervision of Department of Surgery faculty. Practical experience in experimental design and execution is provided under direct supervision of selected faculty members. (Full- or part-time.) View course details in MyPlan: SURG 499 SURG 505 P-Preceptorship in Surgery (1, max. 12) Opportunity for first- and second-year medical students to gain personal experience with clinical faculty members in the community. Students observe general aspects of private practice, including clinical problems seen; practice limitation; doctor-doctor, doctor-patient, and doctor-nurse relationships in the office and hospital. Prerequisite: permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 505 SURG 598 P-Surgery Independent Study and Remediation (*, max. 8) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Surgery clerkship offered during the patient care phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. Prerequisite: department permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 598 SURG 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: SURG 600 SURG 601 General Surgery Advanced Clerkship - Swedish Medical Center (8) Advanced clerkship at Swedish Medical Center/First Hill offering training in a 700-bed tertiary-care hospital. Emphasizes collegial relationships between attending surgeons, residents, and fourth year medical students considering a career in general surgery or one of its subspecialties. Prerequisite: required surgery clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 601 SURG 602 P-Clinical Clerkship - Coeur D'Alene, ID (*, max. 24) Diagnosis and management of problems amenable to surgical therapy. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision making, and the basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 602 SURG 603 P-Clinical Clerkship - Spokane VAMC (*, max. 24) Diagnosis and management of problems amenable to surgical therapy. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision making, and the basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating room. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 603 SURG 604 P-Clinical Clerkship - Bozeman, MT (*, max. 24) Diagnosis and management of problems amenable to surgical therapy. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision making, and the basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 604 SURG 605 P-Clinical Clerkship - Swedish Medical Center (1-24, max. 25) Diagnosis and management of problems amenable to surgical therapy. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision making, and the basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 605 SURG 606 P-Clinical Clerkship - Anchorage, AK (1-24, max. 25) Diagnosis and management of surgical problems. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision-making, and basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. Fulfills graduation requirement for surgery. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 606 SURG 607 Colorectal Surgery - Boise, ID (8) Focus on benign and malignant diseases: colorectal carcinoma, colitis, inflammatory bowel disease, anorectal diseases such as anal fissure, anorectal abscess and fistula, hemorrhoids and pilonidal disease. Focus primarily on minimally invasive techniques with exposure to the OR, clinic, endoscopy unit, and da Vinci robotic surgical procedures. Practice of modern surgical techniques. Prerequisite: General Surgery clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 607 SURG 608 General Surgery Advanced Clerkship - Virginia Mason (8) Advanced clerkship designed to give fourth year medical students direct exposure to defined categories of general surgery. Students participate in the pre-op, intra-op, and post-operative care of surgical patients. Students also participate in outpatient clinc and perform initial consults and post-operative visits. Students work closely with resident physicians to provide primary care for post-operative inpatients. Prerequisite: required Surgery clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 608 SURG 609 Surgery Clerkship - Alaska Native Medical Center (12) Students participate in and contribute to the team approach to managing emergency general surgery conditions and oversight of management of complex trauma victims. Activities include patient care assessment in both inpatient and outpatient settings, observation and participation in the operating room, attendance of weekly conferences, and didactic experience with faculty. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 609 SURG 610 Plastic Surgery Sub-Internship (8) Introduces fundamental techniques and enhances knowledge of plastic surgery, wounds, trauma, burns, cancers, and pediatric and adult cosmetic and reconstructive surgery. Participants act in sub-intern capacity in all surgery-related activities and work towards essential skills necessary for surgical residency. Students rotate through Veterans Affairs Puget Sound (primary site), UW Medical Center Montlake, and UW Medical Center Northwest. Prerequisite: completion of required general surgery and medicine clerkships. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 610 SURG 630 P-WRITE Surgery Clinical Clerkship (*, max. 24) Basic clinical clerkship for students enrolled in the WRITEpProgram. Prerequisite: completion of basic curriculum; third- and fourth-year students; acceptance in the WRITE program. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 630 SURG 631 P-LIC Surgery Clinical Clerkship (12) Basic clinical clerkship for students enrolled in LIC program. Prerequisite: Acceptance into LIC program. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 631 SURG 634 Surgery Clerkship - Twin Falls, ID (1-24, max. 25) Required surgery clerkship - Patient Care Phase; St. Luke's Magic Valley, Twin Falls ID Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 634 SURG 642 P-Rural Surgery Clerkship - Pullman, WA (8) Designed to supplement basics learned in surgery required clerkship. Excellent opportunity to participate in general surgery and various other subspecialties in a smaller city. Highly suggested for student entering primary care. Prerequisite: required surgery clerkship; medicine clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 642 SURG 647 P-Rural Surgery Clerkship - Powell (8) Designed to supplement basics learned in SURG 665. Opportunity to participate in general surgery and various other subspecialties in a smaller city. Recommended for students entering primary care. Prerequisite: surgery required clerkship and permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 647 SURG 648 P-Rural Surgery Clerkship - Libby (8) Designed to supplement basics learned in SURG 665. Opportunity to participate in general surgery and various other subspecialties in a smaller city. Recommended for students entering primary care. Prerequisite: surgery required clerkship and permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 648 SURG 649 P-Rural Surgery Clerkship - Lewistown (8) Designed to supplement basics learned in SURG 665. Opportunity to participate in general surgery and various other subspecialties in a smaller city. Recommended for students entering primary care. Prerequisite: surgery required clerkship and permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 649 SURG 651 P-Community Surgery Clerkship - Rock Springs, WY (8) Designed to supplement basics learned in Surgery 665. Excellent opportunity to participate in general surgery and various other subspecialties in a smaller city. Encouraged for students entering primary care. Prerequisite: completed required Surgery and Medicine clerkships. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 651 SURG 653 P-Pediatric Surgery - Spokane (8) Student functions as a subintern directly assisting on the services and is an integral part of the team. Prerequisite: surgery required clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 653 SURG 654 P-Cardiothoracic Surgery - Spokane (4-8) The student functions as a subintern and directly assists on the service and is an integral part of the team. Prerequisite: surgery required clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 654 SURG 655 Surgery Clerkship - Gillette, WY (12) Provides a method of focused evaluation for patients with surgical problems. Includes workup and preparation of patients for anesthesia and surgical intervention. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 655 SURG 656 P-Trauma/Acute Care Surgery - Boise (8) The student functions as a subintern and directly assists on the service and is an integral part of the team at St. Alphonous Trauma Services. (Four weeks). View course details in MyPlan: SURG 656 SURG 658 P-Ambulatory Surgery Clerkship - Mary Bridge (4) Rotation focuses on increasing the student's ability as a primary care physician to recognize and form an initial plan of management for common surgical problems seen in the outpatient setting. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 658 SURG 659 P-Ambulatory Surgery Clerkship - Madigan (8) Rotation focuses on increasing the student's ability as a primary care physician to recognize and form an initial plan of management for common surgical problems seen in the outpatient setting. Prerequisite: completion of all required patient care phase clerkships. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 659 SURG 661 P-Surgical Intensive Care Unit Sub-Internship - VA (8) Designed to augment experience gained in SURG 665. Excellent opportunity to participate in the management of critically ill patients under the close supervision of the staff/house staff. Recommended for students entering surgery or primary care. Prerequisite: surgery required clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 661 SURG 664 P-Subinternship in General Surgery - VAMC (*, max. 16) Diagnosis, preoperative care, and postoperative care; management of surgical emergencies, the ICU patient, and outpatient follow-up of discharged patients. Students function at the intern level under close supervision of the staff and house staff. Prerequisite: surgery required clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 664 SURG 665 P-Clinical Clerkship - UWMC (*, max. 24) Diagnosis and management of problems amenable to surgical therapy. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision making, and the basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 665 SURG 666 P-Clinical Clerkship - Boise (1-24, max. 25) Diagnosis and management of surgical problems. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision making, and basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. Fulfills graduation requirement for surgery. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 666 SURG 667 P-Clinical Clerkship - Spokane (1-24, max. 25) Diagnosis and management of surgical problems. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision-making, and basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. Fulfills graduation requirement for surgery. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 667 SURG 668 P-Clinical Clerkship - Casper (1-24, max. 25) Diagnosis and management of problems amenable to surgical therapy. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision making, and the basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. Fulfills graduation requirement for surgery. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 668 SURG 669 P-Clinical Clerkship - Billings (1-24, max. 25) Diagnosis and management of problems amenable to surgical therapy. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision making, and the basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. Fulfills graduation requirement for surgery. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 669 SURG 670 P-Clinical Clerkship - Missoula (1-24, max. 25) Diagnosis and management of problems amenable to surgical therapy. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision making, and the basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. Fulfills graduation requirement for surgery. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 670 SURG 671 P-Clinical Clerkship - Madigan (1-24, max. 25) Diagnosis and management of problems amenable to surgical therapy. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision-making, and the basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. Fulfills graduation requirement for surgery. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 671 SURG 672 P-Clinical Clerkship - HMC (*, max. 12) Diagnosis and management of problems amenable to surgical therapy. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision making, and the basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. Fulfills graduation requirement for surgery. Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 672 SURG 673 P-Clinical Clerkship - VA (*, max. 12) Diagnosis and management of problems amenable to surgical therapy. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision making, and the basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. Fulfills graduation requirement for surgery. Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 673 SURG 674 P-Clinical Clerkship - Virginia Mason (*, max. 12) Diagnosis and management of problems amenable to surgical therapy. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision making, and the basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. Fulfills graduation requirement for surgery. Prerequisite: HUBIO 563. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 674 SURG 675 P-Clinical Clerkship - Caldwell, ID (*, max. 12) Diagnosis and management of problems amenable to surgical therapy. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision making, and the basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 675 SURG 676 P-Pediatric Cardiothoracic Surgery (8) Students will learn about the technical and physiological aspects of cardiopulmonary treatments. Prerequisite: Surgery required clerkship Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 676 SURG 678 P-Clinical Clerkship - Kalispell, MT (1-24, max. 25) Diagnosis and management of problems amenable to surgical therapy. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision making, and the basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 678 SURG 679 P-Clinical Clerkship - Wenatchee, WA (1-24, max. 25) Diagnosis and management of problems amenable to surgical therapy. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision making, and the basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 679 SURG 680 P-Clinical Clerkship - Northwest Hospital (1-12, max. 12) Diagnosis and management of problems amenable to surgical therapy. Physiological basis of surgical care, differential diagnosis and decision making, and the basic principles of surgical management. Care of inpatients and outpatients, including participation in the operating rooms. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 680 SURG 682 P-Clinical Burn Care (*, max. 12) Offered on the burn unit of Harborview Medical Center. Exposure to the care of patients with thermal injury, including management of severe metabolic and septic problems and opportunity to participate in surgical procedures. Exposure to plastic and reconstructive surgery. Prerequisite: surgery required clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 682 SURG 683 P-Pediatric Surgery Externship (8/12) Surgical conditions peculiar to the particular age group with a preponderance of congenital and neoplastic conditions that are amenable to surgical treatment. Prerequisite: surgery required clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 683 SURG 684 P-Pediatric Surgery Clerkship- Boise (8) Student functions as a subintern directly assisting on the services and is an integral part of the team. Held in Boise, ID. Prerequisite: PEDS and SURG clerkships. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 684 SURG 685 P-Cardiothoracic Surgery Externship (*, max. 12) Serve as a subintern on the Cardiothoracic surgery service at the UWMC. Opportunity to participate in the full spectrum of perioperative care for both cardiac and thoracic surgery patients including end stage lung disease, heart failure and transplantation patients, with an emphasis on cardiopulmonary physiology and perioperative management. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 685 SURG 686 Plastic Surgery Sub-Internship (8) Introduces fundamental techniques and enhances knowledge of plastic surgery, wounds, trauma, burns, cancers, and pediatric and adult cosmetic and reconstructive surgery. Participants will act in sub-intern capacity in all surgery-related activities and will work towards essential skills necessary for surgical residency. Students will rotate through Harborview (primary site), Seattle Children's Hospital, and UW Medical Center Montlake. Prerequisite: surgery and medicine required clerkships. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 686 SURG 687 P-Transplantation Surgery Clerkship (8) Clerkship is in the University regional multi-organ transplantation center. Student participates fully in the care of all transplant patients, on twice daily multidisciplinary rounds, in pre-operative conference, and in the operating room and on the donor harvest team. Weekly didactic teaching sessions. Prerequisite: surgery and medicine required clerkships. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 687 SURG 688 P-Subinternship in General Surgery (*, max. 12) Offered on the general surgery wards of the University-affiliated hospitals. Diagnosis, preoperative care, and postoperative care; management of surgical emergencies, the ICU patient, and outpatient follow-up of discharged patients. Students function at the intern level under close supervision of the staff and house staff. Prerequisite: surgery required clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 688 SURG 690 P-Alaska Native Medical Center Surgery Sub-Internship (8/12) Designed to supplement basics learned in SURG 665. Excellent opportunity to participate in general, thoracic, vascular, and plastic surgery in a specialized population of patients. Recommended for students entering primary care. Prerequisite: SURG 665 and permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 690 SURG 691 P-Surgical Intensive Care Unit Sub-Internship - HMC (8) Designed to augment experience gained in SURG 665. Excellent opportunity to participate in the management of critically ill patients under the close supervision of the staff/house staff. Recommended for students entering surgery or primary care. Prerequisite: surgery required clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 691 SURG 692 P-Ambulatory Surgery Clerkship - Seattle Children's (8) Rotation focuses on increasing the student's ability as a primary care physician to recognize and form an initial plan of management for common surgical problems seen in the outpatient setting. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 692 SURG 693 P-Rural Surgery Clerkship - Buffalo (8) Designed to supplement basics learned in SURG 665. Opportunity to participate in general surgery and various other subspecialties in a smaller city. Recommended for students entering primary care. Prerequisite: surgery required clerkship and permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 693 SURG 695 Vascular Surgery (8/12) The student spends four weeks on the vascular surgery at Harborview Medical Center. The student functions as a subintern and directly helps the residents manage all patients on the service and is an integral part of the OR team. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 695 SURG 697 P-Surgery Special Electives (*, max. 24) Special clerkship, externship, or research opportunities may be available at institutions other than the University of Washington. Prospective students obtain from the dean's office a special assignment form at least one month before preregistration. Prerequisite: surgery required clerkship and permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 697 SURG 699 P-WWAMI Surgery Special Electives (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships may be available at institutions, other than the University of Washington, located within the WWAMI region. Prerequisite: permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: SURG 699 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022