Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Information Technology Main Navigation About IT Services Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff CEDA Software Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff Events & Projects IT Strategic Plan Welcome from the Vice President Amir Dabirian The Division of Information Technology plays a significant role at Cal State Fullerton. We understand the challenges that face our faculty, staff, and students and we continuously strive to produce a higher quality of services designed to meet the expectations of the campus community. The Division of Information Technology has partnered with other divisions to fully integrate technology into regular campus operations and to ensure that the services, equipment, and software applications we provide are custom to needs of each area. The Division of Information Technology strives to be a strategic, innovative and best‐in‐class IT organization that provides a leading‐edge technology environment for students, faculty and staff to advance the University’s mission, vision and goals. We empower our students to become digital citizens and to utilize immersive technology in curricular and co-curricular instruction. VP Biography IT Organization IT Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion IT Employee Recognition Program IT Senior Leadership Team IT Senior Leadership Org Chart IT Directory Reports & Publications IT Marketing Annual Report Annual Report Archives Titan Tech Talk IT Guide to CSUF This site is maintained by Division of Information Technology. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact helpdesk@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.