By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate International Support Services More from this Section Syracuse Program in Partnership with Wells College: Information for International Students First-Year Checklist Transfer Checklist FAQ Stories Enrollment Options Requirements Support Services for International Students As an international student, you can take advantage of the support services offered by Syracuse University to help with your transition to life in Syracuse. Center for International Services The Center for International Services will help to ensure your success at Syracuse. The Center offers supportive services and programming to international students and their families, including a comprehensive orientation program to assist with your adjustment to life at Syracuse University. It also provides guidance to help you maintain compliance with immigration regulations and requirements. Before you arrive in the United States, the Center will provide you with documents to help you obtain your student visa. The English Language Institute The English Language Institute (ELI) provides English courses at five levels from beginner to advanced proficiency. Through home visits, trips, films, and lectures, you will be exposed to situations that promote English acquisition. Students who successfully complete Level 4 at the ELI will have the TOEFL or IELTS admission requirement waived by Syracuse University. The program is open to students who are at least 17 years old and can prove they have finished secondary school, and who have been admitted or conditionally admitted to Syracuse or another American university, or have a good reason for studying English. International Ambassador Program These current international students will help you adjust to life on campus. They will take you on campus tours and share their experiences and advice with you. Local Partnerships for Global Students Syracuse University offers this unique opportunity in collaboration with Onondaga Community College (OCC) to ensure your success at Syracuse and beyond. OCC is an accredited institution in the City of Syracuse granting 2-year associate’s degrees, with whom the University works very closely each year to enroll students to Syracuse. The Local Partnership for Global Students enables international students selected by Syracuse to pursue a Syracuse University degree while improving English language and academic skills during the first half of the collegiate career, which will take place at OCC. The length of collegiate study and type of degree will be the same as if starting at Syracuse University, however the path to Syracuse University will be like that of a transfer student. Benefits The selected applicants will have the opportunity to strengthen English language and study skills at OCC while still pursuing a degree. Participants will pay OCC tuition for the two years enrolled there, significantly reducing the total cost of the Syracuse University degree. Program requirements are provided to international applicants to Syracuse at the time of invitation to participate. If you are selected for the Local Partnerships for Global Students program, you will follow the Community College Partnership criteria Syracuse University has established with Onondaga Community College . Related Pages Services and Support for Current Students Syracuse University staff and faculty strive to create safe, inclusive, and engaging environments that are responsive to the community's needs. Accessibility and Diversity At Syracuse University you’ll find an environment of inclusion and diversity, providing opportunity for anyone and everyone who seeks it. Phi Beta Delta Phi Beta Delta Alpha Sigma Chapter Syracuse University is the first honor society dedicated to recognizing scholarly achievement in international education and intercultural engagement in the community. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy