Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Application Information Application Components & Process Application Fee Waivers Graduate School Skip to Navigation Application Fee Waivers The following information is for applicants to all doctoral programs and the following select master's programs: Biomedical Engineering, Biotechnology, Literary Arts, Theatre: Brown/Trinity Repertory Acting and Directing, Theatre and Performance Studies. To be eligible for a fee waiver, applicants to Brown University’s graduate programs must demonstrate financial need. DEADLINES Your completed application must be submitted 14 days in advance of the program’s application deadline in order to be considered for a fee waiver. Please choose the “Request a fee waiver” option as your method of payment on the payment information page. If your fee waiver request is approved, you will receive an email stating that your application has been submitted. If denied, you will receive an email notification directing you to resubmit your application with an alternate form of payment. If you are applying to multiple programs, note well that each program requires a separate application fee. The Graduate School will consider a fee waiver for only one program per applicant. APPLICATION FEE WAIVER INSTRUCTIONS To request a fee waiver, complete the Application Fee Waiver Request on the online application form. In addition, you must submit documentation and a short explanation that substantiates your financial hardship. Acceptable forms of documentation are FAFSA, a letter from a college/university financial aid office, receipt of GRE or TOEFL fee waiver, unemployment verification, or other forms that provide significant documentation of financial hardship. Please do not send copies of your tax returns. SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION All supporting documentation for fee waiver requests should be emailed to [email protected] at least 14 days prior to the program’s application deadline. Failure to do so will result in an incomplete application and require you to resubmit your application with the appropriate payment. Please include the following information with your supporting documentation: ‘Fee Waiver Materials’ in the subject line of the email Your full legal name and name of the program to which you are applying. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information Application Components & Process GRE Information International Applicants Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Applicants Facing Extenuating Circumstances For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants