Skip to site alert. Skip to content Pathology Faculty Directory News Events Make a Gift Contact Us Search About Us Diagnostic Specialties Client and Patient Support Research Education Harris H. Wang, PhD Profile Navigation Overview Credentials & Experience Research Overview Harris Wang is as an Assistant Professor at Columbia University in the Department of Systems Biology. Dr. Wang received B.S. degrees in mathematics and physics from MIT and a Ph.D. in Biophysics from Harvard, where he pioneered the Multiplex Automated Genome Engineering (MAGE) platform for rapid and combinatorial genome editing. Dr. Wang’s current research focuses on applying synthetic biology methods to manipulate microbial communities and mammalian systems. Using advanced approaches in genome engineering, gene synthesis, and next-generation sequencing, he studies how genomes are shaped and maintained by the environment, and how they evolve over time. His research group is developing enabling technologies in systems and synthetic biology to engineer microbial systems and mammalian cells in ways that could address key challenges in health, energy and the environment. Dr. Wang is the recipient of numerous awards including the Presidential Early Career Awards for Scientists and Engineers, NIH Director’s Early Independence Award, NSF CAREER Award, Sloan Research Award, ONR Young Investigator Award, and was named in Forbes’ 30 Under 30 in Science in 2012. Email: hw2429@cumc.columbia.edu Academic Appointments Associate Professor of Systems Biology and Pathology and Cell Biology Languages Chinese Credentials & Experience Education & Training PhD, Biophysics, Harvard University BS, 2005 Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology BS, 2005 Mathematics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Honors & Awards Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE) ONR Director of Research Early Career Award ONR Young Investigator Award Sloan Research Fellowship NSF CAREER Award Forbes 30 under 30 in Science in 2012 NIH Director’s Early Independence Award Collegiate Inventors Competition Grand Prize Winner, National Inventors Hall of Fame National Science Foundation Graduate Fellowship National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate Fellowship National Merit Scholar Research Research Interests Principles that drive formation, maintenance, genome evolution within/across microbial populations Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Client and Patient Support Diagnostic Specialties Education Research Faculty Directory News Events Make a Gift Contact Us Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top