By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life For Parents & Families More from this Section For Faculty & Staff For Veterans & Military For Students Recreation Groups & Activities Meals & Dining Services & Support Events Calendar Campus Highlights Accessibility & Diversity Housing For Parents and Families Useful links and resources for parents. Welcome parents and supportive family members! Syracuse is known for its passionate and caring community, and here you'll find resources for staying involved during your student's time with us. Whether you want to know about everyday life, milestones, or events we hold just for you, these resources will keep you in the loop: Parents Office Department of Public Safety Syracuse University News Orange Athletics Campus Life Parents and family members are welcomed and encouraged to participate in campus life. There are many opportunities for you to learn about Syracuse University and to celebrate with your student: Syracuse Welcome: New Student Orientation Family Weekend Orange Central Commencement Housing Calendar Cost and Affordability Taking in the facts and figures of a college budget won't be a daunting task with financial professionals. Get the information you need to prepare, and work with us to see it all come together: Cost of Attendance Cost and aid Financial Aid staff Office of Financial Literacy Student Employment resources Outcomes We'll prepare your student for success the moment they join us. You've provided them with a support system at home, and now they will learn to grow in another. That's why 91% of Class of 2015 placement survey respondents report they are employed, interning, or attending graduate school. Outcomes for graduates Related Pages Parents Office The Parents Office is here to promote awareness of and involvement in your student's educational experience. Student Services and Support Students and parents are encouraged to take advantage of the variety of programs and services we offer from career counseling to safety practices. Plan Your Visit Get information to help make the most of your time here. Family Giving Join the thousands of parents who give, and you'll make an immediate impact on your child's time at Syracuse. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy