Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Conference tackles the ‘generational and Earth-defining’ challenge of safeguarding Amazonia Miqueias Mugge and Rodrigo Simon for the Princeton Institute for International and Regional Studies May 19, 2022, 6:15 p.m. Home to hundreds of Indigenous groups, Amazonia has more species of animals and plants than any other ecosystem. Because of this, threats to the rainforest imperil chances to fulfill Paris Agreement commitments to tackle climate change and its negative impacts. “Safeguarding the Amazon is a generational and Earth-defining problem,” said João Biehl, Princeton’s Susan Dod Brown Professor of Anthropology and director of the Brazil LAB, who co-organized the conference “Amazonian Leapfrogging: Tackling the Climate Crisis and Social Inequality with Nature-Based Solutions" at Princeton University. The conference was hosted by the Brazil LAB, together with the High Meadows Environmental Institute (HMEI), Princeton Institute for International and Regional Studies (PIIRS), the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA), the Brazilian research initiative Amazônia 2030, the University Center for Human Values, and the Program in Latin American Studies at Princeton. Ribeirinho, Solimões River, Brazilian Amazon, 2011. A nature-based, interdisciplinary approach that takes into account economic, environmental, political and historical considerations is the focus of this year’s Amazonian Leapfrogging conference. Photo by Araquém Alcantara “We should remember that we cannot save nature unless we save the people protecting it,” said Brazilian Indigenous leader Txai Suruí in her opening remarks. Amaney Jamal, dean of SPIA and the Edwards S. Sanford Professor of Politics and International Affairs, recalled Suruí’s powerful message at last fall’s UN Climate Summit in Glasgow: “Indigenous peoples are on the frontline of the climate emergency and must be at the center of decisions.” At the conference, more than 80 Brazilian and international guests across academia, business, government and activist sectors interacted with Princeton faculty and students, probing nature-based solutions that might guarantee the conservation of this vital planetary nexus and “leapfrog” the region into much-needed socioeconomic development. Stephen Pacala, a member of President Joe Biden’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology and Princeton’s Frederick D. Petrie Professor in the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, urged participants to consider the specific actions that Brazil and the international community can each do to halt further degradation of this vital biodiversity hotspot and climate regulator. “The story is amazingly more precise than just a few years ago,” he said. Indigenous leader Juma Xipaya said: “Indigenous and forest peoples have been talking about this for centuries. And not just speaking, but also defending the rainforest and the equilibrium of the planet with our own bodies.” Conference participants affirmed their solidarity with the struggles of Indigenous peoples and their call for protection, rights, and wellbeing. “Everyone must understand the importance of the forests and of Indigenous peoples in attaining climate justice and for the future of our planet,” said Suruí. “We need genuine, concrete action in order to keep on fighting for all of our lives.” Read the full story on the PIIRS site. Related Stories ‘Amazonian Leapfrogging’ conference is bringing top thinkers to campus to focus on climate and social inequality Read more A world without the Amazon? Safeguarding the Earth’s largest rainforest is focus of Princeton conference Read more Students engage with 'Amazonia, The Last Frontier' online Read more Princeton’s new Brazil LAB leads relief efforts for Brazil’s National Museum lost to fire Read more Political challenges, not just scientific ones, shape response to epidemics Read more Princeton-Fung Global Forum identifies approaches for dealing with 'modern plagues' Read more People in developing countries eat less wild game as they migrate from rural to urban areas Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice