Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Academics Welcome to Our Community of Learning Princeton is one of the top universities in the world. Our undergraduate and graduate programs emphasize learning, creativity, innovation and collaboration. Studying at Princeton We are a community of learning that is enriched by the wide range of experiences and perspectives of our students, faculty and staff. Undergraduate students benefit from the extraordinary resources of a world-class research institution dedicated to undergraduate teaching, while our graduate students engage in original and independent scholarship and research. Learn More Car Lab as a Rite of Passage . “This is why people want to become engineers,” says electrical engineering professor Andrew Houck. “You take an idea, and you turn it into reality.” Visit the car lab Learning to Teach . "It took me some experimenting and reflecting to get here," says senior English major Raven DeRamus. "And I appreciate that about the Teacher Prep program. They really make you think about why you’re doing what you’re doing at the very beginning." Meet the Teacher Prep program Areas of Study View All Humanities . Learn More Natural Sciences . Learn More Social Sciences . Learn More Engineering and Applied Science . Learn More Previous Slide◀︎ Next Slide▶︎ Library Learn More The Princeton University Library system houses more than 10 million books, along with extensive digital holdings, in buildings across campus. Undergraduates, graduate students and faculty have access to a remarkable array of resources for their course work, independent research and scholarship. Spotlights Firestone Library Mudd Manuscript Library Lewis Library (science) Academic Calendar Learn more about important dates and deadlines during the academic year. View all at the Registrar Academic Calendar and Deadlines Exam Schedules Course Tools A compendium of academic resources and websites. View all guides & resources Canvas Undergraduate Announcement Graduate Academics McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning Advising and Tutoring We provide students with a range of academic resources and a support network of faculty and staff to support their success. LEARN MORE Previous Slide◀︎ Next Slide▶︎ Learning Abroad Learn More Princeton is a global institution, and there are vast opportunities to learn and pursue research beyond the University's campus. Geographically extensive programs offer Princeton students and scholars many ways to connect. Spotlights Office of International Programs Bridge Year PIIRS Global Seminars Career Development We empower you to discover your interests and pursue your passions while studying at Princeton. Career Services can be a partner in your explorations, including through one-on-one guidance to help you plan your goals and achieve career success. Learn More Continuing Education The University sponsors programs that allow alumni, community members and students from other universities to experience Princeton's unique educational offerings. Learn More Community Auditing Innovative Learning Learning at Princeton goes beyond the traditional classroom experience, with technology enabling innovative and creative educational opportunities across campus and around the world. Innovative Learning McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice