Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Degrees Doctoral Programs Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Doctor of Public Health Doctor of Philosophy Doctor of Public Health Doctor of Philosophy Doctoral Programs The Mailman School's public health doctoral degree programs provide tremendous access to renowned researchers and thought leaders. Through their course of study, doctoral students obtain the tools they need to create knowledge in the field and advance the practice of public health. The School offers two doctoral degrees, the Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and the Doctor of Public Health (DrPH). Both train candidates to create new knowledge and research, apply them to important public health issues, and identify and implement potential solutions. They differ only in emphasis: The DrPH programs place greater emphasis on the application of science to public health leadership, practice, and program development. The PhD programs place greater emphasis on creating new knowledge, with PhD recipients pursuing research and/or teaching as their career goal. The DrPH can be obtained in: Biostatistics Environmental Health Sciences Epidemiology Population and Family Health Sociomedical Sciences The PhD can be obtained in: Biostatistics Environmental Health Sciences Epidemiology Sociomedical Sciences Degree Requirements Graduates of the DrPH degree complete a minimum of 30 credit hours beyond the course work for the MPH degree or equivalent professional degree in public health. The PhD degree is conferred by the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, as are all PhD degrees at Columbia University. Graduates of a Mailman PhD degree program complete a minimum of 60 credit hours that constitute the combined requirements for the MA and PhD degree. Students entering the PhD degree program with MA degrees from other universities may receive up to 30 credits of advanced standing. Learn More To learn more about degree competencies, curriculum plans, and student handbooks, visit our Academics page. Academic directors in each department are available to provide additional guidance on which program best fits particular academic and career goals. Applicants are also encouraged to review faculty profiles—including their research interests—to identify common interests with their discipline of choice. For more information, visit these pages: Deadlines Open Houses Application Process More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Gun Violence Prevention Experts Respond to Mass Shootings May 27 2022 Our Experts Help Explain the Monkeypox OutbreakMay 26 2022 A Q&A With Prof. Merlin ChowkwanyunMay 24 2022 Sign up for Transmission Interested in changing the world? Apply Today Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers