Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Visual Art Show/Hide About People Academics Awards + Scholarships Course Descriptions Courses Listings Concentration Requirements Exhibitions + Guidelines Honors Independent Study Study Abroad News + Events Resources FAQs Honors Honors in Visual Art The Department of Visual Art offers each Honors student a studio in the List Art Building. Establishing the discipline of studio practice early in the first semester lays a solid foundation on which to build success. Enrollment in the Honors program counts as two courses taken for graduation credit, but will not count toward the courses needed for the Visual Art concentration. In the first semester the Honors Seminar meets weekly for readings, discussions, and group critiques. During the second semester, Honors students continue with their Honors projects as individual study projects under the supervision of their Honors Faculty Advisor while meeting periodically as a group for critiques and presentations. Honors students are expected to meet with their Honors advisor on a regular basis in both the first and second semester. Honors students are encouraged to attend the Visiting Artist Lecture Series events each semester. Additionally, there will be two trips to New York, one each semester to visit museums and galleries which are considered to be beneficial learning experiences for Honors students. At the end of the first semester, the Department of Visual Art faculty review the progress of each candidate and determine whether the candidate will be allowed to continue in the Honors Program. Honors students present their work to students and faculty at the end of the year. A digital portfolio and written statement of work are required and will become part of the Department of Visual Art archive. Admission to the Honors program does not automatically translate into Honors distinction at graduation but is determined by the final evaluations of the Department of Visual Art faculty at the end of the second semester. Honors Application Overview and Requirements 2023.pdf Academics Awards + Scholarships Course Descriptions Courses Listings Concentration Requirements Exhibitions + Guidelines Honors Independent Study Study Abroad Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Visual Art Visual Art Brown University Box 1861 List Art Building 64 College St Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2423 Fax: 401-863-1680 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Custom Footer Links A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat