Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Academics SMU Home Academics Academics Dedman College is a springboard for student exploration into the humanities, natural and mathematical sciences, and social sciences. Find your passion among a diverse variety of educational programs and build a unique learning experience for a future that meets endless opportunities. Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Humanities Natural and Mathematical Sciences Social Sciences Learn more about our academic divisions Explore Dedman College minors and pre-professional programs. Dedman College offers a diverse collection of undergraduate minors and pre-professional programs that prepare students with the valuable skills to be successful in a competitive marketplace. Choose a minor within the college or branch out to a new field of professional study. From pre-health and human rights to pre-law and international studies, we have academic combinations for every future. Learn more about minors Pre-professional study at SMU Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube