Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Air Force ROTC AFROTC right arrow down arrow Our Detachment right arrow down arrow Detachment 665 Cadre right arrow down arrow Commander Recruiting Officer Operations Flight Commander NCOIC of Personnel NCOIC of Administration Program Director Prospective Cadets right arrow down arrow How to Join Crosstown Schools Program Requirements Returning to school? FAQ Request More Information Contact Us Home » Campus Life » Air Force ROTC » Prospective Cadets » Crosstown Schools Set Navigation title in component How to Join Crosstown Schools Program Requirements Returning to school? FAQ Request More Information Crosstown Schools We have the unique opportunity to be located near many higher-learning institutions in the Cincinnati area that we call "cross-town" schools. College students attending a cross-town school in our network can join the Air Force ROTC program hosted on the UC Uptown campus at no additional instruction cost. Crosstown School Network Art Academy of Cincinnati Athenaeum of Ohio Chatfield College Christ College of Nursing & Health Sciences Cincinnati State Technical and Community College (Cincy State) Gateway Community and Technical College God’s Bible School and College Good Samaritan College of Nursing and Health Science Mount St. Joseph University (MSJ) Northern Kentucky University (NKU) Thomas More College (TMC) Wilmington College (WC) Xavier University (XU) We've had cadets from many of these schools so there is always help to get you through the cross-town student registration process. In most cases, we can pair you up with a sponsor cadet in our program from your school so you have all the support you need. Transportation If you have a car, you can buy a parking permit here! If you don’t have a car, contact us and we will find a wingman to help you out, because we won’t leave anyone behind! Air Force ROTC Detachment 665 2585 Dennis St Cincinnati OH, 45221 513-556-2237 afrotc@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Air Force ROTC Detachment 665 2585 Dennis St Cincinnati OH, 45221 513-556-2237 afrotc@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top