COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Painting (Studio Art), Major MajorPainting (Studio Art) All Programs College of Fine Arts Studio Art Pursuing a Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) in studio art at Wichita State prepares students to be exceptional artists as well as versatile, creative professionals. Our degrees offer a unique intersection of Applied Drawing, Ceramics, Photo, Print, Sculpture and Electronic Media, and Community and Social Practice. Large studio spaces, ADCI galleries and new technology are at your fingertips. Learn how painting is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the School of Art, Design and Creative Industries, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Painting student displays culture through her art As a studio arts major with a painting concentration, you have the opportunity to express culture in new ways. As a master's student, Alicia Daniel's work involved the concept of expatriation and explored the idea of leaving one's homeland and emigrating, adapting and thriving in another in order to form a new identity. Her work, which focuses on the vibrant colors inspired by the art often seen in Barbados, was exhibited in the "Things Could Get Messy: Artists Supporting K-12 Art Programs" exhibition at the Reuben Saunders Art Gallery in Wichita. Curriculum The painting concentration offers intensive studio work. You'll develop a wide range of technical and conceptual skills, including traditional, mixed and digital media. This approach requires a foundation in the fundamental aspects of painting media, as well as an understanding of the historical and social context in which painting is encountered. View the curriculum Careers A degree in art from Wichita State will nurture your creativity and give you the knowledge, skills and connections for success in the workforce—and in graduate studies. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Applied Drawing (Studio Art) Print Media (Studio Art) Art, Design and Creative Industries (Minor) Art Education Art Art History 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©