Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Main College College News About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give About Us Academics Research & Outreach Resources News & Events Give Search Student Life Dean's Ambassador Application Student Resources Student Awards and Accomplishments Parents Resources About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give More Sites Main College College News Student Life Dean's Ambassador Application Student Resources Student Awards and Accomplishments Parents Resources About Us Academics Research & Outreach Resources News & Events Giving Home Resources | College of Arts and Sciences Student Life AAA Prospective and Admitted Students Student Life Dean's Ambassador Application Student Resources Student Awards and Accomplishments Parents Resources I am a neuroscientist. Neuroscience, Religious Studies Natalia Beadle "I attended a serivce tripto Guatemala... This tripinstilled in me a passion forcommunity service, which I'vecarried with me throughout myundergraduate career, andwill carry into the future." Learn more. I am a political scientist. Political Science, Women's & Gender Studies Morgan Owens "There is such a breadth ofeducational opportunities at UMthat there's no reason to at leasttry out a new subject orfield of study." Learn more. I am a neuroscientist. Neuroscience Roberto Efraín Díaz "I'm proud ofestablishing the first Nu Rho Psi - national neuroscience honor societychapter in the stateof Florida." Learn more. I am an actor. Musical Theatre Thomas Jansen "Carve your own path. If you do the same thing as everybody else you will end up in the same place as everybody else." Learn more. I am a computer scientist. Computer Science, Psychology Isabella Antonini "In my opinion, understanding people and computers is essential for the future because both will always be present." Learn more. I am a philosopher. Philosophy, Psychology Joshua Myers "There are so many opportunitieson campus to do exciting things,and you don't always know thatyou like something or are passionate about something until you try it." Learn more. I am a psychologist, sociologist, & Dean's Ambassador. Psychology, Sociology Liz Bocanegra "Enjoy every moment! Four years goes by in a blink with all the fun you have here at UM." Learn more. I am a historian, political scientist, & Dean's Ambassador. History, Political Science Austin Skiera "Throw yourself into creatinga positive college experience for yourself. You'll be thankful you did." Learn more. I am passionate about social change & a Dean's Ambassador. International Studies Rebecca Garcia "I am most proudof having led or participatedin various social justiceinitiatives." Learn more. I am a chemist. Chemistry Sam Peurifoy "My research experience has been the single most important aspect of my undergraduate career. I have learned more than I would have ever thought possible." Learn more. I am a political scientist. Political Science Monica Bustinza "If you knock on the rightdoors opportunity is there.“I needed to create change here, at home, before I continued to flourish" Learn more. I am a neuroscientist. Neuroscience Elana Schettini "I love understandinghow the brain works --from development to our senses,there is always more to learn." Learn more. I am a writer. Modern Languages & Literatures Dainerys Machado Vento “Everyone told me that it could not be done. I said politics has put us in a strait jacket. I am going to choose freedom.” Learn more. I am an artist. Art & Art History Lorraine Franco "I'm doing what I've waitedall my life to do: creating,exploring my artistic passion,and surrounded withwonderful mentors." Learn more. I am a writer. Creative Writing Patrice Grell Yursik, also known as Afrobella "As a student at UM, I was shown that I could write anything from a novel to film script. I learned the basics and was encouraged by faculty to follow my passions." Learn more. Mateus Lima da Vinci Program, Economics, Chemistry “I felt like I should build my own name in the field. I had always been fascinated by economics and the economic choices people make so I applied as an economics student, but deep down I knew I was interested in medicine too.” Learn more. I am a computer scientist. Computer Science Negin Arhami “The Computer Science Department is like a family.Everyone is so nice andsupportive, and the department allows you to be very flexible with your schedule." Learn more. I am a mathematician. Mathematics Kara McCormack "I've done a lot of communityservice, and I love the opportunityto give back whenever I can." Learn more. I am a psychologist. Psychology Marissa Alert "I've had the opportunity tonetwork and develop interventions that can be sustainable in the community." Learn more. I am a psychologist. Psychology Maggie Dickey “Not only was I able to pursue other interests with my biology and chemistry minor, the psychology major itself is so diverse." Learn more. I am a political scientist. Political Science O'Shane Elliott "Life is salt.Always salt your food.Don't be afraid to dothings on the spot." Learn more. I am a biologist. Biology/Pre-med Sophia Raia "It was a wonderful feeling to be able to form real relationships and connections with the families we were building for.” Learn more. I am a biologist. Biology Joanna Weremijewicz Joanna has received a Doctoral Dissertation Improvement Grant from the National Science Foundation to support her research on fungi that help plants absorb nutrients from soil. Learn more. I am an artist. Art & Art History Izia Lindsay "I am excited to havethe opportunity to mentorand work with fellow art students on the nextart insallation." Learn more. I am an anthropologist. Anthropology, Criminology Andreana Cunningham The National Museum of Natural History will be the “scene of the crime” for Andreana Cunningham’s summer internship. Learn more. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 College of Arts and Sciences 1252 Memorial Drive Ashe Building - Rm # 227 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305- 284-4117 305- 284-4117 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard WebMail Leave Feedback UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Library Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Contact Us Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices