Skip navigation About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors menu Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Global Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support Office of International Programs Navigate the Process Welcome! We are pleased that you are considering study abroad. Here’s the general idea of how to plan for the process: Step 1 - Explore. Browse the OIP website and become familiar with the options – review the "key questions" worksheet to guide you through the many options and variables. Attend OIP Study Abroad 101 information sessions. Check the OIP events calendar for upcoming sessions, or watch a Study Abroad 101 recording. Step 2 - Define your experience. Determine when you want to study abroad - you can choose from year, semester and summer programs. Prioritize locations that are important to you, and make sure you meet the pre-requisites (i.e. language requirements) for study in that country. Start narrowing down programs and meet with a study abroad advisor. Step 3 - Make it happen. Familiarize yourself with relevant dates and deadlines for your program(s) of interest. Meet with your concentration advisor to ensure that you are able to fulfill academic requirements. Talk to your family about study abroad; keep parents and other supporters informed. Apply! (Note: Students may apply to only one program per term.) Step 4 - Go Abroad. Accept a spot on a program. Follow the post-acceptance process provided by the OIP. Pack your bags! Anytime Feel free to visit the OIP resource library (open during office hours), contact us with questions, and meet Peer Advisors, current Brown students who have already studied abroad. Related Files Key Questions Worksheet Engineering Study Abroad 101 Information Session December 2, 2021 Home Study Abroad COVID-19 Updates Programs Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) Independent Study and Undergraduate Research Application Deadlines Meet with an Advisor Study Abroad Peer Advisors Faculty Advisors for Study Abroad FinancIal Information Getting Started Study Abroad FAQs Application Deadlines Language Requirements Pre-Approval Requirement Academic Standing Passport and Visa Information Health & Safety Resources for Abroad Returning to Brown For Families Faculty & Staff OIP Events & Activities About the OIP Print this Page Share this Page Office of International Programs Brown University Box 1973 Page-Robinson Hall 420 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3555 Fax 401-863-3311 [email protected] For Global Travelers Controller's Office Travel Policies and Procedures International Health Insurance Register with Brown's International SOS Service Tips While Abroad - The Take It With You Guide Brown Travel Portal IT Security Travel Tips International Research Administration Travel Clinic For Global Visitors Office of International Student & Scholar Services (OISSS) International Health Insurance Brown Travel Portal International Student Resources Visiting Undergraduate Students Visiting Research Fellows and Non-Degree Graduate Students Study Abroad Office of International Programs - Undergraduate Study Abroad Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards Graduate School Partnerships and Exchanges Grant Opportunities Our grant database offers a wide range of funding opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and researcher in different fields of work. Search Grants Social Media Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Top Destinations Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Map & Directions Social Media Dashboard Contact Us Giving to Brown