Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Instruction and Curriculum Leadership About Programs Students Faculty News Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action ICL Degrees Apply Now ICL Advising Contact Us Home ICL Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Admissions Instruction and Curriculum Admissions Welcome to the Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership! We offer one undergraduate degree--a Bachelor of Science in Education (BSED) and four graduate degrees: the Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) the Master of Science (MS), and the Doctor of Education (EdD). We also offer certificates in Applied Behavior Analysis, Instructional Design and Technology, and Urban Education. And we offer Endorsements for Reading Specialist and School Library Specialist. Admissions Undergraduate Students COE Undergraduates are advised by the Office of Teacher Education and Clinical Practice. Explore OTECP's website, visit them in Ball Hall 202, or call 901.678.2273 for more information. Apply to the Teacher Education Program! • Human Development and Learning, (B.S.Ed.) • Integrative Studies, Secondary Math Concentration (B.S.Ed.) • Integrative Studies, Youth Services Concentration (B.S.Ed.) • Teaching All Learners (leading to Elementary K-6 and Special Education Modified K-12 licensure), (B.S.Ed.) Graduate Students Students seeking initial teacher licensure through a MAT degree must also be admitted to the Teacher Education Program (TEP). Students seeking graduate MS, EdD degrees or Certificates Apply Online Now Prospective Students Prospective: Apply Now > Prospective International Students (F-1 Student Visa) International Prospective: Apply Now > A. Application Deadlines February 1 for summer semesters April 1 for fall semesters October 1 for the spring semester With the exception of applications for the Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) doctoral program. IDT uses a cohort model with all doctoral students beginning in the summer. As such, IDT doctoral applications are reviewed only once a year and the submission deadline is January 31st. B. Program Admission Prospective MS and EdD students must complete and submit the online Graduate Admissions application form. Important: Ensure you have entered the following information correctly, as failure to do so may result in a delay of the application process: Major: Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Concentration: Please select one concentration below: Early Childhood Instruction and Curriculum Instructional Design & Technology Literacy School Library Information Specialist Secondary Education Special Education Applied Behavior Analysis (Special Education) Prospective students must upload: MS Degree Programs: Two letters of recommendation from people familiar with the applicant's academic background and aptitude for graduate work, specifying in detail the applicant's capabilities for doctoral study and for future performance and scholarship. At least one letter from a college/university professor is preferred. Official transcripts of undergraduate EdD Degree Programs Official Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score (verbal, quantitative, and writing) Official transcripts of undergraduate and graduate study Two letters of recommendation from people familiar with the applicant's academic background and aptitude for graduate work, specifying in detail the applicant's capabilities for doctoral study and for future performance and scholarship. At least one letter from a college/university professor is preferred. A written statement of 500 to 1000 words (maximum) indicating the intended area of focus in the doctoral program and the applicant's present interests and career goals. Certificate Students Prospective Certificate students must complete and submit the Graduate Certificate online application form. When completing the “Planned Course of Study” on the application, select “Desired Certificate” from the drop-down menu. Applicants whose native language is other than English must score at least 550 (or 210 computer-based) on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). See the Office of Admission website for the application form and deadlines. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.