Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Program in Liberal Medical Education Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Information for Prospective Students Education Degree Options PLME Courses Pre-Clerkship Electives Research Summer Travel/Study Abroad Fellowships People Student Stories PLME Senate Programs Diversity Admission/Aid Requirements Application Process Eligibility Deadlines Financial Aid FAQ Student Resources Forms and Publications AMCAS International Programs Enrichment Activities Search Program in Liberal Medical Education Information for Prospective Students PLME is the only combined baccalaureate-MD program in the Ivy League. Learn more about this unique program and find out if it's the right fit for you. Breadcrumb Home About Sub Navigation In This Section Information for Prospective Students Admission & Aid Learn more about the application process and what options are available should you decide to apply to our program. Admission & Aid Information for Prospective Students PLME is the only combined baccalaureate-MD program in the Ivy League. Learn more about this unique program and find out if it's the right fit for you. The Program As undergraduates, PLME students may choose to work toward an AB or ScB degree in the sciences, or toward an AB in the humanities, social sciences, or behavioral sciences. PLME students may choose any one of the nearly 100 departmental and interdepartmental concentration programs offered at the university. Undergraduate Years The undergraduate experience is designed to best prepare students for the last four years of the program, which constitute the Medical School years and culminate in the MD degree. During the undergraduate portion of the program, the summer period is free but may be used for independent study, elective coursework, or laboratory research. During the Medical School years, students may pursue, in parallel with the MD degree, an advanced degree in their area of interest (e.g., MPH, MD/PhD) or other professional development such as a Scholarly Concentration (See Advanced Scholarship). Advanced Scholarship The expected duration of the PLME is eight years. However, undergraduate PLME students have the option to defer their entry to the Medical School for one year while they pursue opportunities in other fields such as education, research, public service, government, health care, and business. More Information Application Process A student wishing to apply to the PLME uses the Brown application process and applies to both Brown the College and the PLME at the same time with the same online application. Visit Page Open details for Application Process Degree Options As undergraduates, PLME students may choose to work toward an AB or ScB degree in the sciences, or toward an AB in the humanities, social sciences, or behavioral sciences. Visit Page Open details for Degree Options Facts & Figures A snapshot of what makes this innovative program so unique. Visit Page Open details for Facts &amp; Figures Admission & Aid Learn more about the application process and what options are available should you decide to apply to our program. Admission & Aid Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Information for Prospective Students Education Degree Options PLME Courses Pre-Clerkship Electives Research Summer Travel/Study Abroad Fellowships People Student Stories PLME Senate Programs Diversity Admission/Aid Requirements Application Process Eligibility Deadlines Financial Aid FAQ Student Resources Forms and Publications AMCAS International Programs Enrichment Activities This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Information for Prospective Students Open details for Information for Prospective Students Bookmark this Page