Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering You are here Home Opportunity Type Jobs Outreach Opportunities Fellowship Opportunities Level Postdoctoral Fellowships and Research Positions Internships PhD Student MS Student Faculty Undergraduate Student Research Area Foundational Areas Algorithms Artificial Intelligence Biology Biomechanics Computational Engineering Science Computing Systems Control Data Science Design Devices Fluids Genomics and Computational Modeling Imaging Materials Medicine Modeling & Simulation Nanoscience Neuroscience & Neuroengineering Robotics Sensing Systems Visualization Search 2021-22 Graduate/Post-Graduate/Mid-Career NYS Senate Fellowships The Graduate Fellowships offered by the Senate include Legislative Fellowships and Memorial Fellowships. Legislative Fellowships Each Legislative Fellow is assigned to a specific Senator’s office, where they will function largely as if they were regular staff. While duties vary depending on the needs of the member, Legislative Fellows generally perform in-depth policy research, take part in meetings with various interest groups and constituents, and attend legislative sessions. Memorial Fellowships Memorial Fellowships are awarded to applicants who demonstrate the unique qualifications and abilities required of each position. There are three such placements, each awarded to a single individual for the Fellowship class. LEARN MORE Aga Khan Foundation International Scholarship Programme The Aga Khan Foundation provides a limited number of scholarships each year for postgraduate studies to outstanding students from select developing countries who have no other means of financing their studies, in order to develop effective scholars and leaders and to prepare them for employment, primarily within the AKDN. Scholarships are awarded on a 50% grant : 50% loan basis through a competitive application process once a year in June or July. The Foundation gives priority to requests for Master's level courses but is willing to consider applications for PhD programmes, only in the case of outstanding students who are highly recommended for doctoral studies by their professors and who need a PhD for the fulfilment of their career objectives (academic or research oriented). Applications for short-term courses are not considered; neither are applications from students who have already started their course of study. ELIGIBILITY LEARN MORE American Cancer Society Postdoctoral Fellowship Who's Eligible: Researchers who have received a doctoral degree may apply for initial funding to start training for an independent career in cancer research (including basic, preclinical, clinical, cancer control, psychosocial, behavioral, epidemiology, health services and health policy research). Grant Term and Budget: Awards may be for 3 years with progressive stipends of $48,000, $50,000, and $52,000 per year, plus a $4,000 per year fellowship allowance. An additional $1,500 is added to the fellowship allowance in the last year to attend the ACS Postdoctoral Fellows Symposium or a domestic scientific meeting. Depending on availability of special endowment funds, the American Cancer Society annually selects one or more of the top-ranked fellowships to be supplemented above the standard stipend. Annual Application Deadlines: April 1 and October 15 LEARN MORE American Indian Graduate Center Scholarships AIGC offers more than 20 scholarships and fellowships that fund undergraduate, graduate, and professional degrees. Basic eligibility information LEARN MORE American-Scandinavian Foundation Fellowships and Grants The American-Scandinavian Foundation (ASF) offers fellowships (up to $23,000) and grants (up to $5,000) to individuals to pursue research, study or creative arts projects in one or more Scandinavian country for up to one year. Grants are considered suitable for post-graduate scholars, professionals, and candidates in the arts to carry out research or study visits of one to three months duration. LEARN MORE Audio Engineering Society Educational Foundation The Audio Engineering Society Educational Foundation is dedicated to encouraging the entry of talented students into the profession of audio engineering. Since its establishment in 1984, the Foundation has awarded grants for graduate studies to hundreds of exceptional applicants, many of whom have gone on to prominent and successful careers in the profession. We offer two types of scholarships: The AESEF Graduate Studies Grants and the Mary Lea Simpson Memorial Scholarship for a Recording Engineering Student. LEARN MORE Chateaubriand STEM Fellowship Program The Chateaubriand Fellowship is a grant offered by the Embassy of France in the United States. It supports outstanding Ph.D. students from American universities who wish to conduct research in France for a period ranging from 4 to 9 months. Chateaubriand fellows are selected through a merit-based competition, through a collaborative process involving expert evaluators in both countries. The Chateaubriand Fellowship in Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics & Biology-Health (STEM) for doctoral students aims to initiate or reinforce collaborations, partnerships or joint projects between French and American research teams. This fellowship is offered by the Office for Science & Technology (OST) of the Embassy of France in partnership with American universities and French research organizations such as Inserm and Inria. It is a partner of the National Science Foundation’s GROW program . LEARN MORE CTL Lead Teaching Fellowship The LTF program is a professional development opportunity for doctoral students who are committed to promoting pedagogical practices and conversations among graduate students. LTFs participate in a series of meetings at the CTL, organize teaching-related workshops in their home departments, and act as liaisons between their peers and the CTL. LTF program activities are listed on the bottom of this page. LEARN MORE Department of Energy Computational Science Graduate Fellowship The DOE CSGF is open to U.S. citizens or permanent resident aliens who plan full-time, uninterrupted study toward a Ph.D. at an accredited U.S. university. We encourage applications from students in engineering and the physical, computer, mathematical or life sciences who meet the following eligibility requirements. The fellowship provides four years of support, but must be renewed each summer. LEARN MORE Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Fellowship The Will of Dolores Zohrab Liebman created a perpetual charitable trust designated as “The Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Fund” for the purpose of funding advanced education and graduate study grants, which must be carried out entirely in the United States of America. The Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Fellowships are to be awarded only to candidates that meet the following criteria: CANDIDATE QUALIFICATIONS LEARN MORE Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Fellowship The Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Fund was established by the Will of Dolores Zohrab Liebmann and is administered by JPMorgan. Mrs. Liebmann was the daughter of a prominent Armenian intellectual, writer and statesman and was married to one of the owners of a successful American business. She supported students and educational and charitable organizations during her lifetime. The purpose of the fund is to attract and support students with outstanding character and ability who hold promise for achievement and distinction in their chosen fields of study. LEARN MORE Dr. Nancy Foster Scholarship Program The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Dr. Nancy Foster Scholarship Program recognizes outstanding scholarship and encourages independent graduate level research -- particularly by female and minority students -- in NOAA mission-related sciences of oceanography, marine biology and maritime archaeology, including all science, engineering and resource management of ocean and coastal areas. Scholarship selections are based on academic excellence, letters of recommendations, research and career goals and financial need. In order to have a competitive application for the Dr. Nancy Foster Scholarship Program, it is recommended that you review the following bullets to assess whether or not you should apply for this scholarship. LEARN MORE item: (1 - 12) Next › Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University