Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Public Budgeting and Finance Certificate Request Info Program at a Glance Program Graduate Certificate College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Public Administration, Schl of The Graduate Certificate in Public Budgeting and Finance is designed to meet the growing needs in our governments to understand and apply varied and complex budgeting and financial practices. The program is primarily aimed at students who wish to specialize in budgeting and finance careers in the public sector. The certificate curriculum prepares students to pursue the Certified Government Finance Officer designation from the Florida Government Finance Officers Association. Total Credit Hours Required: 18 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor’s Degree This program has potential ties to state-regulated professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CCIE-Public-Budgeting-and-Finance-GC.pdf. Request Information View Full Description Application Deadlines Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. CEO COO Chief Executive Officer Child Welfare Director City Council Member Community Service Director Department Store General Manager Distribution Center Manager Family Service Center Director General Manager Government Service Executive Logistics Manager Logistics Supply Officer Postal Supervisor Postmaster Selectman Social Services Director Transportation Manager Warehouse Operations Manager Youth Program Director Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Graduate Certificates Public Budgeting and Finance Certificate University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Public Budgeting and Finance Certificate program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Graduate Certificate in Public Budgeting and Finance is designed to meet the growing needs in our governments to understand and apply varied and complex budgeting and financial practices. The program is primarily aimed at students who wish to specialize in budgeting and finance careers in the public sector. The certificate curriculum prepares students to pursue the Certified Government Finance Officer designation from the Florida Government Finance Officers Association. Total Credit Hours Required: 18 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor’s Degree This program has potential ties to state-regulated professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CCIE-Public-Budgeting-and-Finance-GC.pdf. Degree Requirements Required Courses 12 Total Credits Complete the following: PAD6207 - Public Financial Management (3) PAD6227 - Public Budgeting (3) PAD6238 - Revenue Policy and Administration (3) PAD6616 - Economic Principles for Public Policy and Management (3) Electives 6 Total Credits Complete at least 2 of the following: PAD5356 - Managing Community and Economic Development (3) PAD5850 - Grant and Contract Management (3) PAD5855 - Introduction to Public Procurement (3) PAD6208 - Nonprofit Financial Management (3) PAD6234 - Public Capital and Debt (3) PAD6254 - Economics of Land Use Planning and Development (3) PAD6260 - Fundamentals of Public Sector Accounting (3) Grand Total Credits: 18 Application Requirements Admission is open to those with a bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. An application to the graduate certificate program and official transcripts must be submitted. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. All applicants to this certificate program will be required to submit: An official transcript in a sealed envelope from each college/university attended, showing a GPA of 2.5 or better on a 4.0 scale. A current, professional resume. Statement of Goals: This is a key component of the admission review process and serves as an example of the applicant’s ability to express him or herself in writing. The goal statement must be no longer than two pages and should address the following: What is your reason for pursing graduate study in Public Budgeting and Finance, including your future goals and plans? What specific areas of Public Budgeting and Finance interest you? Any previous work experience in the field. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. Application Deadlines Public Budgeting and Finance Graduate Certificate *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jul 1 Nov 1 International Applicants University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida