Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Crews School of Accountancy Welcome Programs Faculty Research Admissions & Current Students FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact MS in Accounting MS in Accounting Home Admissions Tuition, Fees, and Opportunities Academic Regulations Goals and Objectives Take Action Networking & Career Development Financial Assistance Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Crews School of Accountancy MS in Accounting Master of Science in Accounting Memphis and the MidSouth region support a thriving service‐oriented economy, being a world class distribution center and home to several other key service industries including health care, hotel and resort management, and financial services. The master's program at the School of Accountancy provides the conceptual foundation and professional skills supportive of the service sector market we serve and consistent with employment opportunities. A student wishing to pursue a Master of Science in Accounting has three educational tracks from which to choose: Accounting - Data Analytics Concentration Accounting - General Accounting Concentration Accounting - Taxation Concentration The accounting program offers students a meaningful choice of coursework to prepare them for their chosen career paths. Our master's program advisor is: Dr. Jim Lukawitz Email | 901.678.3030 Admission Admission to the Master of Science degree program is granted to graduates of accredited colleges and universities who show high promise of success in graduate business study. Qualified candidates may enter the program at the beginning of any semester. The admission requirements include satisfactory performance on undergraduate course work and a recent (five years or less) GMAT admissions examination score. The GMAT is waived for candidates who have received an undergraduate business degree with a grade point average of 3.5 or higher from an AACSB‐accredited university (or from Christian Brothers University, Lemoyne‐Owen College, or Rhodes College) within five years prior to registering for the University of Memphis Master's program. The GMAT is waived for candidates who have passed the CPA exam. Five-Year Professional Accounting Program (5PAP) The Five‐year Professional Accounting Program is a five‐year, 150‐hour program that leads to the awarding of a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) degree and a Master of Science in Accounting (MS) degree. The program is responsive to the requirements of many states, including Tennessee, that CPA licensure requires 150 hours of education. The benefit of obtaining the needed hours through a graduate program is that individuals with graduate degrees typically command higher starting salaries and earn more throughout their careers. When should you apply? You should apply at the beginning of your final or next to last semester. What are the requirements for admission? To be eligible for the 5PAP program, you must: be enrolled in the University of Memphis undergraduate accounting program within 30 semester hours of meeting your undergraduate degree requirements with a 3.50 or higher GPA. 1 What are the advantages? You are not required to take the GMAT exam for admission to the Master's program. You may take up to 4 courses toward your MS prior to completing the requirements for your undergraduate degree and thereby perhaps complete the MS degree sooner. Your classification during the period you are taking both undergraduate courses and graduate courses will be Combination Senior as described later in this Handbook. With that classification, you pay undergraduate tuition for your remaining undergraduate courses and any graduate courses you take while in the classification (two semesters maximum, up to 4 graduate courses). Important Note: Students receiving undergraduate scholarships or Pell grants typically lose eligibility for their funding. Students encountering this problem should consult with the Master's Coordinator and consider entering the MS program after earning their BBA degrees. You can apply online! 1 The GMAT is waived for candidates who have received an undergraduate business degree with a grade point average of 3.5 or higher from an AACSB‐accredited university (or from Christian Brothers University, Lemoyne‐Owen College, or Rhodes College) within five years prior to registering for the University of Memphis Master's program. The GMAT is waived for candidates who have passed the CPA exam. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/23/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.