Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu FedEx Institute of Technology About Research Innovation Engagement Emerging Tech Training Tech Transfer Impact Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Emerging Tech Training Research Collaborations News & Impact Distinguished Guests Follow Us FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home FedEx Institute of Technology About FedEx Institute of Technology Welcome to the FedEx Institute of Technology Success Requires Innovation The FedEx Institute of Technology is an advanced technology and research organization that serves as the front door to the research infrastructure and innovation capabilities of the University of Memphis. It functions as a catalyst for interdisciplinary research and innovation in emerging technologies by supporting cross-campus research innovation clusters. These clusters focus on areas such as intelligent systems, drones, cybersecurity testing, biologistics, autonomous vehicles, robotics, agriculture and food technologies, smart biomaterials, electric vehicles, additive manufacturing and precision medicine. The Institute is also home to the University's intellectual property and patent repository, which is the focal point of technology transfer and licensing operations. The Institute supports regional community efforts to increase both the size and technical sophistication of the regional technology workforce. Additionally, the University's Graduate School, that serves appropriately 1,000 doctoral and 3,000 masters students in 118 graduate and research programs across campus, is also located at the FedEx Institute of Technology. The Institute enjoys a unique innovation partnership with FedEx, which sponsors the Institute for advanced research purposes. The Institute is the central hub for efforts to maintain a cutting-edge innovative environment in the Mid-South region. It also offers training and collaboration opportunities in emerging technologies and related breakthrough concepts. Technology Commercialization The Office of Technology Transfer, housed in the FedEx Institute, is where you'll hear about the next big phenomenon. We boldly invest in promising new innovations that have the potential to be breakthrough commercial products. We also license valuable intellectual property to local companies, clearing the way for them to exclusively develop cutting-edge technologies. We are a revenue generator for the University and the inventors that support and encourage development of new science and technology innovations. The work we do is exciting and far reaching — impacting the region's economy by influencing new business ventures, strengthening existing enterprises and fueling remarkable new research. Take a look inside the FedEx Institute of Technology at a stop on the UofM virtual tour. Memphis Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/27/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.