Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home UW Budget Annual Budgets About the Budget Compensation Budget Processes Budget Policies Activity Based Budgeting Unit Operating Budget Numbers and Organizational Codes BGT Database Fund References UW Academy COVID Expense and Revenue Loss Tracking Guidelines Financial Reports and Dashboard Resources Forms Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fee Questions Current Tuition And Fees Dashboards Estimated Annual Cost of Attendance for First-Year Undergraduates Required Student Fees Course Fees Fee-Based Programs Graduate Appointment Waivers Tuition History Tuition Disclosures UW Data Fast Facts UW Profiles Information External Reporting Peer Comparisons Internal Data Resources UW Academic & Fiscal Calendars State Operations State Budget Information Bill Tracking & Legislative Resources Fiscal Notes State Funding Policies and Guidelines Legislative Process & Terms Briefs Blog About OPB Contact Us Directory Org Chart Mission, Vision, and Values Institutional Data & Analysis Financial Analysis & Budget Strategy Policy, Planning & State Operations Office of Planning & Budgeting Menu Home UW Budget Annual Budgets About the Budget Compensation Budget Processes Budget Policies Activity Based Budgeting Unit Operating Budget Numbers and Organizational Codes BGT Database Fund References UW Academy COVID Expense and Revenue Loss Tracking Guidelines Financial Reports and Dashboard Resources Forms Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fee Questions Current Tuition And Fees Dashboards Estimated Annual Cost of Attendance for First-Year Undergraduates Required Student Fees Course Fees Fee-Based Programs Graduate Appointment Waivers Tuition History Tuition Disclosures UW Data Fast Facts UW Profiles Information External Reporting Peer Comparisons Internal Data Resources UW Academic & Fiscal Calendars State Operations State Budget Information Bill Tracking & Legislative Resources Fiscal Notes State Funding Policies and Guidelines Legislative Process & Terms Briefs Blog About OPB Contact Us Directory Org Chart Mission, Vision, and Values Institutional Data & Analysis Financial Analysis & Budget Strategy Policy, Planning & State Operations Home Office of Planning & Budgeting Office of Planning & Budgeting Reporting directly to the Provost, the University of Washington Office of Planning & Budgeting (OPB) supports the UW community in accomplishing its goals through the planning and allocation of financial and physical resources, and by providing analysis and information services to enhance university decision-making, planning, and policy formation. OPB works closely with UW stakeholder groups and advisory bodies such as the Provost’s Advisory Committee for Students (PACS), the Faculty Senate Committee on Planning & Budgeting (SCPB), and the Board of Deans and Chancellors (BODC). OPB also works closely with the Capital & Space Management team in UW Facilities regarding capital budget issues and intersections with state and UW operating budgets. The Office of Planning & Budgeting is committed to aligning with the University’s Race & Equity Initiative and Diversity Blueprint. More information is available on the Mission, Vision, & Values section of our website. Latest News Legislative Kick-Off The 2022 Legislative Kick-Off was held by OPB and the Office of State Relations on January 6. The annual event provides critical information to campus stakeholders in advance of the state legislative session, which began on January 10. A recording of the event is available here. Overview of presentations: Slides 1 – 2: Introductions Slides 3 – 22: Legislative Process, Bill Analysis & LobbyGov Slides 23 – 34: Fiscal Note Updates & Reminders Slides 35 – 39: 2021 Legislative Session & Budget Slides 40 – 49: Tips for Effective Legislative Advocacy & UW State Legislative Agenda ABB Phase III Review Preliminary Steering Committee Report In December, the three ABB subcommittees concluded their analyses and produced reports for the steering committee’s review. In February, the steering committee completed a preliminary report summarizing the findings and recommendations from each subcommittee report for consideration by the Provost. The steering committee reports and full preliminary report can be found on the ABB Committees and Reports page. To submit comments to the Steering Committee, please use this form. 2020 Legislative Session Overview The following documents, available on the OPB Briefs page, provide summaries of the 2020 state legislative session: Senate and House Leadership 2020 Supplemental Budget Proposals: A brief outlining the 2020 state supplemental budget funding decisions and outcomes. 2020 Session Bill Summary: A list of policy and budget bills tracked by the University that passed the legislature during the 2020 session. 2020 Session Fiscal Note Summary: A list of all fiscal notes completed by the University during the 2020 session. The 2020 legislative session ended on time on March 12, 2020. Given the COVID-19 crisis, the Governor vetoed significant portions of new funding in the state compromise budget. We anticipate that the legislature might take action to reduce FY21 appropriations in a special session later this year or early on in the January 2021 legislative session. OPB has a new website! In mid-January 2019, OPB went live with a new website. Please update your bookmarks and links to: http://www.washington.edu/opb/. If you notice any issues or have questions about our new website, please email uwir@uw.edu. Quick Links 2022 Fast Facts UW FY22 Budget OPBlog UW Recognized in Princeton Review’s Best Value College Rankings May 6, 2022 February Revenue Forecast Reflects Sustained Growth as Legislature Finalizes their Supplemental Budget Proposals February 17, 2022 UW Fast Facts 2022 – Now Available! February 3, 2022 November Revenue Forecast Shows “Stronger than Expected” Revenue Collections Despite Continued Challenges December 1, 2021 September Revenue Forecast Shows Overall Continued Economic Growth September 29, 2021 University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA