Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State The Ohio State University Alumni Association GIVE NOW Activities and events Virtual engagement Upcoming events On-demand events Alumni Tours Rent event space Ohio State Alumni Awards 2022 Alumni Awards: Call for Nominations Membership Your membership Become a life donor Career Management Official ring Communities Alumnifire Alumni clubs and societies Find a club Find a society BuckeyeBuzz submission form Resources Buckeye Advocates Buckeye Room Classmates Current students Recent graduates Student-Alumni Council Student-Alumni Council Beat Tees Young Alumni Academy Pay forward Alumni Scholars Program Volunteer opportunities Scholarships Student recruitment Team Buckeye The Oval Collection Wines Buckeyes Helping Buckeyes News Ohio State Alumni Magazine Advertising Issues In Memoriam Go Buckeyes! Buckeye Football Ticket Process Ohio State Athletics Game Watch Game Watch Abroad About About us Contact info Staff directory Video collection The Engagement Center The Engagement Center Team Home Communities Young Alumni Academy Young Alumni Academy Young Alumni Academy (YAA) is a professional and personal development program for young Ohio State alumni. If you are interested in the 2022–2023 cohort, please complete this interest form and we’ll notify you when applications become available. In the meantime, feel free to check out information about last year’s cohort. About YAA is designed to empower young Buckeyes and provide them with the skills they need to be successful — in the workplace and in life. Throughout the program, participants will hear from experts and community leaders about a variety of topics, including salary negotiation, conflict resolution and inclusion. In addition to professional development, participants will participate in sessions designed to help them connect with other Buckeyes. YAA fosters relationships between young professionals within the Ohio State community, while providing opportunities to connect with seasoned alumni for networking, advice and professional guidance. Additional information • All Young Alumni Academy sessions will occur virtually via Zoom. Participants can be located anywhere with reliable internet access. • All alumni of The Ohio State University who are under the age of 30 are eligible to apply. • The application consists of a current resume and a few short-answer essays. • The selection committee for Young Alumni Academy will consist of Ohio State faculty, staff and alumni. Tuition Young Alumni Academy tuition is $45, and includes access to all professional development sessions, YAA apparel and gifts. Payment is due upon acceptance into the academy. How to apply We are not currently accepting applications for Young Alumni Academy. Information about the 2022-2023 cohort will be available during Summer 2022. When All sessions will be held from 6–7:15 p.m. ET unless otherwise noted. Monthly Sessions: • Tuesday, October 19, 2021 — Welcome/Program Overview • Tuesday, November 9, 2021 — Session I • Tuesday, December 7, 2021 — Session II • Tuesday, January 11, 2022 — Session III • Tuesday, February 8, 2022 — Session IV • Tuesday, March 8, 2022 — Session V • Tuesday, April 12, 2022 — Closing Celebration Networking & Relationship Building (attend at least three): • Tuesday, October 26, 2021 • Thursday, November 18, 2021 • Thursday, December 16, 2021 • Thursday, January 27, 2022 • Thursday, February 24, 2022 • Thursday, March 24, 2022 Completion of the program Participants should plan to commit 2-4 hours per month to this program. Participants are expected to attend all monthly sessions, in addition to the opening and closing celebrations. Participants are also expected to participate in three networking events and four micro-mentoring meetings. More information on these requirements will be provided upon acceptance into the program. Upon successful completion of the program, graduates will be invited to join an emeriti group to stay connected with The Ohio State University Alumni Association. Questions? Please contact Lindsay Seminara at seminara.6@osu.edu. © 2022 The Ohio State University Alumni Association Longaberger Alumni House | 2200 Olentangy River Road, Columbus, OH 43210 Contact: 614-292-2200 or 800-678-6355 | Webmaster | Page maintained by University Marketing Request an alternate format of this page | Web Services Status | Nondiscrimination notice Ohio State Alumni Assoc. The Ohio State University