Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Alumni Recruiters Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Carroll School? Diversity & Inclusion Diversity News Accreditation Board of Advisors Faculty Openings Visit Contact Related Links About Boston College Maps & Directions BC News Undergraduate Overview Academics Advising Peer Advisors Staff Advisors Concentrations Minors The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Career Accelerator Summer Management Catalyst Program Portico Careers Social Media CSOM Undergraduate Career Resources Placement Data Career Accelerator Study Abroad Community & Student Life FAQ CSOM Undergrad FAQs: COVID-19 Mar 13: Letter From Undergraduate Dean's Office Mar 20: Registration and Advising Updates Contact Graduate Overview Admission Visits and Events Tuition and Aid O’Brien Fellowship Graduate Admission FAQ International Applicants Information for U.S. Military MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Part-Time MBA Data Analytics Sequence Electives Applied Learning BC MBA Ambassadors M.S. Programs M.S. in Finance M.S. in Accounting Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Organization Studies Community & Student Life Living in Boston Career Development Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Part-Time Faculty Faculty Expertise Departments Overview Concentrations Academics Accounting Undergraduate Concentrations Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Business Analytics Concentration & Academics Careers Seminar Series Message From the Chairperson Business Law & Society Finance Academics and Study Abroad F22 Registration Info Faculty Ph.D. Program Seminar Series Job Market Candidates Message From the Chairperson Information Systems Concentration & Academics Message From the Chairperson Seminar Series Management & Organization Concentration & Academics Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Marketing Concentration & Academics Careers Awards and Appointments Faculty Message From the Chairperson Fall 2022 Registration Centers Related Links About Boston College Maps & Directions BC News Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Carroll School Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Alumni Recruiters BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home About About Dean's Message Why the Carroll School? Diversity & Inclusion Accreditation Board of Advisors Faculty Openings Visit Contact About the Carroll School Leading with Purpose How do you become an expert in your chosen field, able to think broadly and creatively with a passion for lifelong learning? At the Carroll School of Management, we help students find the answers every day—with our dual focus on dedicated teaching and top-level research by a world-renowned faculty. Carroll School professors are at the forefront of their fields, globally recognized scholars who stand out in their disciplines and innovate in the classroom. Our students enjoy personal interaction with faculty and engage the realities of today’s business world through distinctive courses, experiential learning, and service to others. We prepare students with the resources, vision, knowledge, and skills to form meaningful careers and help others to excel—all within the context of a Jesuit Catholic university that prioritizes intellectual inquiry and critical analysis. Carroll School graduates emerge as leaders who apply fresh ideas and ethical perspectives to the most pressing challenges of the 21st century. Related Links About Boston College Maps & Directions BC News mission The Carroll School of Management at Boston College ranks among the world’s leading business schools. It offers a rigorous, transformative academic experience that integrates the study of management with the liberal arts, while developing the skills of critical thinking and fostering ethical leadership. Part of a vibrant, Jesuit Catholic university, the Carroll School draws inspiration and direction from our centuries-old religious and intellectual heritage. We maintain an enduring conviction that successful management education in the 21st century must combine excellence in teaching and research with reflection and action. The Carroll School educates the whole person in an atmosphere that is inclusive, ethical, caring, collaborative, and respectful of all, consistent with Boston College’s institutional mission and motto of “Ever to Excel.” #1 Teaching Quality Poets & Quants #19 Faculty Research, Worldwide Average Financial Times Ranking, Past 5 Years #13 Best Undergraduate Business Schools, 2020 Poets & Quants Play Meet Dean Andy Boynton As Dean of the Carroll School of Management, Andy Boynton collaborates with a talented group of colleagues to create a management school that excels in teaching and research. The Carroll School faculty and staff are committed to transforming students to become ethical and effective leaders. Dean's Message “We create the conditions for students to soar. We challenge them academically, and give them numerous opportunities to apply their knowledge to the real world. We expose them to big ideas, encouraging them to pursue their passions and inspiring them to become lifelong learners. Here, they work with great faculty, top-notch students, and other experts every step of the way. ” Andy Bonyton, John and Linda Powers Family Dean, Carroll School of Management The Carroll School Experience Career Development From interview prep and resumes to job searches, networking, and negotiation with employers, students seeking career guidance have access to the Carroll School’s dedicated Career Advisors and the Boston College Career Center. Academics Rigorous and renowned, a Carroll School education is also distinctive: Our approach to business education encourages students to pursue their passions and explore a lively range of subjects that complement their management knowledge. Centers & Initiatives Our eight academic and research centers connect students to resources, events, and opportunities that enrich their academic experience and allow them to engage directly in meaningful work. A Different Kind of Business Education Ethically informed leadership, relentless inquiry, continuous development as a well-rounded person—these values have always been at the core of the Jesuit liberal arts tradition, and they animate the Carroll School’s top-tier management education. Why the Carroll School? Back To Top Back To Top Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College