Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content Close × Close × About About About the Office Meet the Team International Partners COVID-19 Announcements International Students International Students Our International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Go Abroad Seton Hall University Events PirateNet Menu Seton Hall University Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Faculty Office of the Provost Resources Undergraduate Admissions Office of Graduate Affairs Academic Calendar Mission and Ministry Alumni and Friends Quick Links Seton Hall Homepage Seton Hall News University Calendar SHU Athletics Support Seton Hall Events PirateNet University Site Search Seton Hall University About About the Office Meet the Team International Partners COVID-19 Announcements International Students Our International Students Study Abroad Go Abroad Office of International Programs Our Mission The Office of International Programs (OIP) is a multipurpose center that creates, supports, and encourages international activities throughout our campuses and around the world. Meet with OIP Study Abroad Learn More Experience new cultures, languages, and places while meeting your academic goals. International Students Learn More Seton Hall welcomes and supports students who are visiting from outside of the U.S. Contact Us Study Abroad: studyabroad@shu.edu International Students: oip@shu.edu Phone: (973) 761-9072 Mon – Fri: 8:45 a.m. – 4:45 p.m. Presidents Hall, Room 9 Seton Hall University NEWS Study Abroad Is Back at Seton Hall Seton Hall's first study abroad trip since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic has taken flight! The study abroad experience in Italy, through the course Foundations of Christian Culture. March 2-14. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS NEWS From New Jersey to Italy and Back Again The participants in the Catholic Studies Spring 2022 study abroad experience, Foundations of Christian Culture – Italy, returned from their travels a month ago and have settled in. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS NEWS Seton Hall Forms Partnership with the Uniandes Seton Hall fosters global collaboration in a partnership with the Universidad de los Andes in Colombia focused on innovation in research and educational practice. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS A World to Explore – Study Abroad Click here for more information on our international partners. Seton Hall has a wide range of study abroad options for students who want to travel for a full semester or just a few weeks. Explore Study Abroad Get Started Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9000 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top