Skip to main content 01/06/202215:51 COVID-19 News and Updates Learn More Close Alert Bryn Mawr Sites Bryn Mawr Home Graduate & Postbac Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Graduate School of Social Work and Social Research Postbaccalaureate Premedical Program Inside Bryn Mawr Main Admissions and Aid About the Program Outside the Classroom After Bryn Mawr Full Menu Bryn Mawr Sites Bryn Mawr Home Graduate & Postbac Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Graduate School of Social Work and Social Research Postbaccalaureate Premedical Program Inside Bryn Mawr Main Admissions and Aid toggle submenu Application Deadlines How to Apply Program Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Measey Foundation Scholarships FAQs about Admissions Supporting Your Success Postbac Premed Interview Information Postbac Premed Admitted Student Information About the Program toggle submenu From the Director Becoming Part of Our Learning Community Curriculum Undergraduate Schools Postbac Class Profile Former Student Survey FAQs about the Program Staff Outside the Classroom toggle submenu Health-Related Volunteer Opportunities - Map Campus Life Town and City Volunteer Opportunities After Bryn Mawr toggle submenu Medical School Linkages Linkage Options FAQ Preparing for Medical School Admission Making the Most of Your Glide Year Medical School Admissions Statistics Alumnae/i Profiles Toggle actions Apply Apply Info Info Give Give Ancillary News Events Maps and Directions Resources for Resources For Prospective Postbac Students All Current Students All Faculty and Staff Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Search Search Toggle actions Apply Apply Info Info Give Give Postbaccalaureate Premedical Program Changing Course? Read About Our Placement Successes Classroom Preparation Learn About Our Curriculum Our program is both rigorous and rewarding. Over a 12-month period of intensive, full-time study in the classroom, our students are thoroughly prepared for the challenges of medical school. After completing our program, virtually all students who apply—over 98 percent—are accepted to medical school. Medical School Linkages Explore the linkage option. A Popular Choice The Details Linkage FAQs Making the Most of Your Glide Year All About Admissions We look for applicants who show a strong academic record at both the high school and college levels. About the Process Supporting Your Success Supportive, individual academic and premedical advising is one of the hallmarks of the Bryn Mawr program. Preparing for Medical School Take the Next Step Apply Request Information Back to top Canwyll House East 101 N. Merion Ave. Bryn Mawr, PA 19010 610-526-7350 postbac@brynmawr.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Make A Difference Help future students by supporting Bryn Mawr College. Give Now © 2022 Bryn Mawr College. All rights reserved. Footer Jobs Privacy Policy Report a Website Issue Title IX Web Accessibility New Website Update/Edit Request