Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research DEI Initiatives Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate PhD in Clinical Psychology About the ProgramWelcoming DiversityClinical FacultyChild ClinicalClinical Health PsychologyPsychotherapy ResearchAdmissionClinical Student HandbookClinical Program AnnouncementsClinical Alumni News PhD in Experimental Psychology About the ProgramExperimental FacultyCognitiveBehavioral NeuroscienceRequired CoursesAdmissionFinancial Support PhD in School Psychology About the Programs Program Overview School Faculty Historical Statement Financial Support Program Philosophy and Training Model Program Competencies School Psychology Doctoral Handbook School Psychology Association Child & Family Studies Research Group MA/Ed.S. in School Psychology About the Programs Program Overview School Faculty M.A./Ed.S. Program Goals Historical Statement Financial Support School Psychology MA/ED.S. Handbook School Psychology Association What is a School Psychologist? Child & Family Studies Research Group Masters in General Psychology About the ProgramProgram GoalsRequired CoursesAdmission Apply to Psychology Graduate Programs Instructions for ApplyingApply Now Graduate Student Coordinating Committee About GSCCGSCC Concerns/ComplaintsGSCC Travel Funding Graduate Program Forms and Resources Clinical Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data School Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data Take Action Psychology Advanced Degrees Academic Advising & Resource Center (AARC) The Psychological Services Center Teaching Take-Out Facebook Home Department of Psychology Graduate School Psychology Program - Historical Statement School Psychology Program - Historical Statement Historical Development and Governance The School Psychology Programs at The University of Memphis were initially founded in 1976, when the MA/EdS program was jointly started by the Department of Psychology and the College of Education (COE). The new program was established following changes in the requirements for the Tennessee State Department of Education certification (now licensure) of school psychologists (circa 1975) and the need for a revised school psychology program at what was then called Memphis State University. The revised program was developed by the School Psychology Coordinating Committee (SPCC), which was established at the request of the Vice President for Academic Affairs. The SPCC functioned as the policy-making body for the jointly sponsored MA/EdS program until August 2015. The new MA program was the first instance of a school psychology specific degree at The University of Memphis. Dr. Thomas Fagan, the first school psychology faculty member, was hired in 1976. He served the program for 45 years until he retired in fall 2021; he is now professor emeritus. Dr. Bruce Bracken served the program from 1986-1999, and Dr. Wendy Naumann served from 1998-2001. Dr. Randy Floyd joined the faculty in 2001, and Dr. Robin Phaneuf served from 2002-2006. Dr. Elizabeth Meisinger joined the faculty in 2007, and Dr. Xu (Lilya) Jiang served from 2015-2020. Dr. Sarah Irby joined the faculty in 2020. Drs. Floyd, Irby, and Meisinger constitute the core program faculty and are supported by faculty in other areas of the Psychology Department, the COE, and local practitioners who assist in field supervision. Based out of the Psychology Department, the jointly sponsored MA/EdS program was indirectly overseen by the Dean of the COE and the Chair of the Psychology Department until 2015. The MA/EdS program was governed by a 10-member SPCC. All policies and curricula related to this program were the responsibility of the committee and were implemented by the MA/EdS program Director. The SPCC developed a set of policy statements for the program as well as the original 45-semester-hour MA degree in 1975-1976. The current 60-66 semester-hour combined MA/EdS degree curriculum was initiated in 1982. The PhD program was initiated in 1991 but governed by the policies of the Psychology Department's PhD major. Program curricula and requirements for the different programs (MA/EdS and MS/PhD) were determined entirely by the SPCC and by the Psychology Department, respectively. Starting in the fall of 2014, the directorship of the two programs was divided to accommodate the growth of the doctoral program. The programs continued to overlap is several areas of the curriculum and other areas (e.g., the School Psychology Association and practica). In the summer of 2015 at a meeting of the core faculty with the UM Provost, the Interim Dean of the College of Education, and the chair of the Department of Psychology, it was agreed to restructure the governance of the MA/EdS program by drawing it into the governance of the Psychology Department. A revised School Psychology Program Committee (SPPC) was created to oversee the MA/EdS and the MS/PhD programs. The 2015 restructured governance arrangement retains the separate directorships, and the chair of the SPPC rotates between the two directors. The MA/EdS program has been accredited by NASP/NCATE (now CAEP) since the 1970s and first received NCATE/NASP approval in 1988. This approval has been uninterrupted and is active through December 2024. Accreditation of the PhD program from the American Psychological Association was awarded in fall, 2014 and the next site visit is expected in 2022. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.