Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Students Student Organizations Student Organizations Part of your learning experience includes what happens outside the classroom. We encourage you to become involved in our Student Bar Association and our 40+ student organizations. Getting involved helps you expand your network, learn about different practice areas, and develop your leadership skills. All student organizations are encouraged to use Connect.SMU. If your Organization is not on Connect.SMU, please contact Elizabeth Veale, Student Bar Association Secretary, at aveale@smu.edu to gain access. Planning an event? The Special-Event-Handbook is here to assist you. Need to reserve a room? The Reserve a Room Procedure form is here to assist you. Organizations Student Government Student Bar Association The Student Bar Association (SBA) is the governing body for the students at Southern Methodist University's Dedman School of Law. The objectives of the SBA are to advance the best interests of legal education; to actively support and institute, when necessary, procedures and practices for the betterment of the law school; and to promote the academic, professional and social well-being of the membership. The SBA also represents the concerns and interests of the law school student body and sponsors a variety of extracurricular events. All students are urged to serve on one or more of the SBA committees. The SMU Student Bar Association (SBA) is composed of all students in the School of Law. Each year the students of the Dedman School of Law elect 21 student representatives, including 4 executive officers, to serve on the SBA Voting Council. The Voting Council is the Legislative arm of the SBA. Officers, second-year, and third-year class representatives are elected in the spring semester of each academic year. Class representatives for first-year students are elected approximately one month after the fall semester has commenced. Mailing Address: The Student Bar Association Dedman School of Law Southern Methodist University P.O. Box 750116 Dallas, Texas 75275-0116 Phone: 214-768-2359 For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Student Bar Association page. Student Bar Association Mentorship Program For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Student Bar Association Mentorship Program page. Affinity Group Asian Pacific American Law Students Association Asian Pacific American Law Students Association (APALSA) is a non-profit, 501(c)(3) organization dedicated to the facilitation of character, community, and culture amongst Asian Pacific American students, professionals and community members. For more information about the organization and its activities, please join the the APALSA page. Black Law Students Association The Black Law Student Association (BLSA) is one of the largest student-run organizations in the country. Mr. A.J. Cooper founded the organization on the campus of NYU Law School in 1968 to nurture the educational needs of black law students and affect change in the academic and legal communities. Today the SMU BLSA chapter perpetuates that mission through academic and professional programs that help students of all ethnicities navigate through law school. Our programs seek to empower students with the tools they need to learn business etiquette, networking, and professionalism, in a legal framework. We offer opportunities to participate in various community service initiatives, so students may start learning early in our legal careers how to balance professional demands and community involvement. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the BLSA page. Disability Law Association For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Disability Law Association page. First-Generation Law Students Association For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the First Generation Law Student Association page. Hispanic Law Students Association The Hispanic Law Students Association's (HLSA) purpose is to serve as a support organization for Hispanic students, to facilitate awareness of education and professional opportunities to these students, and to promote Hispanic interests and awareness in the larger community through involvement with other campus minority organizations, community service projects, and interaction with the Dallas Hispanic legal community. By planning meetings and events that welcome all students at SMU Dedman School of Law, HLSA aims to serve the larger law school community, as well as those who choose to be HLSA members. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Hispanic Law Student Association page. Jewish Law Students Association The Jewish Law Students Association (JLSA) is a cultural, social, and educational organization that reflects the varied interests of the Jewish student community of SMU Dedman School of Law. We open our group to anyone and host Shabbat dinners, events on holidays, doing our best to unite a strong Jewish community on and off campus. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Jewish Law Student Association page. Muslim Law Students Association The Muslim Law Students Association (MLSA) is a student-run organization that serves the unique interests and needs of Muslim law students through community-building, increased awareness of particular issues that impact Muslims, and through collaborations with other organizations dedicated to meaningful discourse. We will have educational and social events throughout the semester. Everyone is welcome! For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the SMU Muslim Law Students Association page. Non-Traditional Law Students Association The Non-Traditional Law Students Association is dedicated to meeting the needs and concerns of the non-traditional SMU Dedman Law student, including but not limited to married students, students with children, those who hold full time jobs and/or are returning to school from the position of an established career, and part-time and evening students. We also sponsor SMU Law Babies, a social group for law students with small children. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Non-Traditional Law Students Association page. OUTLaw SMU OUTlaw is a diverse group of law students, faculty, staff, and their significant others and friends who all support lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) persons and initiatives. OUTlaw works to enrich the SMU Dedman School of Law community by providing: Educational programs open to the entire student body; Career-related events linking students with the local Dallas legal community; and Social and small group events both on and off campus. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the OUTLaw page. South Asian Law Students Association The South Asian Law Student Association (SALSA) exists for three reasons. First, to increase the visibility of South Asian and Middle Eastern (SAME) culture on campus. Second, to advocate for increased professional and academic advancement opportunities for (SAME) students. Third, to create a conduit with the SAME legal community in Texas. This year, one of the organization's purposes involves setting up a South Asian Law Student Scholarship for one of our members who tragically died last year. When and where does the organization meet? Meetings will be held biweekly to monthly, location and time TBD. Our members have varied interests and schedules and so flexibility is warranted in setting standards for organizational meetings. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the South Asian Law Student Association page. Veterans Law Association SMU Veterans Law Association (VLA) strives to ensure that veterans and their families are supported by legal representation in all matters. VLA also supports legislation that benefits those who served to keep America's freedoms safe from those that would try to end them. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the SMU Veterans Law Association page. Women in Law Women in Law (WIL) is a student organization that strives to increase career, mentoring, and networking opportunities for all women at SMU Dedman School of Law. For more information on the organization or its activities, please join the Women in Law page. Practice Area Association for Public Interest Law The Association for Public Interest Law (APIL) at SMU Dedman School of Law - Helps raise awareness of public sector jobs through job fairs and speaking events; - Helps students explore how attorneys address social issues such as domestic violence, child abuse, and discrimination; and - Organizes a silent auction to raise money to provide summer stipends for outstanding law students who have secured volunteer internship placement in public interest organizations. For more information about the organization and its activities, please join the the APIL page. Association of International Petroleum Negotiators The Association of International Petroleum Negotiators is an independent not-for-profit professional membership association that supports international energy negotiators around the world and enhances their effectiveness and professionalism in the international energy community. For more information about the organization and its activities, please join the the AIPN page. Board of Advocates The Board of Advocates (BOA) exists to preserve, nurture, and promote a culture of oral and written advocacy at the SMU Dedman School of Law. It accomplishes this by running on-campus competitions for BOA members and non-members, by supporting teams competing in off-campus competitions, and by facilitating student events, talks, and other learning opportunities. The BOA office is located at room 24B in the lower level of Storey Hall. For more information about the organization and its activities, please join the BOA page. Corporate Law Association The Corporate Law Association (CLA) seeks to further the individual welfare of its members, to foster education and research in the fields of law and commerce, and to educate the student body to appreciate the integration of law and commerce. Throughout the school year, the CLA hosts a variety of events to give students insight into current trends and issues facing corporate lawyers. Additionally, the CLA aims to facilitate networking in an effort to create relationships that will allow students to connect with corporate law practitioners. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Corporate Law Association page. Criminal Law Society The SMU Criminal Law Society's purpose is to promote all things criminal law. We are focused on providing our members with opportunities to learn about the several specialties within the criminal law umbrella. We hope to foster connections between our members and current prosecutors, defense attorneys, and appellate attorneys. Additionally, we seek to provide unique opportunities to see other aspects of the criminal justice system, such as touring local jails to gain a perspective of what criminal defendants face when navigating the system. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the SMU Criminal Law Society page. Disability Law Association For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Disability Law Association page. Energy Law Association The Energy Law Association's (ELA) objectives are to raise awareness of energy related legal issues; to generate student interest in energy law, to facilitate an ongoing dialogue regarding energy law and related legal issues; and to embrace the educational opportunities of law students interested in energy law. ELA meets these objectives through meetings, speakers, and mentoring. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the SMU Energy Law Association page. Environmental Law Society The Environmental Law Society gives students interested in environmental law a means to meet people working in the area of environmental law while learning more about the career options available in the field. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Environmental Law Society page. Family Law Association The Family Law Association works to bring together students who are interested in learning about the field of Family Law. FLA sponsors speakers and events to promote awareness of family law issues and career opportunities, and serves as a source of family law information to both the law school and the local community. In addition, FLA works to promote interaction with the Dallas Bar Association Family Law section to provide networking and mentoring opportunities for students interested in Family Law. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Family Law Society page. Health Law Association The objectives of the Health Law Association (HLA) are to raise awareness of health related legal issues; to generate student interest in health law, to facilitate an ongoing dialogue regarding health law and related legal issues; and to embrace the educational opportunities of law students interested in health law. HLA meets these objectives through meetings, speakers, and mentoring. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Health Law Association page. Immigration Law Student Association The mission of the organization shall be to promote awareness of immigration law and the careers therein by bringing professionals from government, public interest, and private immigration practices to the law school. The Organization wishes to encourage greater student involvement with respect to immigration issues through various edification efforts and community outreach initiatives and will facilitate access to volunteer/job opportunities. Most importantly, the association shall serve as a space where law students can openly discuss the legal and political landscape. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Immigration Law Student Association page. Intellectual Property Organization The Intellectual Property Organization is one of the most active interest based organizations of Dedman School of Law. Meetings are frequently held to cover various aspects of Intellectual Property including Copyright, Trademark, Tradeservice, and Patent Law. IPO also hosts numerous speaker events to discuss topics such as the practical business application of IP law and how to prepare for the the Patent Bar. IPO also serves as a career base for students interested in IP law as we are the first to hear about job, moot court and out-of-school networking opportunities specifically designed for students interested in IP. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Intellectual Property Organization page. International Law Society The International Law Society aims to connect law students to the international law network, to bring awareness to the issues facing the modern international law practice, and to educate our members about the various facets of practice in international law. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the International Law Society page. JD/MBA Society The JD/MBA Society exists to improve the experience of JD/MBA students at Southern Methodist University. The Society facilitates communication and mentorship among and between alumni, current students, and prospective students of the dual law and business programs. In addition, the Society works on behalf of JD/MBA students to ensure that they have access to the resources necessary to continue SMU’s trend of producing leaders at the intersection of law and business. For more information, please join the JD/MBA Society page. Labor and Employment Law Students Association The Labor & Employment Law Association is an organization dedicated to preparing students for a well-connected career in labor & employment law. This is accomplished by putting students in contact with attorneys in all areas of labor & employment; introducing students to alternative careers in the field; and exploring the social issues that are essential for a successful practice. We aim to create a well-prepared and connected group that extends outside the walls of SMU. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Labor & Employment Association page. Real Estate Law Association The Real Estate Law Association serves the unique interests of law students interested in pursing a career in real estate through connecting law students to the larger real estate legal community. We invite real estate practitioners in the fields of law and finance to speak at workshops and seminars at the law school. We encourage networking in the real estate community by keeping students updated on DFW real estate events and organization membership opportunities. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Real Estate Law Association page. Sports and Entertainment Law Association The Sports and Entertainment Law Association (SELA) is a student run organization that facilitates various sports and entertainment law related events for educational and networking purposes. We bring in guest lecturers from major sports and entertainment firms in the DFW metroplex to give lunch talks. We collaborate with the Dallas Association of Young Lawyers and the Dallas Bar Association to organize workshops and outings. We bring in speakers from major sports law institutes and ABA accredited law schools. Our primary goal is to assist aspiring sports and entertainment attorneys in making the necessary connections to facilitate a future in sports and entertainment law. Our secondary goal is to educate law students about current trends in the sports and entertainment legal market. Additionally, our organization seeks to provide public service to the community through volunteer activities and donations. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the SMU Sports and Entertainment Law Association page. Student Animal Legal Defense Fund For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Student Animal Legal Defense Fund page. Tax Law Society The Tax Law Society (TLS) seeks to bring together members of the SMU Law community who are interested in tax law. TLS organizes events—aimed at strengthening students' understanding of tax law— where individuals from the policy world, academia, and the private sector can share their views on current tax law issues. Additionally, the organization helps students learn about the practice of tax law by connecting students with local tax attorneys and promoting awareness of professional tax law opportunities in the Dallas community. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Tax Law Society page. Professional Federal Bar Association - Law Student Division Students, legal interns, and recent graduates now have the extraordinary opportunity to participate in virtual panel presentations hosted by various Federal Bar Association leaders, federal agencies, and other notable speakers. The panel presentations will allow students and interns to learn directly from practitioners about career development, missions and operations, enrichment and employment opportunities, and more! For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Federal Bar Association -Law Student Division page. Phi Alpha Delta Legal Fraternity The purpose of Phi Alpha Delta (PAD) is to form a strong bond uniting students and teachers of the law with members of the Bench and Bar in a fraternal fellowship designed to advance the ideals of liberty and equal justice under law; to stimulate excellence in scholarship; to inspire the virtues of compassion and courage; to foster integrity and professional competence; to promote the welfare of its members; and to encourage their moral, intellectual, and cultural advancement; so that each member may enjoy a lifetime of honorable professional and public service. PAD is the largest law fraternity in the county and is a great organization from which to begin your legal career. This year we are planning a number of social events and speaker conferences that are a great way to meet other law students and have some fun. PAD will be accepting new members at the beginning of the semester and will also be hosting a welcome back happy hour where new or prospective members can meet PAD's returning students. We will be sending out more information about recruiting and events during the first few weeks of school. We look forward to meeting you! For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Phi Alpha Delta page. Phi Delta Phi Legal Fraternity Phi Delta Phi (PDP) is SMU Dedman School of Law's only Legal Honors Fraternity. During the spring semester of each school year, Phi Delta Phi invites the top 33% of the class to become initiated. PDP is an International Legal Fraternity that was established in 1869, and it is now the world's largest legal fraternity. Please note that to become a member of PDP, you may not be a member of any other legal fraternity. The most notable activity of PDP is the Teddy Bear Immunity toy drive and fundraiser, in which PDP collects teddy bears, or alternatively $5 donations, from SMU law students. In exchange for their donations, the students receive immunity from getting called on in their classes, and the proceeds are used to give teddy bears to children for comfort during times of sickness and tragedy. For more information on Phi Delta Phi, please see the website at http://www.phideltaphi.org/ For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Phi Delta Phi page. State Bar of Texas Law Student Division One of our priorities at the State Bar of Texas is to enhance law students' participation in the administration of justice, professional responsibility, and public service. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the State Bar of Texas Law Student Division page. Texas Trial Lawyers Association The Texas Trial Lawyers Association was founded in 1949 with a simple mission to bring trial lawyers together in a joint effort to promote justice for Texas families. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the TTLA page. Religious Christian Legal Society The Christian Legal Society (CLS) seeks to provide students with community and fellowship within the law school by organizing speakers, bible studies, service events, and other programs. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Christian Legal Society page. J. Reuben Clark Society We affirm the strength brought to the law by a lawyer's personal religious conviction. We strive through public service and professional excellence to promote fairness and virtue founded upon the rule of law. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the J. Reuben Clark Society page. Jewish Law Students Association The Jewish Law Students Association (JLSA) is a cultural, social, and educational organization that reflects the varied interests of the Jewish student community of SMU Dedman School of Law. We open our group to anyone and host Shabbat dinners, events on holidays, doing our best to unite a strong Jewish community on and off campus. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Jewish Law Student Association page. Muslim Law Students Association The SMU Muslim Law Students Association is a student-run organization that serves the unique interests and needs of Muslim law students through community-building, increased awareness of particular issues that impact Muslims, and through collaborations with other organizations dedicated to meaningful discourse. We will have educational and social events throughout the semester. Everyone is welcome! For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the MLSA page. Special Interest American Constitution Society The mission of the American Constitution Society is to harness the values of compassion and respect for each individual and to re-incorporate them into American law and politics in order to build a stronger and more decent national community. We seek to restore the fundamental principles of respect for human dignity, protection of individual rights and liberties, genuine equality, and access to justice to their rightful – and traditionally central – place in American law. For more information about the organization and its activities, please join the the American Constitution Society page. Association of Law and Politics The Association of Law & Politics (ALP) serves as a non-partisan student organization to promote political awareness and involvement at Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law. The Goals of ALP include: facilitating non-partisan dialogue on political issues; raising awareness of political issues among law students; encouraging current and future participation in the political process and the larger civic community; the examination of political issues from a legal perspective; and providing information related to careers in political advocacy and public policy. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Association of Law & Politics page. Federalist Society The Federalist Society for Law and Public Policy Studies is a group of conservative and libertarian lawyers and law students founded on the principles that the state exists to preserve freedom, that the separation of governmental powers is central to our Constitution, and that it is emphatically the province and duty of the judiciary to say what the law is, not what the law should be. The SMU Federalist Society seeks to promote awareness and foster fair and open debate about these principles in the SMU Law School community and beyond. Every year, we host scholars, judges, and practitioners to debate and discuss a range of law and policy topics. Membership is open to all students. The Federalist Society is about ideas. We do not lobby for legislation, take policy positions, or endorse candidates for public office. Our members hold diverse and often conflicting views on a broad range of issues. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Federalist Society page. If/When/How: Lawyering for Reproductive Justice If/When/How: Lawyering for Reproductive Justice is a nationwide network of lawyers, law students, legal professionals, and movement organizers who are working to make reproductive freedom a reality for all! We strive to transform the law and policy landscape through advocacy, support, and organizing so all people have the power to determine if, when, and how to define, create, and sustain families with dignity as well as to actualize sexual and reproductive well-being on their own terms. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the If/When/How: Lawyering for Reproductive Justice page. Law Students for Life Law Students for Life engages students in conversation about how to promote and support life at all stages. Law Students for Life is open to all law students willing to have honest and open dialogue. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join Law Students for Life page. Second Amendment Foundation The Second Amendment Foundation (SAF) is dedicated to promoting a better understanding about our Constitutional heritage to privately own and possess firearms. To that end, the SAF carries on many educational and legal action programs designed to better inform the public about the gun control debate. For more information on the organization or its activities, please join the Second Amendment Foundation page. Law Review International Law Review Association The International Law Review Association members collectively edit and publish two American Bar Association publications, The International Lawyer and The Year in Review, in addition to individually writing two academic pieces on international law, a case note and a comment. Please join the International Law Review Association page. Science and Technology Law Review SMU Science & Technology Law Review (STLR) explores the intersection of science, technology, and the law. Because scientific and technological advances impact nearly every industry and field of law, our authors have the creative freedom to address topics ranging from sports media to state surveillance, as well as more traditional topics such as ecommerce, medicine, and intellectual property. STLR is proud to be at the forefront of an increasingly important conversation about the legal implications of our modern world. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the SMU Science & Technology Law Review page. SMU Law Review Association The SMU Law Review Association (SMULRA) is a student-run organization responsible for publishing the SMU Law Review, the Journal of Air Law and Commerce, the SMU Annual Texas Survey, and the SMU Law Review Forum. The SMU Law Review is the flagship legal journal at SMU. The journal typically publishes four issues annually focusing on a broad array of legal topics. The Journal of Air Law and Commerce is the preeminent journal in the field of aviation law and even ventures into the realm of aviation business. The SMU Annual Texas Survey focuses on recent evolutions in the State’s jurisprudence. The Forum was established in 2019 as a counterpart to the print SMU Law Review, and specializes in short-form, timely articles that are reviewed and published on an accelerated schedule. The student-members of the SMULRA participate in publishing each journal by soliciting submissions, selecting articles for publication, editing the articles, and distributing the completed journals to subscribers. SMULRA also organizes and hosts two annual symposia: the Corporate Counsel Symposium and the Air Law Symposium. Students participate in the symposia by recruiting speakers, advertising and marketing the event, organizing Continuing Legal Education accreditation in all fifty states, running the pre- and post-event conferences, and overseeing the actual symposia. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the SMU Law Review Association page. Alumni Aggie Mustang Law Society The Aggie Mustang Law Society seeks to assist those law students who have obtained a degree from Texas A&M and/or have some Aggie connection and wish to realize the benefits of being plugged into the Aggie Network. To that end, the organization invites Aggie attorneys to speak at its meetings, often in a more informal setting where students can ask all types of questions. Aggie Law Students has organized happy hours to gather and watch Texas A&M athletics BTHO their SEC opponents. In addition, Aggie Law Students provides a connection to the organization's professional counterpart, the Texas Aggie Bar Association. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Aggie Mustang Law Society page. Baylor Law Student Association The Baylor Law Student Association aims to connect fellow Baylor Bears at SMU Dedman School of Law with other law students, attorneys, and alumni in the DFW area. Bears are always looking to "fling their green and gold afar" and we want to continue that tradition into our legal careers. Watch parties for games and a networking base create a good chance for Bears to meet friends, old and new, and create new connections while at SMU. SIC'EM Bears! For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Baylor Law Student Association page. Horned Frog Legal Society The intent of the Horned Frog Legal Society (HFLS) is to provide a space for current and past students at the SMU Dedman School of Law to come together over their common enthusiasm for the TCU Horned Frogs. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Horned Frog Legal Society page. Longhorn Bar Association The Longhorn Bar Association serves the interests and needs of SMU Dedman School of Law students who are also alumni of The University of Texas at Austin or who are Longhorns at heart. The Goals of LBA include: Connecting SMU law students and UT alums to the legal community and providing a common/communal network for UT alums at SMU Dedman School of Law. The Objectives of LBA include strengthening the UT-SMU network in the legal environment in Texas and organizing UT athletic game watching festivities for group members. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Longhorn Bar Association page. Red Raider Law Society For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Red Raider Law Society page. Bar Review or Legal Research BARBRI Bar Review The BARBRI Group companies meet the legal education needs of law students and attorneys throughout their careers. At the core of The BARBRI Group Companies is BARBRI Bar Review, which has helped more than 1.3 million lawyers around the world pass a U.S. bar exam. Innovative testing and learning technologies combined with years of experience training lawyers around the world make BARBRI the best partner when you decide to pass any U.S. state bar exam. For over 50 years BARBRI has become synonymous with bar prep success. The BARBRI Bar Review course works. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the BARBRI page. LEXIS/Nexis Act as liaison between LexisNexis and SMU students, student groups, faculty, administrators and staff to generate awareness, foster education and drive usage of Lexis Advance. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the LexisNexis page. Themis Bar Review Themis Bar Review provides exceptional bar preparation courses to exam takers in 44 jurisdictions utilizing innovative study tools and industry leading study strategies. Themis additionally provides free programs for law students including Law School Essentials (First Year and Upper Level) and a comprehensive MPRE Review. This organization has Themis sponsored resources, located in the Pit of Underwood Library. For more information on the organization and its activities, please join the Themis Bar Review page. Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Costs and Financial Aid Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram