Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home Programs : Undergraduate Informatics Program Undergraduate Informatics Program alt="An information ball above hands" Informatics Solve complex challenges by leveraging data insights and information technology from a user-centered perspective. Request Information Shape the Future of Information and Technology with a Bachelor's Degree in Informatics! Informatics students apply human-centered values while leveraging insights from data and information technology to solve problems. Learn to extract meaning from data, design effective information experiences, and evaluate the impacts of new technologies on individuals, organizations, and society! What is Informatics? The field of Informatics explores the intersection of people, information, and technology. It’s the study, design, and application of computer and information technology from a user-centered perspective. Why Study Informatics? Bachelor's Degree Program Choose from six Informatics major concentrations: Human-Centered Data Science User Experience (UX) Design Social Justice Informatics (Fall 2022) Health Informatics (Fall 2022) Cultural Heritage Informatics (Coming Soon!) Social Informatics (Coming Soon!) Explore Informatics Major Concentrations Information and technology systems are all around us. Informatics majors learn to use data, information, and technology to solve problems and make the world a better and fairer place. Students develop real-world skills that are in high demand across almost every industry, opening the door to a world of career opportunities in fields like high-tech, education, government, business, and law. Informatics is a degree program for real world impact. Learn in-demand skills for the jobs of today and the jobs of the future. In our interdisciplinary undergraduate Informatics degree program, students will learn from world-class instructors who are experts in the field, be a part of an active and growing Informatics community on campus, and develop a versatile set of skills that are highly desirable in a variety of jobs. Admissions Learn about admissions procedures and requirements as well as explore funding options available. Apply Now Bachelor's Degree in Informatics Earn a bachelor of arts (BA) or bachelor of science in Informatics (BSI) and choose from six concentrations. Curriculum Informatics Minor Complement your major with Informatics coursework exploring the intersection of people, information, and technology. Minor Requirements Why I Chose to Study Informatics at UT "I chose UT because of Austin being an emerging city that has a lot of opportunities in the tech industry. Informatics is a very competitive program here that will open a lot of doors for me in the real world.” - Pablo Carbajo, Freshman Informatics Major (Human-Centered Data Science Concentration) View Informatics Major Concentrations Explore the Informatics Degree Program Undergraduate Admissions Informatics Degree Curriculum Informatics Honors Program Undergraduate Student Advising Upcoming Info Sessions Friday June 24 Prospective Student Online Information Session 1 to 2 p.m. Zoom link will be provided via email Join the iSchool Undergraduate Student Services to learn more about the new Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Arts major in Informatics. Event Details Friday July 8 Prospective Student Online Information Session 1 to 2 p.m. Zoom link will be provided via email Join the iSchool Undergraduate Student Services to learn more about the new Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Arts major in Informatics. Event Details Friday Aug. 12 Prospective Student Online Information Session 1 to 2 p.m. Zoom link will be provided via email Join the iSchool Undergraduate Student Services to learn more about the new Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Arts major in Informatics. Event Details UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022