Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Brown University Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Search Brown University Home About History People Leadership BRDD Peer Advisors Student Demographics Visit Academics Advising BRDD Peer Advisors Five-Year Planning BRDD Canvas Page Current Student Degree Combinations Capstones New Courses 2021-2022 BRDD Calendar (PDF) Student Resources Five-Year Planning International Students BRDD Canvas Page 2021-2022 BRDD Academic Calendar Student Life Housing and Dining New Students Orientation Year 2 Orientation Admissions Tuition & Aid Apply FAQs Visit Alumni Alumni Newsletter News and Events Annual Exhibition Events and Programs Home About History People Student Demographics Visit Academics Student Resources Student Life Housing and Dining New Students Orientation Year 2 Orientation Admissions Alumni News and Events Search Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program New Students Congratulations to the Brown|RISD Dual Degree Class of 2026! Accepted students are encouraged to join virtual programming at Brown and RISD! Brown Accepted students are invited to join the Brown Wisr portal to join various campus communities and events and connect with current and new students along with faculty and staff at Brown. Please log into this portal for the most up-to-date information and events. RISD Accepted students and their families are invited to join the online events available on the RISD Welcome Site. A direct link to these events can be found here. Brown | RISD Dual Degree The Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program has a community on the Brown's Wisr portal! We hope you will join us there. We are posting links to various online events and discussions. If you cannot make the events, be sure to check back to watch the recordings. You can also ask questions to current BRDD students and Peer Advisors through this portal. Student Life Housing and Dining New Students Orientation Year 2 Orientation New Students Resources Menu New Student Checklist RISD Orientation RISD New Student Portal RISD Housing RISD Student Life Portal RISD Student Planning Brown Orientation Brown Banner (Self-Service) Courses at Brown ([email protected]) Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Box 1828 Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center, Suite 228 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9836 Fax: 401-863-1961 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top