Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Interdisciplinary Health Communication Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Interdisciplinary Health Communication Certificate (Graduate) Request More Info Interdisciplinary Health Communication Certificate (Graduate) Accreditation Admissions Required Courses Interdisciplinary Health Communication Graduate Certificate Learn to critically evaluate public health problems with the Graduate Certificate in Interdisciplinary Health Communication in Temple’s College of Public Health and Klein College of Media and Communication. Students in this 12-credit program form a deep understanding of issues that impact public health and study how to address them using health communication methods, concepts and theories. This graduate certificate is tailored to current clinicians, public health practitioners, and researchers. It also benefits communication and media professionals interested in expanding their skills in health communication to address public health priority problems, as well as social change and development practitioners involved in community-centered public health initiatives. Addressing public health priority issues requires a solid foundation in program planning, evaluation, research methods, and effective and responsible communication strategies. With these skills, graduates can enhance the quality of patient care and improve healthcare decision-making; facilitate the spread of information about health risks; improve underserved populations’ access to services and navigation of healthcare systems; influence adoption of healthier lifestyles in populations with elevated risk of chronic disease; and use knowledge of media and the intended effects on audiences to effectively communicate health information. You’ll gain knowledge about the breadth of issues health communication practitioners and researchers often encounter—from medical breakthroughs and the development of new products to government policies and public health challenges. Through the certificate program, you’ll also learn to communicate the results of lessons learned in public health interventions; describe the scope of public health problems and degree of risk in a target population; design and evaluate public health or health communication interventions; and identify key determinants of public health problems. What sets apart our Interdisciplinary Health Communication Graduate Certificate? A transdisciplinary training program. This certificate provides an innovative curriculum for students and professionals interested in more comprehensive training in health communication. It includes courses from several Temple degree programs and combines theory and practice to provide a well-rounded and unique learning experience. A diverse and experienced faculty. Our faculty have training and expertise across a dozen public health- and media-related disciplines, including advertising, communication, ecology, health communication, health psychology, health education and health promotion research, media studies, public health program planning and evaluation, and public relations. A springboard for multiple graduate degrees. The certificate is ideal for existing graduate students enrolled in public health-related graduate and doctoral programs, as well as Klein’s Media and Communication Sciences PhD and Communication for Development and Social Change MS programs. Program Format & Curriculum The admissions process you'll follow depends on if you are applying as a matriculated or non-matriculated graduate student. Please be sure to carefully review the admissions information for this certificate program. All classes are held on Temple’s Main Campus, and the 12-credit certificate can be completed in two to four semesters. Students may enter the certificate program in any semester and can complete the courses in any order, depending on course availability and prerequisites. Some of the courses in the certificate program include the following. Communication for Social Change Project Design Health Communication Public Information Campaigns See the full list of program courses. Careers in Health Communication There is a rapidly growing demand for public health professionals who have completed advanced coursework and can demonstrate working knowledge of health communication technologies and methods. Career fields that are well suited for graduates who have advanced training in health communication include healthcare administration; healthcare continuing education and training; health education in advertising, clinics, commercial marketing, hospice care, hospitals, rehabilitation and public relations; and local, state, federal and international public health agencies and community health organizations. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors All students (non-matriculated and Temple graduate students in programs) receive basic advising regarding course sequencing and schedules of courses in the certificate from the CPH/SBS advising infrastructure. If you have questions about the certificate program, contact the program director. Melody Slashinski is the program director. Phone: 215-204-7535 Email: melody.slashinski@temple.edu HP-IHC-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Interdisciplinary Health Communication Certificate (Graduate) Accreditation Admissions Required Courses Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Request More Info