Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Loan Office Repay your Loans Repay Your Federal Direct Loans Loan Office Repay Your Federal Direct Loans Direct Subsidized, Unsubsidized & PLUS Loans Where Do I Repay My Loans? Direct Subsidized, Unsubsidized, and PLUS Loans are repaid to a federal loan servicer. A servicer is the agency or organization responsible for billing, collection and management of loan repayment, and deferment/forbearance processing. You will send loan payments directly to your servicer(s).Your servicer(s) will send you information about your loans by mail and/or email - Be sure to open and read it! It is your responsibility to notify your servicer(s) directly any time your phone number, email address, or mailing address information changes. There are several agencies that service federal loans. The Department of Education determines which agency will service your loans. If you do not know which agency services your loans, visit NSLDS to view your loan details and obtain your loan servicer contact information. Once you identify your loan servicer, you can set up online account access, select your chosen repayment plan, set up automatic payments, and more. Learn more about federal loan servicers and view their contact information. Repayment Plans Direct Loans offer a variety of repayment plans designed to fit different needs and income levels. The amount you pay and the length of time to repay your loans will vary depending on the repayment plan you choose. Standard: Fixed monthly payments of at least $50 over a max 10 yr period. Extended: Fixed monthly payments of at least $50 over a period of 12 to 30 years. Graduated: Monthly payments increase every two years over a period of 12 to 30 years. Must have more than $30,000 outstanding to qualify. Income-driven: There are several plans that are based on your annual income. The amount is recalculated annually and income documentation must be provided to your federal loan servicer every year. Use the federal Loan Simulator to get estimated monthly payment amounts for each repayment plan. Home About Before You Borrow Leaving Brown & Exit Counseling Repay your Loans Grace Period Repay Your Federal Direct Loans Repay Your Federal Perkins and Brown University Institutional Loans Understanding Interest Loan Consolidation Avoiding Default Deferment & Forbearance Cancellation & Forgiveness Tax Information Medical School Loan Borrowers 1098-E Student Loan Interest - Tax Information Employee Programs News Code of Conduct Print this Page Share this Page Loan Office Brown University Box 1950 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3296 Fax 401-863-7518 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Bursar's Office Cashier's Office Financial Services Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Medical