columbia_noon Apply Apply Menu Directory Search The School Dean’s Letter Faculty Administration News Events Student Work Media Archive Alumni Campaign Visit Contact Programs Architecture Master of Architecture M.S. Advanced Architectural Design M.S. Computational Design Practices M.S. Critical, Curatorial & Conceptual Practices Ph.D. Architecture New York/Paris Intro to Architecture Urbanism M.S. Architecture and Urban Design M.S. Urban Planning Ph.D. Urban Planning Preservation M.S. Historic Preservation Ph.D. Historic Preservation Real Estate M.S. Real Estate Development Research Centers Labs Incubator Initiatives Exhibitions Publications Resources Academic Calendar Courses Faculty Resources Hybrid Pedagogy Guide Student Resources Policies & Resources Career Services COVID-19 Resources Student Organizations Facilities Avery Library Arthur Ross Architecture Gallery Making Studio Output Shop Preservation Technology Lab Admissions Thinking About Applying Application Process After You’re Admitted Tuition & Aid FAQ Give Apply A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z # A AIA CES Credits Lyla Catellier directory_staff Created with Sketch. /aiacescredits link_arrow Created with Sketch. AV Office 321M Fayerweather Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Christopher Day directory_staff Created with Sketch. /audio-video-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Abstract Publication 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Shannon Werle directory_staff Created with Sketch. /abstract link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Affairs 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /academic-affair… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Calendar, Columbia University http://registrar… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Calendar, GSAPP /academic-calend… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Admissions Office 407 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Steffen Boddeker directory_staff Created with Sketch. /admissions link_arrow Created with Sketch. Advanced Standing Waiver Form Must be printed and returned to 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://d37vpt3x… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Alumni Board /alumni/board link_arrow Created with Sketch. Alumni Office 405 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Leah Cohen, Jillian Barsalou Kincaid, Esther Turay, Leslie Kuo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /alumni/contact link_arrow Created with Sketch. Anti-Racism Curriculum Development Award /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Architecture Studio Lottery /architecture-st… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Assistantships /assistantships link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Library 300 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. http://library.c… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Review http://averyrevi… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Shorts http://www.avery… link_arrow Created with Sketch. B Black Student Alliance at Columbia GSAPP /bsa link_arrow Created with Sketch. Building Science & Technology Waivers /building-tech-w… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Bulletin Archive /bulletin-archiv… link_arrow Created with Sketch. C COVID-19 FAQ /covid-19-faq link_arrow Created with Sketch. COVID-19 Resources /covid-19-resour… link_arrow Created with Sketch. COVID-19 Resources for the Columbia Community https://covid19.… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Career Services 407 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /career-services… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Climate /climate link_arrow Created with Sketch. Columbia Books on Architecture and the City Isabelle Kirkham-Lewitt, Joanna Kloppenburg directory_staff Created with Sketch. /books link_arrow Created with Sketch. Commencement /commencement link_arrow Created with Sketch. Communications Office 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Steffen Boddeker, Shannon Werle, Lucy Krebsbach directory_staff Created with Sketch. /communications-… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Conversations podcast /conversations link_arrow Created with Sketch. Counseling and Psychological Services http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Courses /courses link_arrow Created with Sketch. Credit Transfer /credit-transfer… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Cross Registration /cross-registrat… link_arrow Created with Sketch. D Data & Design /data-design link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Letter /deans-letter link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Office 402 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Nicholas Roberts directory_staff Created with Sketch. /deans-office link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Unlearning Whiteness Research Award /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Development Office 404 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Leah Cohen, Jillian Barsalou Kincaid, Esther Turay, Leslie Kuo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /development-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Directory of Classes (All Columbia University) http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Disability Services http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dodge Fitness Center 3030 Broadway Dodge directory_address Created with Sketch. https://perec.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dual Degree Program Requirements /dual-degree-req… link_arrow Created with Sketch. E End of Year Show /eoys link_arrow Created with Sketch. Equity /equity link_arrow Created with Sketch. Events Office 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Lyla Catellier directory_staff Created with Sketch. /events-office link_arrow Created with Sketch. Exhibitions Office Irene Sunwoo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /exhibitions-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. External Funding Sources /admissions/tuit… link_arrow Created with Sketch. F Faculty /faculty link_arrow Created with Sketch. Faculty Conduct /faculty-conduct… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Feedback /feedback link_arrow Created with Sketch. Finance Office 406 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /finance-adminis… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Fitch Colloquium /fitch link_arrow Created with Sketch. Future Anterior Jorge Otero-Pailos directory_staff Created with Sketch. /future-anterior… link_arrow Created with Sketch. G GIS /gis link_arrow Created with Sketch. GIS Tutorials /gis/tutorials link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPP Community Fellowship Program /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPP Emergency Fund /gsapp-emergency… link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPPXx+ /gsappxxplus link_arrow Created with Sketch. Grades /grades link_arrow Created with Sketch. Graduation /commencement link_arrow Created with Sketch. Graphics Project Yoonjai Choi directory_staff Created with Sketch. /graphics-projec… link_arrow Created with Sketch. H HEERF Program /heerf-program link_arrow Created with Sketch. Historic Preservation Newsletter http://us2.campa… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Honor System /honor-system link_arrow Created with Sketch. Human Resources /finance-human-r… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Hybrid Pedagogy Resources /hybrid-pedagogy… link_arrow Created with Sketch. I Identity /identity link_arrow Created with Sketch. Incubator Prize David Benjamin directory_staff Created with Sketch. /research/gsapp-… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology Helpdesk Ticket, GSAPP https://bit.ly/2… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology Office, GSAPP Ben Goldie directory_staff Created with Sketch. /it-support link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology, Columbia University (CUIT) http://cuit.colu… link_arrow Created with Sketch. International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. J Job Opportunities at Columbia http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. K Kenneth Frampton Endowed Lecture Series /frampton-lectur… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Kinne Prize /kinne link_arrow Created with Sketch. L LatinGSAPP /latingsapp link_arrow Created with Sketch. Leave of Absence Policy /leave-of-absenc… link_arrow Created with Sketch. M Making Studio Schermerhorn Extension Floor 1 directory_address Created with Sketch. Joshua Jordan directory_staff Created with Sketch. https://www.arch… link_arrow Created with Sketch. N News and Press Releases /news link_arrow Created with Sketch. Newsletter Sign Up https://columbia… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy /non-discriminat… link_arrow Created with Sketch. O Onera Prize for Historic Preservation /onera-prize link_arrow Created with Sketch. Online Admissions Application GSAPP Admissions 407 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://apply.gs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Output Shop 116 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Carlito Bayne, Sherly Orilas directory_staff Created with Sketch. /output-shop link_arrow Created with Sketch. Ownership of Student Work Policy /ownership-of-wo… link_arrow Created with Sketch. P Paris Prize, Buell Center /buell-paris-pri… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Paul S. Byard Memorial Lecture Series /byard-lectures link_arrow Created with Sketch. Percival & Naomi Goodman Fellowship /goodman-fellows… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Plagiarism Policy /plagiarism-poli… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Policies & Resources /policies-resour… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Press Releases /news link_arrow Created with Sketch. Publications Office 407 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Isabelle Kirkham-Lewitt, Joanna Kloppenburg directory_staff Created with Sketch. /books link_arrow Created with Sketch. Q QSAPP /qsapp link_arrow Created with Sketch. R Registration /registration link_arrow Created with Sketch. Registration: Add / Drop Form https://apply.gs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Room Reservations /room-reservatio… link_arrow Created with Sketch. S STEM Designation /stem link_arrow Created with Sketch. Satisfactory Academic Progress /satisfactory-ac… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Skill Trails Dan Taeyoung directory_staff Created with Sketch. https://skilltra… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Affairs 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. JD Stogdill directory_staff Created with Sketch. /student-affairs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Awards /student-awards link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Conduct /student-conduct… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Council (All Programs) /student-council… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Financial Services http://sfs.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Health Services at Columbia http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Organization Handbook /books/reader/59… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Organizations /student-organiz… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Services Center 205 Kent Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://ssc.colu… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Services Online (SSOL) https://ssol.col… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Work Online /student-work link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio Culture Policy /architecture-st… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio Procedures /studio-procedur… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio-X Global Network /studio-x link_arrow Created with Sketch. Summer Workshops /summer-workshop… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Support GSAPP https://arch.giv… link_arrow Created with Sketch. T Travel Guide /finance-adminis… link_arrow Created with Sketch. U URBAN Magazine /urban-mag link_arrow Created with Sketch. University Apartment Housing (UAH) http://facilitie… link_arrow Created with Sketch. University Resources /university-reso… link_arrow Created with Sketch. V Virtual Studios /hybrid-pedagogy… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Visual Resources Collection (VRC) Fayerweather 204 directory_address Created with Sketch. /vrc link_arrow Created with Sketch. W Website Steffen Boddeker, Shannon Werle directory_staff Created with Sketch. /website-colopho… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Links for... COVID-19 Resources Hybrid Pedagogy Guide GSAPP COVID-19 Resources Columbia COVID-19 Resources Student Health Services Students & Faculty Student Resources Faculty Resources Course Listing 2022 Commencement Prospective students 2021 Virtual Open House Thinking about Applying Compare Programs Student Work Columbia University Columbia Student Resources University Directory Office of University Life Columbia Libraries Close This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice Group 6 Climate Events Pedagogy Research Publications & Exhibitions Climate change is a global reality. Increasingly volatile environmental conditions—from rising sea levels and ocean acidification, to extreme temperatures, droughts, and storms—are affecting populations worldwide, with devastating impacts on the livelihoods and welfare of vulnerable communities. Cumulative resource extraction and exploitation have led to an intertwined social and ecological crisis that has depleted local economies, imperiled coastal settlements, and forced migration as a means of survival. GSAPP recognizes climate change as one of the most profound and urgent challenges facing the wellbeing of our societies and planet, and is committed to mobilizing the disciplines of the built environment to respond with expanded knowledge, sustainable methods, and moral responsibility. This webpage features a collection of resources on GSAPP’s ongoing investigation of Climate. This list will continue to be updated. If you have suggestions or comments, please contact communications@arch.columbia.edu. Events Listed below are selected GSAPP events presented by the Office of the Dean since Fall 2014. Mon, Oct 11, 2021 6:30pm Boonserm Premthada Lecture New York, Virtual Thu, Oct 14, 2021 6:30pm Overheated New York, Virtual Fri, May 7, 2021 9am After Concrete: Redefining Materials and Energy in the Anthropocene Conference Virtual Mon, Mar 8, 2021 6:30pm Narrative Change for the Green New Deal Conference Virtual Fri, Nov 20, 2020 1pm Climate Justice and the City Conference Virtual Mon, Sep 28, 2020 6pm Yasmeen Lari Lecture Virtual Fri, Feb 22, 2019 1pm Climate Change at the Building Scale Pt. 1 Conference New York Fri, Apr 5, 2019 1pm Climate Change at the Building Scale Pt. 2 Conference New York Fri, Oct 19, 2018 1pm It’s Simple: Histories of Architecture and/for the Environment Buell Center New York Fri, Feb 19, 2016 10am Resilience by Design University Conference New York Thu, Dec 10, 2015 9am Climate Change and the Scales of Environment Conference New York 1 / 8 CONVERSATIONS Tidal Communities: The Experience of Underserved and Indigenous Rural Communities Along Changing Coastlines February 26, 2021 A two-part panel discussion among Aunnauruq Twyla Thurmond, Maurice Bailey, Whitney Barr, Robin Bronen, Dean Hardy, Radley Horton, Malgosia Madajewicz, Dorothy Peteet, Shavonne Smith, Annauk Denise Olin, Jazz Watts and Kate Orff, Professor and Director of GSAPP’s Urban Design Program. All We Can Save January 21, 2021 Organized by GSAPP and The Earth Institute at Columbia University, this discussion celebrates the launch of All We Can Save: Truth, Courage, and Solutions for the Climate Crisis (Penguin Random House, 2020), edited by Ayana Elizabeth Johnson and Katharine Wilkinson. A conversation among Wilkinson; Jainey Bavishi; Kate Marvel, and Kate Orff. Climate Justice and the City November 20, 2020 A workshop hosted by Erica Avrami, Reinhold Martin, Kate Orff, Thaddeus Pawlowski with active participants and guest including Jacqueline Klopp, Christian Braneon, Génesis Abreu, Sonal Jessel, Laurie Schoeman, Arturo Garcia-Costas, Radley Horton, Lisa Dale, Paul Gallay, and other leaders in climate research. The Green New Deal: Shaping a Public Imagination February 18, 2020 Kim Stanley Robinson discusses how we might shape public imaginations toward an embrace of the Green New Deal. Followed by a conversation with Kate Wagner, Maureen Raymo, and Andrew Revkin. Organized by the Temple Hoyne Buell Center for the Study of American Architecture, the Earth Institute, and the Brown Institute for Media Innovation at Columbia University. Public Works for a Green New Deal September 27, 2019 Faculty participants in the Fall 2019 Public Works curricular initiative deliver course presentations. Daniel Aldana Cohen, Hayley Richardson, and Abby Spinak give presentations on public housing, public transportation, and public electricity, respectively. Followed by a conversation moderated by Alyssa Battistoni. Co-organized with the Buell Center. Read More Offsetted: On the Rights of Trees February 22, 2019 The exhibition Offsetted, conceived and designed by Cooking Sections (Daniel Fernández Pascual and Alon Schwabe), launches a critical debate on the financialization of the environment—from the scale of a city tree to an ecological reserve—and on current forms of environmental justice. Fernández Pascual and Schwabe present their project, followed by a conversation with Mari Margil on environmental rights. Moderated by Felicity Scott. Offsetted: On the Rights of Trees was held in conjunction with the exhibition Offsetted at the Arthur Ross Architecture Gallery. Listen to Daniel Fernández Pascual and Alon Schwabes in Podcast episode #66 Unnatural Disaster: Infrastructure in Puerto Rico before, during, and after Hurricane Maria November 9, 2018 While many fields are addressing the aftermath of Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico, this event argues that a more focused, historically informed conversation on the roles of architecture, planning, and preservation in both the production and management of these ever-more-frequent emergencies—especially as they pertain to infrastructure—is urgently needed. Presentations by Ivis Garcia Zambrana, Marcelo López-Dinardi, Mark Martin Bras, Andrés Mignucci, Frances Negrón-Muntaner, and Ingrid Olivo, followed by a conversation with Hiba Bou Akar and Monxo López. Co-organized by the Buell Center. ### A Year Without a Winter September 22, 2017 This discussion centers on the GSAPP publication A Year without a Winter, which brings together science fiction, history, visual art, and exploration to reframe the relationship between climate, crisis, and creation. Contributors Dehlia Hannah, Gillen D’Arcy Wood, and Vandana Singh join the book’s editor James Graham in conversation. Organized by Columbia Books on Architecture and the City. Cooking Sections: The Empire Remains Shop April 14, 2017 The Empire Remains Shop, a public installation that opened in 2016, speculates on the possibility and implications of selling back the remains of the British Empire in London today. This event features a conversation among Cooking Sections (Daniel Fernández Pascual and Alon Schwabe), James Graham, and Jesse Connuck. Cities and Climate Action: New Orleans April 7, 2017 This event features a discussion on the critical role that cities play in driving the agenda on climate change, and the steps federal governments must take to assist cities in their efforts to respond to the vast environmental, economic, and cultural impacts. Participants include Adam Freed, Jeffrey Hebert, Kate Orff, Rodrigo Rosa, Weiping Wu, and Michael Kimmelman. New York 2140: Kim Stanley Robinson April 6, 2017 New York 2140: Kim Stanley Robinson, April 6, 2017 Presentation by Kim Stanley Robinson on the release of his latest novel, New York 2140 (Orbit, 2017) followed by a conversation with Reinhold Martin. Co-Organized by the Temple Hoyne Buell Center for the Study of American Architecture, Columbia GSAPP, and Orbit Books. Air Drifts November 29, 2016 The research project Air Drifts revisits trans-boundary air pollution to analyze how localized toxic particulates drift into new territories of global responsibility. Participants include Kadambari Baxi, Janette Kim, Meg McLagan, David Schiminovich, and Mark Wasiuta. Organized by the Buell Center. Planning for Climate Change September 24, 2014 Naomi Klein and Kate Orff are joined by Laura Kurgan for a conversation on the practical and political challenges of planning for climate change, and how to build a more equitable world in the process. Show Less Offsetted: On the Rights of Trees February 22, 2019 The exhibition Offsetted, conceived and designed by Cooking Sections (Daniel Fernández Pascual and Alon Schwabe), launches a critical debate on the financialization of the environment—from the scale of a city tree to an ecological reserve—and on current forms of environmental justice. Fernández Pascual and Schwabe present their project, followed by a conversation with Mari Margil on environmental rights. Moderated by Felicity Scott. Offsetted: On the Rights of Trees was held in conjunction with the exhibition Offsetted at the Arthur Ross Architecture Gallery. Listen to Daniel Fernández Pascual and Alon Schwabes in Podcast episode #66 Unnatural Disaster: Infrastructure in Puerto Rico before, during, and after Hurricane Maria November 9, 2018 While many fields are addressing the aftermath of Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico, this event argues that a more focused, historically informed conversation on the roles of architecture, planning, and preservation in both the production and management of these ever-more-frequent emergencies—especially as they pertain to infrastructure—is urgently needed. Presentations by Ivis Garcia Zambrana, Marcelo López-Dinardi, Mark Martin Bras, Andrés Mignucci, Frances Negrón-Muntaner, and Ingrid Olivo, followed by a conversation with Hiba Bou Akar and Monxo López. Co-organized by the Buell Center. ### A Year Without a Winter September 22, 2017 This discussion centers on the GSAPP publication A Year without a Winter, which brings together science fiction, history, visual art, and exploration to reframe the relationship between climate, crisis, and creation. Contributors Dehlia Hannah, Gillen D’Arcy Wood, and Vandana Singh join the book’s editor James Graham in conversation. Organized by Columbia Books on Architecture and the City. Cooking Sections: The Empire Remains Shop April 14, 2017 The Empire Remains Shop, a public installation that opened in 2016, speculates on the possibility and implications of selling back the remains of the British Empire in London today. This event features a conversation among Cooking Sections (Daniel Fernández Pascual and Alon Schwabe), James Graham, and Jesse Connuck. Cities and Climate Action: New Orleans April 7, 2017 This event features a discussion on the critical role that cities play in driving the agenda on climate change, and the steps federal governments must take to assist cities in their efforts to respond to the vast environmental, economic, and cultural impacts. Participants include Adam Freed, Jeffrey Hebert, Kate Orff, Rodrigo Rosa, Weiping Wu, and Michael Kimmelman. New York 2140: Kim Stanley Robinson April 6, 2017 New York 2140: Kim Stanley Robinson, April 6, 2017 Presentation by Kim Stanley Robinson on the release of his latest novel, New York 2140 (Orbit, 2017) followed by a conversation with Reinhold Martin. Co-Organized by the Temple Hoyne Buell Center for the Study of American Architecture, Columbia GSAPP, and Orbit Books. Air Drifts November 29, 2016 The research project Air Drifts revisits trans-boundary air pollution to analyze how localized toxic particulates drift into new territories of global responsibility. Participants include Kadambari Baxi, Janette Kim, Meg McLagan, David Schiminovich, and Mark Wasiuta. Organized by the Buell Center. Planning for Climate Change September 24, 2014 Naomi Klein and Kate Orff are joined by Laura Kurgan for a conversation on the practical and political challenges of planning for climate change, and how to build a more equitable world in the process. Tidal Communities February 26, 2021 Participants include Aunnauruq Twyla Thurmond, Maurice Bailey, Whitney Barr, Robin Bronen, Dean Hardy, Radley Horton, Malgosia Madajewicz, Dorothy Peteet,Shavonne Smith, Annauk Denise Olin, Jazz Watts and Kate Orff. Learn more here. Up next Tidal Communities Up next Public Works For A Green New Deal Up next Offsetted: On the Rights of Trees Up next Unnatural Disaster Up next A Year Without a Winter Up next Cooking Sections: The Empire Remains Shop Up next Cities & Climate Action Up next Drain: Planning for Climate Change LECTURES Francis Kéré February 1, 2021 Kéré is an internationally renowned Burkinabè architect, recognized for his pioneering approach to design and sustainable modes of construction. His vocation to become an architect comes from a personal commitment to serve the community he grew up in, and a belief in the transformative potential of beauty. In conversation with Amale Andraos, Dean of Columbia GSAPP. Edward Mazria January 22, 2021 Mazria is an internationally recognized architect, author, researcher, and educator. Over the past decade, his seminal research into the sustainability, resilience, energy consumption, and greenhouse gas emissions of the built environment has redefined the role of architecture, planning, design, and building, in reshaping our world. In conversation with Amale Andraos, Dean of Columbia GSAPP and Alex Halliday, Director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University. Yasmeen Lari November 6, 2019 Drawn from the vernacular heritage of Pakistan, Yasmeen Lari has specially developed low carbon and low-cost structures that can withstand earthquakes and floods, in what she calls ‘barefoot architecture’ that treads lightly on the planet. She works directly with marginalized communities by supplying the technical knowledge and training for people to take charge of their lives and build structures that are resilient to and prepared for frequent extreme weather. Richard Sennett November 6, 2019 Sennett’s talk examines how society grapples with issues related to climate change, including states of denial, climate refugees, democratic actions in response to climate change, and the balance between adaptation and mitigation. Response by Weiping Wu. Eleena Jamil October 14, 2019 Jamil speaks about how her Kuala Lumpur-based firm creates opportunities for structural and material experimentation. Highlighted projects include Shadow Garden Pavilion in Petaling Jaya, Malaysia; Bamboo Terrace Homes; and an Engineering Laboratory. Response by Hilary Sample. Listen to Eleena Jamil in Podcast episode #82 Read More Marina Tabassum The Kenneth Frampton Endowed Lecture September 23, 2019 Tabassum states that the most important elements for her Dhaka-based practice in creating architecture are place, time, and context. The lecture discusses the Independence Monument and Bait Ur Rouf Mosque in Bangladesh, and research on processes for designing and building in rural Bangladesh. Response by Kenneth Frampton. Listen to Marina Tabassum in Podcast episode #77 Lola Sheppard February 18, 2019 Sheppard, co-founder of Lateral Office, discusses the firm’s commitment to design as a research vehicle to pose and respond to complex, urgent questions in the built environment, engaging in the climate and wider context of a project—including its social, ecological, or political dimensions. Response by Andrés Jaque. Listen to Lola Sheppard in Podcast episode #65 Kongjian Yu The Kenneth Frampton Endowed Lecture October 29, 2018 Kongjian Yu delivers the lecture “Creating Deep Connections and Deep Forms,” which presents his pioneering research on “ecological security patterns” and “sponge cities.” This research has been adopted by the Chinese government as the guiding theory for national land use planning, eco-city campaigns, and urban ecological restoration. Response by Kenneth Frampton. Listen to Kongjian Yu in Podcast episode #59 David Benjamin October 22, 2018 David Benjamin introduces the work of his firm The Living. Situated at the intersection of biology, computation, and design, The Living strives for “living, breathing architecture.” Recent work includes research on mycelium and agricultural waste-based structures; embodied energy; and an “Open Source Building” at Princeton. Response by Amale Andraos. Listen to David Benjamin in Podcast episode #37 James Wines October 9, 2017 James Wines’ lecture “Arch-Art: A Conduit to Context: The Role of Buildings in Social Change” introduces a body of work that fuses art, architecture, landscape, and surrounding environmental context. Highlighted projects include Avenue Number Five Park in Seville, Spain; Ross’s Landing Park and Plaza in Chattanooga, Tennessee; and Antilia Tower in Mumbai, India. Response by Dan Wood, Andrés Jaque, and Prem Krishnamurthy. Listen to James Wines in Podcast episode #30. Anupama Kundoo November 21, 2016 Anupama Kundoo’s lecture “Building Knowledge: An Inventory of Strategies” discusses her installation at the 2016 Venice Architecture Biennale, which presented a low-cost modular home and a prefabricated toilet. Kundoo elucidates how her material research and experimentation produce an architecture with low environmental impact and sensitivity to socio-economic contexts. Response by Lise Anne Couture. Listen to Anupama Kundoo in Podcast episode #22. Fulong Wu November 14, 2016 Fulong Wu introduces his book “Planning for Growth: Urban and Regional Planning in China,” which provides an overview of the changes in China’s planning system, policy, and practices. Response by Weiping Wu Emilio Ambasz October 24, 2016 Emilio Ambasz presents several projects including Casa de Retiro Espiritual in Seville, Spain; Fukuoka Prefectural Hall in Japan; and Glory Art Museum in Hsin-Chu, Taiwan. Ambasz unpacks how his work reconciles man-made and natural structures. Response by Amale Andraos. Show Less Marina Tabassum The Kenneth Frampton Endowed Lecture September 23, 2019 Tabassum states that the most important elements for her Dhaka-based practice in creating architecture are place, time, and context. The lecture discusses the Independence Monument and Bait Ur Rouf Mosque in Bangladesh, and research on processes for designing and building in rural Bangladesh. Response by Kenneth Frampton. Listen to Marina Tabassum in Podcast episode #77 Lola Sheppard February 18, 2019 Sheppard, co-founder of Lateral Office, discusses the firm’s commitment to design as a research vehicle to pose and respond to complex, urgent questions in the built environment, engaging in the climate and wider context of a project—including its social, ecological, or political dimensions. Response by Andrés Jaque. Listen to Lola Sheppard in Podcast episode #65 Kongjian Yu The Kenneth Frampton Endowed Lecture October 29, 2018 Kongjian Yu delivers the lecture “Creating Deep Connections and Deep Forms,” which presents his pioneering research on “ecological security patterns” and “sponge cities.” This research has been adopted by the Chinese government as the guiding theory for national land use planning, eco-city campaigns, and urban ecological restoration. Response by Kenneth Frampton. Listen to Kongjian Yu in Podcast episode #59 David Benjamin October 22, 2018 David Benjamin introduces the work of his firm The Living. Situated at the intersection of biology, computation, and design, The Living strives for “living, breathing architecture.” Recent work includes research on mycelium and agricultural waste-based structures; embodied energy; and an “Open Source Building” at Princeton. Response by Amale Andraos. Listen to David Benjamin in Podcast episode #37 James Wines October 9, 2017 James Wines’ lecture “Arch-Art: A Conduit to Context: The Role of Buildings in Social Change” introduces a body of work that fuses art, architecture, landscape, and surrounding environmental context. Highlighted projects include Avenue Number Five Park in Seville, Spain; Ross’s Landing Park and Plaza in Chattanooga, Tennessee; and Antilia Tower in Mumbai, India. Response by Dan Wood, Andrés Jaque, and Prem Krishnamurthy. Listen to James Wines in Podcast episode #30. Anupama Kundoo November 21, 2016 Anupama Kundoo’s lecture “Building Knowledge: An Inventory of Strategies” discusses her installation at the 2016 Venice Architecture Biennale, which presented a low-cost modular home and a prefabricated toilet. Kundoo elucidates how her material research and experimentation produce an architecture with low environmental impact and sensitivity to socio-economic contexts. Response by Lise Anne Couture. Listen to Anupama Kundoo in Podcast episode #22. Fulong Wu November 14, 2016 Fulong Wu introduces his book “Planning for Growth: Urban and Regional Planning in China,” which provides an overview of the changes in China’s planning system, policy, and practices. Response by Weiping Wu Emilio Ambasz October 24, 2016 Emilio Ambasz presents several projects including Casa de Retiro Espiritual in Seville, Spain; Fukuoka Prefectural Hall in Japan; and Glory Art Museum in Hsin-Chu, Taiwan. Ambasz unpacks how his work reconciles man-made and natural structures. Response by Amale Andraos. Francis Kéré February 1, 2021 Learn more here. Up next Francis Kéré Up next Richard Sennett Up next Eleena Jamil Up next Marina Tabassum Up next Lola Sheppard Up next Kongjian Yu Up next David Benjamin Up next James Wines Up next Anupama Kundoo Up next Fulong Wu Up next Emilio Ambasz Pedagogy Below is a selection of recent GSAPP courses and curricular initiatives that investigate how the built environment can respond to the ongoing effects of climate change. Healthier Building Materials Catherine Murphy, Spring 2021, Architecture Climate, Technology, and Society Reinhold Martin, Spring 2021, Architecture Climate Adaptation in Cities Adam Freed, Spring 2021, Urban Planning Adaptation Technologies: Towards an Ethics of Care Jorge Otero-Pailos, Spring 2021, Historic Preservation Footprint: Carbon and Design David Benjamin, Fall 2020, All programs Man, Machine and the Industrial Landscape: Re-Imaging the Relationship Between Industrial and Public Territories Sean Gallagher, Fall 2020, Architecture Sustainable Design Davidson Norris, Fall 2020, Architecture Transformational Planning Frameworks for Equitable Climate Action Ariella Maron, Fall 2020, Urban Planning Transscalarities: The Intersectional Design of Climate Andrés Jaque, Fall 2020, Architecture Resilient Urban Systems Thaddeus Pawlowski, Fall 2020, Urban Planning Read More Advanced V Studio: A[x]*2 Kate Ascher, Christoph Kumpusch, Spring 2020, Architecture and Real Estate Development Advanced IV Studio: Forest-to-city: Architecture as Open System David Benjamin, Spring 2020, Architecture Advanced IV Studio: Fringe Timber Lindsey Wikstrom, Spring 2020, Architecture Circular Cities: A New Urban Future Malo Hutson, Spring 2020, Interdisciplinary Environmental Impact Assessment Graham Trelstad, Spring 2020, Urban Planning NYC Grey to Green Energy Transition Studio Anthony Borelli and Graham Trelstad, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Planning for Urban Energy Systems Peter Marcotullio, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Studio III: The Great Rift Valley Kate Orff (Coordinator), Lee Altman, Adriana Chavez, Dilip da Cunha, Geeta Mehta, Thaddeus Pawlowski, Julia Watson, and Fitsum Gelaye Spring 2020, Urban Design Sustainability and Preservation Erica Avrami, Spring 2020, Historic Preservation Waterfront Development in Long Island City Studio Sybil Wa and Jason Brody, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Footprint: Carbon and Design David Benjamin, Fall 2019, Building Science Technology Global Practices & Policy in Urban Risk, Resilience & Crises Ebru Gencer, Fall 2019, Urban Planning Public Works: A Green New Deal for Appalachia Kate Orff, Fall 2019, Urban Design Public Works: A Green New Deal for Appalachia Thaddeus Pawlowski, Fall 2019, Urban Planning Public Works: Advanced V Studio Being-With: Coexistence at a Planetary Scale Phu Hoang, Fall 2019, Architecture Public Works: Advanced V Studio Climate Design Corps David Benjamin, Fall 2019, Architecture Public Works: Advanced V Studio Imaginative Realism: Cli-Fi, the Sublime, and the Public Imaginary Marc Tsurumaki, Fall 2019, Architecture Public Works: Advanced V Studio Structures of Care Bryony Roberts, Fall 2019, Architecture Public Works: Advanced V Studio Transscalar Towers, The Ultra Clear-Glass Plan Andrés Jaque, Fall 2019, Architecture Public Works: Planning and the Green New Deal Ariella Maron & Douglas Woodward, Fall 2019, Urban Planning Public Works: Studio II The Climate Crisis Kaja Kühl, Fall 2019, Urban Design Sustainable Design Davidson Norris, Fall 2019, Architecture Sustainable Retrofits Michael Adlerstein, Fall 2019, Real Estate Development Toward Resilient Cities & Landscapes Kate Orff, Fall 2019, Urban Design Environmental Sustainability Stuart Brodsky, Summer 2019, Real Estate Development Show Less Advanced V Studio: A[x]*2 Kate Ascher, Christoph Kumpusch, Spring 2020, Architecture and Real Estate Development Advanced IV Studio: Forest-to-city: Architecture as Open System David Benjamin, Spring 2020, Architecture Advanced IV Studio: Fringe Timber Lindsey Wikstrom, Spring 2020, Architecture Circular Cities: A New Urban Future Malo Hutson, Spring 2020, Interdisciplinary Environmental Impact Assessment Graham Trelstad, Spring 2020, Urban Planning NYC Grey to Green Energy Transition Studio Anthony Borelli and Graham Trelstad, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Planning for Urban Energy Systems Peter Marcotullio, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Studio III: The Great Rift Valley Kate Orff (Coordinator), Lee Altman, Adriana Chavez, Dilip da Cunha, Geeta Mehta, Thaddeus Pawlowski, Julia Watson, and Fitsum Gelaye Spring 2020, Urban Design Sustainability and Preservation Erica Avrami, Spring 2020, Historic Preservation Waterfront Development in Long Island City Studio Sybil Wa and Jason Brody, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Footprint: Carbon and Design David Benjamin, Fall 2019, Building Science Technology Global Practices & Policy in Urban Risk, Resilience & Crises Ebru Gencer, Fall 2019, Urban Planning Public Works: A Green New Deal for Appalachia Kate Orff, Fall 2019, Urban Design Public Works: A Green New Deal for Appalachia Thaddeus Pawlowski, Fall 2019, Urban Planning Public Works: Advanced V Studio Being-With: Coexistence at a Planetary Scale Phu Hoang, Fall 2019, Architecture Public Works: Advanced V Studio Climate Design Corps David Benjamin, Fall 2019, Architecture Public Works: Advanced V Studio Imaginative Realism: Cli-Fi, the Sublime, and the Public Imaginary Marc Tsurumaki, Fall 2019, Architecture Public Works: Advanced V Studio Structures of Care Bryony Roberts, Fall 2019, Architecture Public Works: Advanced V Studio Transscalar Towers, The Ultra Clear-Glass Plan Andrés Jaque, Fall 2019, Architecture Public Works: Planning and the Green New Deal Ariella Maron & Douglas Woodward, Fall 2019, Urban Planning Public Works: Studio II The Climate Crisis Kaja Kühl, Fall 2019, Urban Design Sustainable Design Davidson Norris, Fall 2019, Architecture Sustainable Retrofits Michael Adlerstein, Fall 2019, Real Estate Development Toward Resilient Cities & Landscapes Kate Orff, Fall 2019, Urban Design Environmental Sustainability Stuart Brodsky, Summer 2019, Real Estate Development Research Recent and ongoing research initiatives at GSAPP are highlighted below. Learn more here. Power Buell Center Power is a project at Columbia University’s Temple Hoyne Buell Center for the Study of American Architecture connecting infrastructure, politics, and life. It challenges participants to think about how infrastructure relates to life across a series of intersecting concerns, including democratic governance and climate justice. Urban Heat & the Future of the Urban Realm CRCL In pursuit of the implementation of Resilient Tel AvivYafo, a long-term and city-wide resilience strategy, the Municipality of Tel Aviv-Yafo partnered with CRCL’s Resilience Accelerator team to advance research and project concepts that help the city adapt to climate risk from heat. 45 West 53 Street Embodied Energy Initiative The Museum of Modern Art commissioned The Embodied Energy Pilot Project at GSAPP to create a series of visualizations about embodied energy—what it is and how it relates to the Museum’s new building. Publications and Exhibitions GSAPP Publications and Exhibitions offer platforms for investigating the relationship between climate and the built environment. A selection of scholarship, new commissions, and curatorial projects is featured below. Feb 21 – Jun 8, 2019 OFFSETTED Arthur Ross Architecture Gallery A Moving Border: Alpine Cartographies of Climate Change A Year Without A Winter The Empire Remains Shop Blue Dunes: Climate Change by Design Embodied Energy and Design: Making Architecture Between Metrics and Narratives Climates: Architecture and the Planetary Imaginary Water Infrastructure: Equitable Development of Resilient Systems Oct 5 – Dec 20, 2020 A Wildness Distant Online 1 / 9 A Selection of Articles from the Avery Review Heather Davis, “To Live in Compromised Worlds: Holly Jean Buck’s After Geoengineering,” in the Avery Review 45 (February 2020). Reinhold Martin, “Sacred Ground: The Big Easy in the Big Apple,” in the Avery Review 40 (May 2019). Ivonne Santoyo-Orozco, “Potemkin Infrastructure,” in the Avery Review 40 (May 2019). Alison Brunn, “Two Islands,” in the Avery Review 41 (September 2019). Maria Alejandra Linares, “Reforming ‘Resilience,’ Erasing ‘Climate’,” in the Avery Review 43 (November 2019). Kadambari Baxi, “Notes on Kochi (Biennale) and Katowice (Climate Summit),” in the Avery Review 38 (March 2019). James Graham, “Making Coal Historical (a Road Trip),” in the Avery Review 35 (December 2018). Elsa Hoover, “The Temporary Logics of Extraction: Tracing Architecture’s (Neo)Colonial Deployment at Three Scales,” in the Avery Review 31 (April 2018). Shela Sheikh, “Translating Geontologies,” in the Avery Review 21 (January 2017). Amale Andraos, “What Does Climate Change (For Architecture)?,” in the Avery Review 16 (May 2016). Discover more highlights in the “Climates of Extraction” by the Avery Review. Also see the related thematic pages for GSAPP’s work on Equity and Data & Design. Homepage Image Credit: Studio travel to Pune, India by MSAUD students and faculty as part of the Spring 2019 Urban Design Studio III Project by Cris Liu for the Fall 2020 “Anti Clearance” Advanced Architecture Studio 6 led by Andrés Jaque. “A ‘Wicked Problem’: Post-Wildfire Restructuring in Exurban San Diego” by Kate Galbo, Ri Le, and Rawnak Zaman completed during the Spring 2020 Advanced Spatial Analytics course led by Anthony Vanky. Columbia University Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 (212) 854-3414 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Please click here to sign up for occasional emails © 2022 Columbia University / Colophon