COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Undergraduate Admission Requirements Section Menu Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Majors Tuition and Fees Visit Campus FAQ Admission Requirements Housing Scholarships Financial Aid Request Information Contact Admissions Wichita State University admits degree-bound college freshmen and transfer students, as well as non-degree students who have special interests in college credit work but no immediate degree objectives at Wichita State. Apply now Freshman Transfer Adult Nondegree Former Shocker Age 60+ High School Guest Freshman Requirements Freshmen are assured admission to Wichita State if they meet the following: 1. Have a cumulative 2.25 unweighted or higher GPA on a 4.00 scale, OR 2. Achieve an ACT composite of 21 or higher OR a minimum combined SAT ERW+M score of 1060 (test optional for admission) And, if applicable, achieve a 2.0 GPA on all college credit taken in high school. Please note, if you do not meet the guaranteed admission requirements, you're still encouraged to apply. Your application will be reviewed individually. If you graduated from a non-accredited high school or were homeschooled, you must: Achieve an ACT of 21 or higher OR a minimum combined SAT ERW+M score of at least 1060, have a cumulative 2.25 or higher GPA on a 4.00 scale. If you enroll in college courses while in high school, you must also achieve a 2.00 GPA or higher in those courses. If you obtained your GED, you must: For GED tests from 2002-2013: Have a minimum score of 510 on each sub test and an overall score of 2550 to be admitted. For GED tests from 2014 and on: Have a minimum score of 150 on each sub test and an overall score of 680 to be admitted. Back to top Transfer Requirements If you are a transfer student with 24 credit hours or more, you must: Have a minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA (on a 4.00 scale) on all previous college work. If you are a transfer student under age 21, with fewer than 24 credit hours, you must: 1. Have a minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA (on a 4.00 scale) on all previous college work. 2. Meet the freshman requirements. Certain academic colleges within Wichita State require students to meet a minimum GPA for admission to their colleges. The School of Business requires that incoming students have a minimum 2.25 GPA, and the College of Applied Studies requires a minimum 2.00 GPA. The College of Health Professions has GPA requirements that vary depending on major. Please note, if you do not meet the guaranteed admission requirements, you are still encouraged to apply. Your application will be reviewed individually. Back to top Adult Learner Requirements If you are an adult learner (21 years and older) with fewer than 24 credit hours, you must: 1. Have a minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA (on a 4.00 scale) on all previous college work. 2. Have graduated from an accredited high school or have an overall score of 680 on the GED. If you are an adult learner (21 years and older) with no transfer work, you must: Have graduated from an accredited high school or have an overall score of 680 on the GED. Certain academic colleges within Wichita State require students to meet a minimum GPA for admission to their colleges. The School of Business requires that incoming students have a minimum 2.25 GPA, and the College of Applied Studies requires a minimum 2.00 GPA. The College of Health Professions has GPA requirements that vary depending on major. Back to top Nondegree, Concurrent Enrollment, College and High School Guest Requirements Wichita State University admits nondegree students who have special interests in college credit work but no immediate degree objectives at Wichita State. All students entering Wichita State for the first time must submit: an application for admission a nonrefundable $25 application fee Please note, while transcripts from previous colleges are not required for guest admission, transcripts may be required to verify completion of prerequisite courses. Open Admission An open admission student is one who: Has graduated from high school, or has a GED; or Has not graduated from high school or completed a GED, and is at least 21 years of age; or Is on active military duty; or Holds a bachelor’s or higher degree. Students not meeting the requirements above may be considered for nondegree admission at the discretion of the Office of Admissions. Students admitted as open admission students will be considered nondegree for their first 30 credit hours. Beyond the 30 credit hour limit, students must apply for degree-bound admission and meet the requirements for the intended program. To transition to degree-bound, students must submit an application for admission, the $40 application fee, and all transcripts when applying for degree-bound admission. Students under open admission may NOT receive financial aid. College Guest Admission Students Students attending another college or university who wish to attend Wichita State temporarily, should submit a nondegree college guest application and application fee to the Office of Admissions. Please note: while transcripts from previous colleges are not required for guest admission, transcripts may be required to verify completion of prerequisite courses. Guest admission is limited to 30 credit hours. Beyond the 30 credit hour limit, students must apply for degree-bound admission and meet the requirements for the intended program. To transition to degree-bound, students must submit an application for admission, the $40 application fee, and all transcripts when applying for degree-bound admission. Students under nondegree-bound admission may NOT receive financial aid. Concurrent enrollment students Learn more about becoming a concurrent enrollment student High school guest students Learn more about becoming a high school guest student Back to top Former WSU Student Requirements If you previously studied at Wichita State as an undergraduate degree-bound student (but not as a high school guest student, non-degree regular, non-degree open or college guest) and you would like to resume studying as an undergraduate after an absence, you do not need to apply for admission again. Students whose previous enrollment was only in a non-degree category (high school guests, non-degree regular, non-degree open or college guest) who now wish to be degree bound, must apply for degree-bound admission. Apply at wichita.edu/apply. If it has been less than two years since you last enrolled at WSU, you do not need to reactivate your file. You may visit with an advisor in your college for assistance in selecting classes and register/pay in the myWSU portal. If it has been two years or longer since you last enrolled, you must submit an online reactivation form to the Register's Office before you can register for classes. Back to top Age 60+ Requirements Tuition Waiver Students who are at least 60 years of age may audit (non-credit) regular lecture or certain group activity courses with available space. Tuition is waived, but students must pay any fees associated with the course (facilities use fee, workshop fee or lab/special course fee). Prerequisites Classes can be audited, provided students have completed the necessary prerequisites. Prerequisites include admission to graduate school for graduate courses and program admission for courses in which program admission is required of all students. Getting Admitted & Enrolled Students aged 60 or older who have not enrolled at WSU before must complete an Application for Admission and pay the application fee before registering, $25 for undergraduate or $50 for graduate. Students must present a Medicare Card or driver's license to validate age. A special registration for students aged 60 or older is held after the first day of classes. » Download a 60+ admission application (PDF) or complete the application online at wichita.edu/apply by selecting the Undergraduate Non-Degree application, Senior Citizen option. For-Credit Classes Students aged 60 or older desiring college credit or the assurance of space in specific courses may enroll and pay full fees during regular registration. Course prerequisites apply. More Information For more information on admission for students aged 60 or older, see the Schedule of Courses. Back to top 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©