COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WuShock: A True Original Section Menu About Us Fast Facts Innovation at WSU Research at WSU Vision, Mission and Goals Strategic Plan University Growth Explore Wichita DiscoverWSU Maps and Directions Activities and Traditions WuShock Administration WSU Newsroom Public Information Employment Stop Video Hosting an event that won't be the same without WuShock? Invite Wu!Request a Wu appearance WuShock is a big, bad, muscle-bound bundle of wheat. He's been WSU's mascot since 1948, a friend to every Shocker fan and the No. 1 supporter of all things Wichita and Wichita State. Follow Wu on Facebook Follow Wu on Twitter Shocker Athletics 8-foot WuShock sculpture dedicated WSU's main campus is now home to a larger-than-life sculpture of WuShock at the entrance plaza of the new Steve Clark YMCA and Student Wellness Center, thanks to Clark – a longtime Greater Wichita YMCA board member, volunteer and donor – for whom the area’s tenth YMCA branch location is named. Local artist Wade Hampton and sculptor Connie Ematt worked with WSU Athletics and Clark create the bronze sculpture. A documentary about the creation of the sculpture won "Best Kansas Documentary Short" at the 2020 Tallgrass Film Festival. Watch the WuShock documentary WuShock Gallery Read more about Wu Origin story Courtesy WuShock in his awkward adolescent phase. Wichita State University, formerly Fairmount College, received its first mascot name about the time it received its first football coach. Tradition has it that in 1904, football manager and student R.J. Kirk needed a name for the team in order to advertise Fairmount's upcoming engagement with the Chilocco Indians. He came up with Wheatshockers. At the time, many Fairmount football players earned tuition and board harvesting, or "shocking," wheat during the summer harvests, so the name seemed appropriate. Early football games were played on a stubbled wheat field. Pep club members were known as Wheaties. Although the Wheatshockers name was never officially adopted by the university, it caught on and survived until it was later shortened to Shockers. Until 1948, the university used a nameless shock of wheat as its symbol. WuShock came to life in 1948, when junior Wilbur Elsea won the Kappa Pi honorary society's competition to design a mascot typifying the spirit of the school. Elsea, who had been a Marine during World War II, decided that "the school needed a mascot who gave a tough impression, with a serious, no-nonsense scowl." Once Elsea's mascot was adopted by the university, which by that time was known as the Municipal University of Wichita, all that was needed was a name. The Oct. 7, 1948, issue of The Sunflower, the student newspaper, ran an advertisement urging students to submit names for the school's new mascot. It was freshman Jack Kersting who suggested the winning name, "WuShock." A very special birthday In 1998, WuShock, also referred to as "Wu," marked his 50th birthday by undergoing a redesign and getting a pumped-up physique and revved-up attitude. The mascot's costume has changed over the years, as well. With the redesign, a new costume was introduced in fall 1998. In fall 1999, the head of the new costume underwent another redesign after a number of supporters suggested the mascot needed a more intimidating look. (In 2005, this version of WuShock was singled out by Sports Illustrated as one of college sports' worst mascots.) Getting a makeover Wu got one more facelift in 2006, owing mostly to the unwieldy costume's top-heavy tendency to exhaust and endanger its human component. (Yes, there is a person inside the costume.) The new Wu looks strikingly like the image on the logo, and is gradually endearing himself to his legions of fans. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©