Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Tangeman University Center TUC right arrow down arrow Visiting TUC right arrow down arrow Floor Plans Dining right arrow down arrow Catering Convenience Store Vending Services Retail right arrow down arrow UC Bookstores right arrow down arrow Course Materials & Tech Fan Gear For Grads & Alumni, Plus Special Orders Bearcat Card right arrow down arrow Where to Use Your Bearcat Card Terms & Conditions Frequently Asked Questions Information for Merchants PNC Bank & ATMs Convenience Store Services right arrow down arrow Study Spaces MainStreet Connection Center Wepa Print Station Lost & Found Steger Student Life Center (SSLC) Bearcat Promise Career Studio Promotions Request Meetings & Events right arrow down arrow Great Hall Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Rates Planning Services Request a Space About TUC right arrow down arrow Larry Elsasser Scholarship & Recipients Video Backgrounds Home » Campus Life » TUC » Dining Set Navigation title in component Catering Convenience Store Vending Services Dining Refresh. Refuel. Replenish. Tangeman University Center has everything you need for a burst of energy for class or a reward for a long day of learning. Whatever your reason for stopping in, TUC has something for you! The TUC Food Court houses many of your favorite restaurants that are perfect pit stops for gathering with friends, meeting with professors, hosting study groups and much more. You'll find lots of tables in the Food Court, or take your food to one of the many open seating areas on Levels 3 and 4. Chick-fil-A Panda Express Chinese Kitchen Qdoba Switch’n Kitchen Subway (located at Steger Student Life Center) If you need to eat on the move, TUC has you covered with grab-and-go options at the MainStreet ExpressMart and Mick & Mack’s on Level 3, and Catskeller on Level 1. Meal plan holders are able to swipe & dine at Mick & Mack’s and Catskeller for either a hot buffet meal or cold Grab & Go option. No meal plan? Pay at the door. Locations & Hours Tangeman University Center 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-2831 mainstreet@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Tangeman University Center 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-2831 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top