Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Sam Holland, Algur H. Meadows Dean and Professor of Music Sam Holland, Algur H. Meadows Dean and Professor of Music Meadows School of the Arts About SMU Meadows School of the Arts: Message From The Dean Message From The Dean Message From The Dean Black Lives Matter at SMU Meadows Previous Dean Artists are creators. Artists are citizens. Artists are community builders. And artists are advocates. Artists are people who imagine other worlds and share them with the human race. In creating art, artists seek not only to create beauty, but to change hearts and minds, influence decisions, and make the world a better place. At the Meadows School, we challenge each student to develop his or her gifts to the highest level. We challenge students to find their unique voices and to develop the highest level of craftsmanship. If fame happens, we celebrate it, but few successful artists will become famous. Instead most artists make their living working in a community. While message and craft are the foundations of art, at Meadows we also practice entrepreneurship, outreach, and engagement because they make an artist employable and relevant. A university is a place where learning changes lives. It is a place for deep and authentic dialogue, for encounters with the classic and the contemporary, the sacred and the profane, the complex and contradictory, the shocking, the mysterious, and the beautiful. Through art we show the world that dreams can be made real and that possibilities exist beyond our wildest imaginations. At Meadows, we celebrate the gift of learning, growing, and imagining all of the things that a community of artists, dreamers, thinkers, and scholars can do for the greater good—in our community, in our country, and in the world. We invite you to join us. I hope to see you on campus, Sam Holland Algur H. Meadows Dean and Professor of Music Dean Samuel S. Holland is an award-winning educator, performer, author, and editor. His 70-plus critically acclaimed books and recordings are available throughout the world. Learn more. Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search