Skip to main content College of Engineering Menu Close About Dean’s Welcome At A Glance Faculty and Staff Directory Employment Opportunities Contact Us Admissions Visit the College Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Departments Undergraduate Graduate Distance Education Faculty and Staff New Faculty Faculty Advancement Communications Finance and Personnel Information Technology Staff Senate Research Centers and Institutes Office of Research and Graduate Programs Office of Research Administration The James B. Hunt Jr. Library Outreach The Engineering Place Engineering Career Fair Research Experiences for Teachers Teaching and Learning STEM Industry Expansion Solutions (IES) NC Clean Energy Technology Center (NCCETC) Alumni and Giving The Engineering Foundation Giving Priorities Ways to Give Corporate Partners Donor Recognition Young Alumni Homecoming News and Events Alumni Students Faculty and Staff Research Outreach Video Magazine Give Now About About Dean’s Welcome At A Glance Faculty and Staff Directory Employment Opportunities Contact Us Admissions Admissions Visit the College Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Graduate Distance Education Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff New Faculty Faculty Advancement Communications Finance and Personnel Information Technology Staff Senate Research Research Centers and Institutes Office of Research and Graduate Programs Office of Research Administration The James B. Hunt Jr. Library Outreach Outreach The Engineering Place Engineering Career Fair Research Experiences for Teachers Teaching and Learning STEM Industry Expansion Solutions (IES) NC Clean Energy Technology Center (NCCETC) Alumni and Giving Alumni and Giving The Engineering Foundation Giving Priorities Ways to Give Corporate Partners Donor Recognition Young Alumni Homecoming News and Events News and Events Alumni Students Faculty and Staff Research Outreach Video Magazine Give Now Undergraduate Degrees and Academic Programs Undergraduate Scholarships First-Year College Welcome First-Year Engineering Design Day Common First-Year Engineering Living and Learning Villages High-Impact Activities Academic Advising Computing Resources Academic Enrichment Opportunities Join a Department – Change of Degree Application (CODA) Graduation Policy for the College of Engineering Professional Engineer Licensure Recognition of Graduates Event COE Undergraduate Stats and Facts ABET at NC State Office of Academic Affairs Women and Minority Engineering Programs (WMEP) Minority Engineering Programs (MEP) Undergraduate Menu Degrees and Academic Programs Undergraduate Scholarships First-Year– College Welcome – First-Year Engineering Design Day – Common First-Year – Engineering Living and Learning Villages – High-Impact Activities Academic Advising Computing Resources Academic Enrichment Opportunities Join a Department – Change of Degree Application (CODA) Graduation Policy for the College of Engineering Professional Engineer Licensure Recognition of Graduates Event COE Undergraduate Stats and Facts ABET at NC State Office of Academic Affairs– Women and Minority Engineering Programs (WMEP)–– Minority Engineering Programs (MEP) Women and Minority Engineering Programs (WMEP) We focus on ensuring a diverse student body by providing community building and engagement, academic support and professional development through several activities to ensure an inclusive environment for students. The Office of Academic Affairs in the College of Engineering sponsors the WMEP Programs. Goals To increase the number of minorities and women entering the College of Engineering To increase the retention rates of minorities and women who enroll in the College of Engineering To increase the graduation rates of minorities and women in the College of Engineering To support K-12 education and outreach activities for minorities and women To create a collaborative environment for all students, faculty and staff that embraces and appreciates diversity in our community of scholars To engage corporate partners and alumni in ways that mutually benefit all parties while supporting minorities and women in the College of Engineering FOR OUR PROSPECTIVE AND NEWLY ADMITTED STUDENTS Are you thinking about the fall and wondering what it may do to your first semester in college? There is no better way to be sure you have a good, fulfilling experience than to connect with WMEP folks. Need help making decisions? Email us at engr-wmeprograms@ncsu.edu. We will be sure you have everything you need to do what is right for you! Here are some videos to help you get to know us as you decide whether you want to join our Wolfpack family! We hope you do! David speaks about joining the Latinx fraternity WMEP overview with Rachel Programs Offered Programs for Incoming Students WMEP SEE (Summer Exploration Experience) Camp Each year, hundreds of newly admitted engineers are invited to participate in this summer bridge program, where they interact with engineering faculty members, visit industry sites and get an early start on their membership in the engineering family. You will spend a week on campus with us, make new friends, do exciting engineering activities, eat (A LOT), and maybe even meet someone who will hire you for your first job! Summer orientation is a part of the experience. Watch your email for an invitation! Minority Engineering Programs Overnight Recruitment Weekend The Overnight Recruitment Weekend is geared toward admitted students who are interested in learning more about the NC State campus and the rigors of completing an engineering degree. The weekend is held in conjunction with the College of Engineering’s Open House. The Overnight Recruitment Weekend allows students to see first-hand what life as an engineering student entails and gain insight into the opportunities available for a successful undergraduate career at NC State University. Prospective students are assigned a host for the weekend and stay in residence halls located on and off campus. Prospective students also attend classes with hosts and participate in a formal evening program that includes a catered meal, student panel and entertainment provided by student organizations. Summer Research Program The WMEP Summer Research Program (WMSRP) is a 10-week program designed to provide high-impact research experiences for undergraduate students. WMSRP aims to increase each student’s research self-efficacy and awareness of prospective research opportunities in both academic and professional settings. Students complete an Engineering Research Principles course. Students then conduct research and prepare abstracts and posters of their work, which is then presented at the annual Undergraduate Research Symposium. Programs for Current Students Taste of Engineering Each year, the engineering departments come together bringing food and drink that relate to their majors. Students have an opportunity to receive help in choosing a department, discuss jobs versus graduate school, talk about how to pursue undergraduate research, and more . . . all while sampling a wide variety of food offerings! Graduate Student Dialogs Graduate students are invited to get together with engineering faculty members and staff, just to chat, get support and mentoring, and network. Tools Workshop Students have an opportunity to spend an evening gaining confidence with all the kinds of tools that they may use as engineering students. From soldering to saws, from pipettes to breadboards, interesting projects are set up and students flow from one station to another to play and learn. Student Advancement and Retention Teams (START) START is an early intervention and peer-mentoring program for first-year minority engineering students. Students are paired by either major, demographics, or both with an upper-class engineering student. START teams meet on a regular basis to discuss issues like what classes to take or how to get an internship. START enables first-year minority engineering students to get off to a “good start.” E 144 and E 145 (First-Year Orientation Courses) These professional student development courses are designed specifically for the minority first-year students in the College of Engineering. Fall topics for the E 144* course include time management, social adjustment, expectations, leisure alternatives and test management. Spring topics in E 145* include effective communication, resume writing, interviewing skills, internships, co-operative education and critical thinking. Women in Science and Engineering (WISE) WISE is a living and learning community created for first- and second-year women engineers, mathematicians, statisticians and scientists. The program combines a group living experience with resident, upper-class mentors who will assist in the transition to university life. Promoting academic success; fostering the formation of lasting relationships with fellow students, professors and mentors; and providing out-of-class experiences are fundamental components of the program. *Information about E 115, E 144, E 145 and other courses can be obtained at the Registration and Records’ Class Search. We Need You! Many of the programs we offer can’t happen without students like you! We are always looking for students to serve in different roles for our programs, i.e., mentors, counselors and panelists. If you are interested in helping out, just let us know! Student Organizations Get Involved at NC State Alpha Omega Epsilon Learn More American Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES) Learn More National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) Learn More Society for Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans in Science (SACNAS) Learn More Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE) Learn More Society of Women Engineers (SWE) Learn More Women in Mechanical and Aerospace (WIMA) Learn More Women in Computer Science Learn More Women in Nuclear (WIN) Learn More oSTEM Read more GLBTQ+ in STEM Read more Minority Engineering Programs continue to grow Three years out of mechanical engineering classes at NC State, Brooke Wages is giving back to the program that meant so much to her during her time on campus. In 2016, Wages made a donation of $15,000 to the College’s Minority Engineering Programs (MEP). Read the full story Networking Networking isn’t just a buzzword; it’s a necessary part of succeeding as a student . . . and in life. You need to talk to other students, your teachers, people working in industry and government, on and on. This is not always easy, especially if you tend toward being introverted. The best way to do it is to simply show up! Find a club meeting (or a Women in Engineering Program) and just go. Or invite your roommate to go with you. Go to office hours and introduce yourself. Meet your professor one on one. The ENGAGE Engineering project has some great tips on how to go about this. Look for engineering society meetings where industry and government representatives will be in attendance. Some groups, like SWE, have visitors nearly every meeting. Another good time to find these opportunities is in the evenings before or after the Engineering Career Fair. Remember, networking at its heart is about having conversations with people. You will be amazed at what develops when you just step out! Scholarships NEED SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION? Visit the College’s Scholarship page. The College of Engineering awards merit-based and need-based scholarships to entering first-year, transfer and continuing students. The College of Engineering takes seriously its obligation to attract, mentor and graduate a diverse student population. Consequently, every effort is made to ensure underrepresented minorities and women are included in the eligibility pool of serious candidates for merit and need-based scholarships. For more information about College of Engineering scholarships, see scholarships for incoming first-year, transfer and current students. Participants Engineering student dances in the men’s fancy during a Native American powwow at NC State. Students who identify as African American, Hispanic/Latino, Pacific Islander, Native Alaskan or Native American are underrepresented when enrolling and graduating in STEM (Science, Engineering, Technology and Math) fields. As a result, many engineering colleges and universities have minority engineering programs or diversity offices aimed at recruiting, retaining and graduating minority engineers. Many of the same institutions also have women in engineering programs with the same purpose: to recruit, retain and graduate women. Although our programs are open to all students (without regard to race, ethnicity, gender or sexual orientation), students with one of the backgrounds listed above or any combination of the three are automatically a part of the Women and Minority Engineering Programs.* Whether you start your NC State College of Engineering journey as a new first-year or you have transferred to the College of Engineering, you are a part of WMEP. *Students who choose not to report their ethnicity will not be included in program communications and activities. Many opportunities will be shared on the WMEP ListServ aimed at attracting diverse students to the field of engineering and ensuring retention all the way through graduation from the College. These opportunities may be special events with our corporate sponsors, scholarship opportunities, employment opportunities, etc. More Opportunities Minority-Related Links Research NC State Multicultural Student Affairs NSF-REU Locations NC State Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Undergraduate Research at NC State The National GEM Consortium NC State ASSIST Summer REU Program The National Association of Multicultural Engineering Program Advocates (NAMEPA) NC State FREEDOM CENTER Undergraduate Research National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering (NACME) NC State Summer Research Experiences (SRE) Minority Engineering Programs (MEP) Ms. Angelitha L. Daniel Director, Minority Engineering Programs College of Engineering NC State University 111 Lampe Drive Raleigh, NC 27695-7904 919.515.3264 or aldaniel@ncsu.edu Dr. Javon Adams Diversity Research Coordinator (919) 515-3263 or jmadams2@ncsu.edu Kimberly Pender Program Coordinator (919) 515-9635 or kppender@ncsu.edu Women in Engineering (WIE) Dr. Laura J. Bottomley Director, Women in Engineering Programs College of Engineering NC State University 111 Lampe Drive Raleigh, NC 27695-7904 919.515.3263 or laurab@ncsu.edu Dr. Bottomley’s Blog Women in Science and Engineering (WISE) Dr. Katherine Titus-Becker Director, Women in Science and Engineering (WISE), Living and Learning Village College of Engineering NC State University 105 Lee Hall, Campus Box 7904 Raleigh, NC 27695-7904 919.513.7611 or katherine_titus-becker@ncsu.edu College of Engineering Home Fitts-Woolard Hall 915 Partners Way Raleigh, NC 27695-7901 Campus Map Contact Us Parking and Directions Accessibility Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.