Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University GSAS Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded I am a... Degree Programs Student Guide Graduate Life Our Community Blog Prospective Student Current Student Faculty & Staff Alumna / Alumnus Admissions MA Programs PhD Programs Coronavirus Information for GSAS Students Financing Your Education New Student Guide Policy Handbook Research Teaching The Dissertation Career Development Convocation Diversity and Inclusion GSAS Writing Studio Graduate Student Center Student Life & Well-Being Alumni Network Dean’s Welcome GSAS at a Glance History Publications Staff Contact Us GSAS You are here: Home Graduate Life Career Development Career Development GSAS Compass helps doctoral and master’s students in the Arts and Sciences to identify, work toward, and achieve their post-graduation career goals. We are committed to creating an inclusive culture that fosters exploration, nurtures diverse interests, and assists in preparing GSAS students for a range of careers that are well suited to their individual skills, interests, values, and personalities. Above all, we empower students to harness their academic training in any career path they pursue. Subscribe to the Columbia GSAS YouTube channel to watch recordings of past workshops and events. Follow Columbia GSAS on LinkedIn to stay up-to-date on our programming. Access GSAS Connect Log into GSAS Connect to: Request a career advising appointment RSVP for workshops and events Explore our Resource Library Search for jobs and internships. Contact Information GSAS Compass 106 Low Library Rachel Bernard, Director Francesca Fanelli, Associate Director Questions? Contact [email protected] GSAS Compass Student Toolkit GSAS Connect GSAS Connect is your online career management hub for one-on-one advising appointments, career event registration, online resources, and job and internship postings. Meet Our Staff Get to know our experienced career advisors. One-on-one Career Advising Read about our policies for one-on-one career advising sessions and what to expect in your first appointment. General Career Development Resources Learn about services, tools, and resources that are available to GSAS master’s and doctoral students and recent alumni. Career Exploration in the Humanities and Social Sciences Browse a selection of resources tailored to common career paths for humanities and social science graduate students. Career Exploration in STEM Browse a selection of resources tailored to common career paths for graduate students in STEM. COVID-19-Specific Job Searching Tips and Support Visit this page for tips on how to continue your job search, even during this period of uncertainty. Programming and Events GSAS Compass offers students a suite of career development workshops, networking events, and opportunities to connect with employers. GSAS and University Resources GSAS Office of Academic Diversity and Inclusion OADI offers a wide variety of programs and workshops that support community-building and professional development, with a focus on the unique needs of students from underrepresented groups. GSAS Writing Studio Join a community of dissertators, improve your efficiency as a writer, and get dissertation writing support. GSAS Fellowships in Academic Administration Gain experience in academic administration through this innovative fellowship program for advanced doctoral students. Arts and Sciences Graduate Council Get involved in student government or a student group, connect with graduate students in other departments, and apply for funding to attend a conference or organize an event on campus. Center for Teaching and Learning Develop your teaching skills with CTL, which partners with faculty, students, and staff across the University to support excellence and innovation in teaching and learning. International Students & Scholars Office If you are an international student, ISSO is your resource for all questions about how employment affects your visa status. Employers and Alumni Hire GSAS Students or Alumni Employers, please start here to learn more about recruiting our exceptional student and alumni talent from the Graduate School at Columbia. Career Resources for Alumni GSAS alumni have lifetime access to a variety of career resources across campus. Recruitment Policies and Guidelines for Employers If you are interested in recruiting students and alumni from GSAS, please review our policies and guidelines. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences109 Low Memorial Library, MC 4306, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-8903 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close