COVID-19 Information logo Academics ACADEMICS Master’s Programs Master of Social Work MS in Social Policy MSSP+DA MS in Nonprofit Leadership Certificate Programs and Specializations MSW Certificate Programs & Specializations MSSP Certificate Programs NPL Certificate Programs Doctoral Programs PhD in Social Welfare Doctorate in Clinical Social Work Interdisciplinary Partnerships MSW/Certificate in Jewish Communal Service NPL/Center for Social Impact Strategy Executive Program NPL/Certificate in Jewish Communal Service NPL/Certificate in Jewish Nonprofit Management NPL/MA in Hebrew Letters NPL/MA in Jewish Communal Service NPL/Master of Social Welfare Dual Degree Programs Submatriculation for Penn Undergraduates MSW Dual Degree Programs MSSP Dual Degree Programs NPL Dual Degree Programs Continuing Education: OpenSP2 Academics The world needs leaders equipped with tools to make a difference. The School of Social Policy & Practice (SP2) will prepare you to become one of those leaders, as a policy maker, practitioner, educator, activist, and more. Learn More Admissions ADMISSIONS How to Apply Master of Social Work MS in Social Policy MS in Nonprofit Leadership PhD in Social Welfare Doctorate in Clinical Social Work Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Admissions Events Admissions Begin your journey to become part of the next generation of changemakers for social innovation, justice, and impact at the School of Social Policy & Practice (SP2). Learn More Apply Now Research RESEARCH Areas of Research Economic Security Children, Women, & Family Well-Being Data-Driven Policy Analysis + Evidence-Based Practice Health Equity, Mental Health & Aging Mass Incarceration, Homelessness, Substance Use Social Innovation, Philanthropy, + Nonprofit Management Identity, Immigration, + Racism Technology, Ethics, & Social Policy Visiting Students and Scholars Research Cutting-edge research leads to innovation and impact. Research at SP2 is led by renowned faculty who are highly respected practitioners, educators, and mentors. Learn More Faculty FACULTY Faculty News Faculty Directory Faculty Resources Students STUDENTS Student News Accepted Students Student Life Philadelphia Alumni Mentoring Libraries Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Health & Wellness Student Organizations Career & Professional Development Academic and Writing Support Academic Resources Master of Social Work MS in Social Policy MS in Nonprofit Leadership PhD in Social Welfare Doctorate in Clinical Social Work Global Opportunities Academic Policies and Procedures Students Our close-knit community is committed to progress, innovation, and social justice. Learn More Alumni ALUMNI Alumni News Career Services Networking Mentoring Opportunities Get Involved Nonprofit Leadership Alumni Association Dean’s Alumni Advisory Board Alumni Events Alumni Our students graduate committed to bringing innovation and passion to the pursuit of justice and positive social impact. Learn More Info For… INFO FOR Students Accepted Students Staff Faculty Field Instructors Community Partners Media Visitors ABOUT About Who We Are Why Sp2? Quick Facts SP2 Board Inclusion Dean’s Welcome APPLY NOW GIVE Give Giving Opportunities Your Impact Search SP2 Press what’s happening at sp2 The New York Times A New Legal Tactic to Protect Workers’ Pay Speaking about employers colluding to suppress employees’ wages, Ioana Marinescu says, “I suspect those things are all over the place. The benefits of collusion may not be super large, but if the costs are quite low, why not do it if you can extract profit?” MORE > KCRW (Santa Monica, California) LA to give $1000/mo to select families in poverty. How much can guaranteed basic income change their lives? “You can’t budget your way out of poverty,” says SP2 assistant professor Amy Castro. “If you could, all this money that’s been poured into financial literacy would have resulted in upward mobility. And it hasn’t. Because poverty by definition is lack of cash.” MORE > Forecast Direct Job Search, Job Posting and Unemployment Insurance During the COVID-19 Crisis: A Conversation with Leo Feler and Ioana Marinescu The Forecast Direct podcast at UCLA Anderson features a conversation with Leo Feler and SP2 associate professor Ioana Marinescu regarding research on how enhanced unemployment insurance affected job search and employment during the COVID-19 pandemic. MORE > New Books Network Facilitating Injustice: The Complicity of Social Workers in the Forced Removal and Incarceration of Japanese Americans, 1941-1946 SP2 associate professor Yoosun Park was a recent guest on the New Books Network to discuss her book, Facilitating Injustice: The Complicity of Social Workers in the Forced Removal and Incarceration of Japanese Americans, 1941-1946. Dr. Park’s book describes the role of social workers in Japanese internment. MORE > New Yorker Radio Hour The Child Tax Credit: One Small Step Toward Universal Basic Income? The child tax credit can be seen as a type of scale model of universal basic income. On The New Yorker Radio Hour, Sheelah Kolhatkar moderates a conversation about this issue between SP2 assistant professor Amy Castro and Michael Strain of the American Enterprise Institute. MORE > WalletHub 2021's Hardest-Working States in America SP2 associate professor Ioana Marinescu is a featured expert in WalletHub’s analysis of the productivity and current conditions of workers across the United States. MORE > Marketplace What will it take to diversify manufacturing? SP2 associate professor Ioana Marinescu was a recent guest on NPR’s Marketplace, discussing the current state of U.S. economic growth and how uncertainty associated with the Delta variant is affecting the job market. MORE > USA Today 5 things you and your college-bound daughter need to know about campus sexual assault In an opinion piece for USA Today, SP2 professor Susan B. Sorenson, PhD, writes about how parents can discuss campus sexual assault with their college-bound daughters MORE > Council on Social Work Education Examining Social Work's Involvement With Racially Punitive Systems SP2 associate professor Yoosun Park, PhD, is highlighted in the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE)’s Center for Diversity’s Educator|Resource of the Month feature for her research, including the book Facilitating Injustice: The Complicity of Social Workers in the Forced Removal & Incarceration of Japanese Americans, 1941-1946. MORE > KALW Public Media Why The "Worker Shortage" Is A Reflection Of Low Wages & The Pandemic Forced Moms To Leave The Workforce SP2 associate professor Ioana Marinescu, PhD, was a recent guest on KALW Local Public Radio to discuss how the COVID-19 pandemic has altered America’s work force and labor market. MORE > Footer DIRECTORY NEWS EVENTS POLICIES & PROCEDURES SP2 Academic Calendar EMPLOYMENT CONTACT US DISCLAIMER PRIVACY STATEMENT REPORT ACCESSIBILITY ISSUES/GET HELP SCHOOL OF SOCIAL POLICY & PRACTICE 3701 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104-6214 PHONE: 215 898 5512 FAX: 215 573 2099 FOLLOW US pennsp2 View May 27 Open SP2 PhD student Jess Kim is one of the organizers behind a push for AAPI education in K-12 classrooms. Kim says that learning AAPI history can instill a greater sense of identity and belonging, strengthen a sense of civic engagement for Asian Americans and help build multiracial coalitions. Link in bio. ... pennsp2 View May 26 Open A study of Black patients at a Veterans Affairs renal clinic investigated how structural racism impacted their lives and experience being treated for chronic kidney disease. “One of the things we’re working through now is how to provide the evidentiary point that racism is a trauma,” says Kevin Ahmaad Jenkins of the Leonard Davis Institute and SP2. See link in bio. ... pennsp2 View May 20 Open Congratulations, Class of 2022! More photos from the commencement luncheon and commencement ceremony are available at the link in bio. #SP2Grad ...