Skip to main content Give ☰ Home About Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs People Research News Alumni Give x Close Menu Home About Overview Facts and Rankings Facilities Visit Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Department History Contact Us Accreditation Undergraduate Programs Overview Aerospace Engineering Computational Engineering Admissions Advising Student Community Undergraduate Research Graduate Programs Overview Aerospace Engineering Engineering Mechanics Admissions Funding Graduate Community People Overview Faculty Staff Department Leadership External Advisory Committee Research Overview Affiliated Research Centers Seminars Recent Grants Awarded Undergraduate Research News Overview Longhorn Liftoff Magazine Newsletters Media Mentions Alumni Overview Academy of Distinguished Alumni Alumni Profiles Stay Engaged Giving Home to Programs in Aerospace Engineering, Computational Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Learn More About Our Department Pause Video RT @TexasLonghorns: We remember and honor those who made the ultimate sacrifice for our country. #MemorialDay https://t.co/vooJE81P32 Follow @utaerospace News Roger Bonnecaze Named Dean of the Cockrell School of Engineering Roger Bonnecaze, an internationally recognized expert in rheology and modeling and simulation for nanomanufacturing who has served as a faculty member at The University of Texas at Austin for nearly 30 years, has been named dean of the university’s Cockrell School of Engineering after a national search. Keep reading Class of 2022: Leaders, Researchers, World-Changers Congratulations to our Class of of 2022 seniors – they did it! Learn more about just a few of our outstanding students' experiences and what they plan to do next as they head out to change the world. Keep reading Ann Chen Awarded W. A. "Tex" Moncrief Grand Challenge Award for 2022 Ann Chen has been selected for a 2022 W. A. "Tex" Moncrief Grand Challenge Award which she plans to use to characterize aquifers using satellite data and inform Aquifer Storage and Recovery managers of the optimal pumping/recharge schedule and placement of wells. Keep reading Alumna Jill Meyers Honored with K. Wright Trophy Distinguished alumna Jill Meyers has been recognized by the National Aeronautic Association with the Katharine Wright Trophy "for her 40 years of dedication to the aerospace industry and her tireless commitment as a volunteer and role model, working to educate and inspire young girls around the globe." Keep reading First Computational Engineering Undergraduate Program Offered by a U.S. University Computational engineering is a new and rapidly growing multidisciplinary field that applies advanced computational methods and analysis to engineering practice. Learn More Research Areas Aerothermodynamics and Fluid Mechanics This area involves study and research in hypersonics, aerodynamics, gas dynamics, turbulence,... Learn more Computational Engineering This area involves study and research on theoretical and implementational aspects of numerical... Learn more Controls, Autonomy and Robotics This area involves research in system theory, controls, networks, autonomy, and robotics with... Learn more Orbital Mechanics This area involves study and research in orbital mechanics, space geodesy, and remote sensing in... Learn more Solids, Structures and Materials This area involves study and research in mechanics of composite materials, fracture mechanics,... Learn more 1st Computational Engineering Undergraduate Program Offered by a U.S. University #8 Graduate Aerospace Engineering Program in the Nation U.S. News & World Report #9 Undergraduate Aerospace Engineering Program in the Nation U.S. News & World Report Spotlights Explore more at the ASE/EM Department 19th U.S. National Congress on Theoretical and Applied Mechanics at UT Austin Learn more about the event being held June 19-24 Newly-Funded Faculty Research Projects Learn more about current ASE/EM research projects Faculty Openings Learn more Research Seminars View all © The University of Texas at Austin | Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Canvas Contact Us ENGR Direct Faculty and Staff Intranet Faculty Directory Giving Information Technology Room Reservations Seminars UT Direct UT Directory Follow UT ASE/EM