Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Educational Leadership EdD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Educational Leadership EdD Apply Visit Request More Info Educational Leadership EdD Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Doctor of Education in Educational Leadership The Doctor of Education in Educational Leadership program in the College of Education and Human Development prepares graduates to become effective administrators and visionary leaders. Students learn the skills required to lead organizations, manage change, and apply research and theory to real-world problems. Executive Educational Leadership EdD program courses are taught by faculty with both academic credentials and experience as practitioners. Coursework combines the theoretical and methodological foundations of academic research with an applied focus, allowing students to develop the professional and interpersonal wisdom needed to successfully manage change in complex organizations. Graduates are well prepared to lead schools, school districts and organizations and possess the skills required to conduct, interpret and evaluate research and data, diagnose and resolve organizational challenges, and create programs and policies that affect learning success. This cohort-based executive graduate program consists of a fixed set of courses offered in a specific sequence, and all students in each cohort take the same courses in the same sequence. Courses are offered one weekend per month to accommodate the schedules of working professionals. All courses within the Executive Educational Leadership EdD program are offered at Temple University Center City. The program is designed to be completed on a part-time basis; students may complete the program in three years. Related Graduate Degrees Education PhD Higher Education EdD Policy and Organizational Studies PhD with a concentration in Urban Education Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,184.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,513.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Christopher McGinley, professor of practice, is the department chair and faculty program coordinator of the Educational Leadership EdD program. Phone: 215-204-6167 Email: christopher.mcginley@temple.edu Our Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate academic advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. In this executive, cohort-based program, administrative details are handled by an advisor who registers students, supplies books and materials, and keeps students informed about schedules, deadlines and requirements. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-EDLS-EDD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Educational Leadership EdD Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info