Skip to main content Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research Services We're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities, mathematics, music, physical sciences and social sciences collections Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major who wants to help! Teaching Support We have librarians who specializes in your subject area and can support your students’ learning. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Students Course Reserves provides access to materials professors identify as important and that have a shortened loan time of two, four, or 24-hours. Access reserve materials through the course Canvas page. Select Library Reserves/Guides at the left to see materials placed on reserve. Direct link: https://dcl.alma.exlibrisgroup.com/leganto/login?auth=SAML. Reserve Policies Checking Out Materials Three items maximum may be borrowed at once. Items with a two- or four-hour loan time that are checked out within two or four hours of the library’s closing are due a half-hour after the opening of the library the following morning. Reserve items must be returned directly back to where they were checked out. Overdue Fines During term: $1.00 per hour, per item. During reading period and exams: $5.00 per hour, per item. Items due prior to the library’s closing and not returned on time are charged overdue fines for the overnight hours. Reserves Books are organized by course in the library catalog Use the Course Reserve dropdown in the Library Search. Search by course number, i.e. ANTH.003. Electronic book access varies by provider. You can also access the library course page through your Canvas course site: Library Reserves/Guides. Waitlists If the item is checked out, your name may be added to a waitlist. Please pick up within 30 minutes after receiving the email pick-up notification. Renewals Renewals are in-person only, with the reserve material in hand. If an item is waitlisted, it cannot be renewed. Returning Items must be returned directly to the library desk where they were checked out. For Baker-Berry reserve items, please return items to the Baker Circulation desk. When Baker-Berry library is closed, an after-hours return box is at the bottom of the stairs near the Novack Cafe. Lost or Missing Materials Any items lost or stolen must be replaced. Please notify staff as soon as possible to stop fine accrual and to start the replacement procedure. Replacement fees are the cost of the item. If the material is found and returned, the replacement fees are refunded. Fairness All are expected to respect the rights of everyone to access to course reserve items. Professors and Deans may be contacted regarding non-timely returns of reserve materials. Abuse of library privileges is a breach of the College code of conduct (Standard VIII) and may result in disciplinary action as determined by the Deans. What I need is not on reserve, now what? Look up the title of the item in the library catalog and follow the borrowing instructions or suggest to your professor that they place course materials on reserve. For Faculty Learn how to place course materials on reserve for your students Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Borrowing & Requesting Tech Loans Alumni Access and Resources Media Off-Campus Access Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy