Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Leadership and Governance Officers and Deans About Harvard History of Harvard Timeline Nobel Laureates Harvard’s Laureates in Economic Science Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Chemistry Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Literature Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Medicine Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Peace Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Physics History of honorary degrees Harvard Shields Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World Leadership and Governance Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers Endowment About Harvard History of Harvard Timeline Nobel Laureates Harvard’s Laureates in Economic Science Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Chemistry Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Literature Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Medicine Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Peace Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Physics History of honorary degrees Harvard Shields Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World Leadership and Governance Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers Endowment More Harvard’s President Lawrence S. Bacow leads Harvard University as its 29th President. Visit the Office of the President Provost Alan M. Garber leads the Office of the Provost, which manages changes in University-wide policies and practices. Visit the Office of the Provost Deans Tomiko Brown-Nagin Dean, Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Learn more about Dean Brown-Nagin Nancy Coleman Dean, Division of Continuing Education and University Extension Learn more about Dean Coleman George Q. Daley Dean, Harvard Medical School Learn more about Dean Daley Srikant Datar Dean, Harvard Business School Learn more about Dean Datar Emma Dench Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Lean more about Dean Dench Francis J. Doyle III John A. Paulson Dean, Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Learn more about Dean Doyle Douglas Elmendorf Dean, Harvard Kennedy School of Government Learn more about Dean Elmendorf Claudine Gay Edgerley Family Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Learn more about Dean Gay William V. Giannobile Dean, Harvard School of Dental Medicine Learn more about Dean Giannobile David N. Hempton Dean, Harvard Divinity School Learn more about Dean Hempton Rakesh Khurana Danoff Dean of Harvard College Learn more about Dean Khurana Bridget Long Dean, Harvard Graduate School of Education Learn more about Dean Long John F. Manning Morgan and Helen Chu Dean, Harvard Law School Learn more about Dean Manning Sarah M. Whiting Dean, Graduate School of Design Learn more about Dean Whiting Michelle A. Williams Dean, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Learn more about Dean Williams Vice Presidents Paul Andrew Vice President for Public Affairs and Communications Patricia Bellinger Chief of Staff and Strategic Advisor to the President Sherri Ann Charleston Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer Manuel Cuevas-Trisán Vice President for Human Resources Marc Goodheart Vice President, Secretary of the University, Secretary to the Corporation, Assistant to the President; Secretary of the Board of Overseers Thomas J. Hollister Vice President for Finance and Chief Financial Officer Klara Jelinkova Vice President for Harvard Information Technology Services and Chief Information Officer Purnima Kapur Chief of University Planning and Design Katherine N. Lapp Executive Vice President Brian Lee Vice President for Alumni Affairs and Development Diane Lopez Vice President and General Counsel Meredith Weenick Vice President for Campus Services Martha Whitehead Vice President for the Harvard Library Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00