Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Other Drugs Marijuana What is marijuana? Marijuana is the dried flowers, leaves and stems of the Cannabis sativa plant. The main active ingredient in marijuana is THC (delta 9 tetrhydrocannabinol). Marijuana can range from 1% THC to 8%. Hashish can be 7% to 14% THC and hash oil is up to 50% THC. THC is a fat soluble substance and can remain in the lungs and brain tissue for up to 3 weeks. There are over 200 nicknames for marijuana, including pot, herb, mary jane and chronic. How is marijuana used? Marijuana is usually smoked, using a pipe, a bong or by rolling a joint. Blunts are cigars that are emptied of tobacco and refilled with marijuana, sometimes in combination with other drugs. It can also be eaten in food, for example, by baking it in brownies. Eating marijuana will delay the onset of the effects, but they will last longer. Why do people use marijuana? Smoking marijuana can relax a person and elevate their mood. This can be followed by drowsiness and sedation. Other effects include heightened sensory awareness, euphoria, altered perceptions and feeling hungry ("the munchies"). High concentrations of THC may produce a more hallucinogenic response. Are there short-term dangers of smoking marijuana? Discomforts associated with smoking marijuana include dry mouth, dry eyes, increased heart rate and visible signs of intoxication such as bloodshot eyes and puffy eyelids. Other problems include: Impaired short-term memory Difficulty thinking and problem solving Anxiety attacks or feelings of paranoia Impaired muscle coordination and judgment Increased susceptibility to infections Dangerous impairment of driving skills. Studies show that it impairs braking time, attention to traffic signals and other driving behaviors. This impairment can last 12 to 24 hours due to accumulation of marijuana in fatty tissue. Cardiac problems for people with heart disease or high blood pressure, because marijuana increases the heart rate It is virtually impossible to overdose from marijuana, which sets it apart from most drugs. Are there long-term consequences to smoking marijuana? Memory and learning Research shows that regular marijuana use compromises the ability to learn and to remember information by impairing the ability to focus, sustain, and shift attention. One study also found that long-term use reduces the ability to organize and integrate complex information. In addition, marijuana impairs short-term memory and decreases motivation to accomplish tasks, even after the high is over. In one study, even small doses impaired the ability to recall words from a list seen 20 minutes earlier. Mental Illness Marijuana use is associated with increased prevalence of depression, schizophrenia and psychosis. It remains unclear whether marijuana triggers the onset of these illnesses only in vulnerable people or whether it can cause them in people who would not have developed them otherwise. Fertility Long-term marijuana use suppresses the production of hormones that help regulate the reproductive system. For men, this can cause decreased sperm counts and sperm motility and heavy users can experience erectile dysfunction. Women may experience irregular periods from heavy marijuana use. These problems would most likely result in a decreased ability to conceive but not lead to complete infertility. Is marijuana addictive? No one would argue that marijuana is as addictive as alcohol or cocaine. However, it's wrong to say that it is not at all addictive. More and more studies are finding that marijuana has addictive properties. Both animal and human studies show physical and psychological withdrawal symptoms from marijuana, including irritability, restlessness, insomnia, nausea and intense dreams. Tolerance to marijuana also builds up rapidly. Heavy users need 8 times higher doses to get the same effects as infrequent users. For a small percentage of people who use it, marijuana can be highly addictive. It is estimated that 10% to 14% of users will become heavily dependent. In 2006 marijuana was responsible for 16% of all admissions to treatment facilities in the U.S. Because the consequences of marijuana use can be subtle and insidious, it is more difficult to recognize signs of addiction. Cultural and societal beliefs that marijuana cannot be addictive make it less likely for people to seek help or to get support for quitting. How do I recognize a problem with marijuana? Some warning signs are: More frequent use Needing more and more to get the same effect Spending time thinking about using marijuana Spending more money than you have on it Missing class or failing to finish assignments because of marijuana Making new friends who do it and neglecting old friends who don't Finding it's hard to be happy without it Because THC is fat soluble and remains in the body for up to 3 weeks, it's important to remember that withdrawal symptoms might not be felt immediately. If you find that you can't stop using marijuana, then remember, there's help on campus. Is marijuana illegal? Yes, marijuana is illegal and its possession, use, and sale carry prison sentences and fines and disciplinary consequences at Brown. See the Brown University Policy on Drugs in the Student Handbook. What about the medical use of marijuana? Marijuana's ability to enhance appetite has led to its medical use to reduce the physical wasting caused by AIDS and to reduce nausea for chemotherapy patients. Over 10 states have laws that allow patients to use medical marijuana despite the prohibition by federal law. For more information on state and federal laws, go to the Marijuana Policy Project. How do I help a friend who's having trouble with drugs or alcohol? If you are concerned about a friend's drug or alcohol use, this page contains information about different ways to help them. Resources If you or a friend are having trouble with drugs or alcohol, or just have questions, there is help available. Related Links The Good Drugs Guide This British harm-reduction web site provides extensive information on marijuana, including the basics, dangers, debates over legalization, and links. Busted: America’s War on Marijuana This PBS Front-line program goes behind the scenes of America's marijuana industry, examining the production, sale and effort to eradicate the use of this drug. Topics include the criminal justice system, marijuana's treatment in popular culture and efforts to prevent use by teenagers. Online features include interviews, video excerpts and health effects of marijuana. Marijuana Anonymous MA uses the basic 12-step recovery program for people who are addicted to marijuana. Online groups are available, as well as publications, frequently asked questions and 12 questions to determine if marijuana is a problem in your life. The literature section has stories by teens, help for loved ones of marijuana addicts, and the dangers of cross addiction. e-TOKE e-toke is a free, anonymous assessment tool that provides individualized feedback on the role marijuana is playing in your life. You can also see how your use compares with other college students. If you would like to talk to someone about your use, you can call Health Education at 863-2794 for an appointment or click here for other resources. MEDLINEplus Health Information This search page will give you links to marijuana facts, prevention and screening, research, treatment and statistics. Fact sheets available in Spanish. National Institute on Drug Abuse This site has statistics, drug information and recent research reports on marijuana. Online Drug Screening This confidential and anonymous survey gives you feedback about the likely risks of your alcohol and drug use. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment Calling EMS If you are wondering if you should call EMS, you should call EMS. If you are still wondering, click here. Talking to a Friend About Drinking or Drug Use It's not easy to know what to say when you're worried about a friend's drug or alcohol use. Click here to learn what to do and what not to do. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook