Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact Home > About Supporting the Vision Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Columbia Engineering is at the center of an engineering renaissance, evidenced by the strength of our faculty, the quality of our students, our deep collaborations with other schools and disciplines, as well as our powerful community of alumni, parents and friends, and the convergence of resources and opportunities in New York City and around the world. Columbia Engineering for Humanity is a bold and ambitious framework that will amplify our impact and further accelerate the education and research of our school. To achieve this vision, we aspire to create and nurture an ecosystem that attracts the greatest minds and provides them with the resources, facilities, and programs that will accelerate discovery and translate transformational ideas into tangible impact. Our interconnected goals are part of an alighted strategy with The Columbia Commitment campaign. We have made great strides in recent years, placing our school among the top undergraduate and graduate engineering schools nationally and globally. In order to propel Columbia Engineering into its next stage of growth and development, we seek support that will ensure our school expands its leadership in research, education, and innovation. Please join us in creating a sustainable, healthy, secure, connected, and creative humanity. Your support will empower and strengthen our ecosystem of students and faculty as they spearhead a future where engineering plays an essential and transformational role in advances that will benefit global communities for years to come. Columbia Engineering for Humanity. Priorities Through its outstanding educational programs, path-breaking research, entrepreneurial zeal, and interdisciplinary collaboration, Columbia Engineering is training and supporting a new generation of global leaders and innovators. In order to accelerate the School’s growth and development, we have identified three areas where there is a critical need for additional resources. MORE Impact MORE Get Involved MORE Ways to Give MORE Get Involved There are many ways to stay connected to the school regardless of your location. GET INVOLVED Make A Gift There are many ways for you to support research, education, and innovation at Columbia Engineering with gifts of any size. Giving 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact