Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Research and Innovation Week Orientation Professional Development Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog ☰ The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies About Graduate Student Advisory Board Graduate Student Advisory Board The Graduate Student Advisory Board advises the Dean of the Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies on school policies and initiatives. Board members also work closely with the Graduate Student Council in their home school to disseminate information and to collect graduate student concerns and issues to bring to the Dean's attention. The board includes two members each from the Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences, the Lyle School of Engineering, the Meadows School of the Arts, and the Simmons School of Education and Human Development. Graduate Student Advisory Board Members 2021-22 Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Representatives: Christina McConville (Chemistry Ph.D. Program) Liz Thomas (Anthropology Ph.D. Program) Lyle School of Engineering Representatives: Han Gao (Electrical Engineering Ph.D. Program) Elie Salameh (Mechanical Engineering Ph.D. Program) Meadows School of the Arts Representatives: Dani Ezor (Art History Ph.D. Program) Simmons School of Education and Human Development Representatives: Tryna Knox (Education Ph.D. Program) Claire Trotter (Education/Applied Physiology Ph.D. Program) About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share