Skip to main content Iowa State University Office of Admissions Menu Toggle Search Visit Apply My Account Main navigation Admissions Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Graduate Admissions Next Steps / Timeline Financial Aid Request info Contact Us Related Links Nontraditional Nondegree Veterinary Medicine Military Why ISU Academics Academics Academic Programs Colleges Transfer Credit Credit by Exam Orientation Honors Program Learning Communities Apply Visit Related Links Course Equivalency Guides Transfer Plans TRANSIT Supplementary Course List Admissions Partnership Program Destination Iowa State Cost + Aid Campus Living Campus Living Housing ISU Dining Diversity and Inclusion International Students and Scholars Clubs and Organizations Recreation Services Student Health Athletics Apply Visit Related Links Student Leaders Sorority and Fraternity Entertainment Traditions Distinguished Alumni Why ISU Visit Application Application Information Online Application My Account Application Instructions Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Who should apply as a freshman? High school seniors High school students or graduates who earned dual enrollment credit while in high school High school graduates who have never enrolled in college APPLY Application Features Your data is securely stored and transmitted - the web application server encrypts your data when transmitting it and stores the information you enter under the private username and password you create. You can complete the application over multiple sessions from any location. The information you provide on the application form is not provided to the Office of Admissions until you submit and pay for your application. You may set up your account, complete the information on the application form, change the information, and save it without worry of disclosing information until you're ready. No checks to write. You pay your application fee online. Application Instructions Establish your account. Follow the instructions provided on the account creation form and click the 'Create Account' button. Complete the application Select the application type you wish to create and the entry term you plan to enter Iowa State. Click the 'Start New Application' button. Your application may be completed in multiple sessions. To save your work, click on the 'Save' button at the bottom of each form page. To advance page to page within the application, click on the 'Save and Continue' button. The application form requires certain fields be completed before you are allowed to advance to subsequent pages. Follow the instructions provided on the screen to ensure your application information is saved correctly. View activity The view activity page provides you with information about the status of the applications you have created. This page shows you the form type, application type, entry term, last saved date, and status. Application status – Below is a list of statuses assigned to each application within the application system: In progress: The application can be modified and submitted. Unpaid: The application has been completed and is no longer available for editing. Payment is required to submit the application for processing. Once the application has been finalized, it can no longer be modified. Submitted: The application has been completed and is no longer available for editing. Any required payments have been made and the application is now being processed by the Office of Admissions. Expired: The last day to submit an application for this term has passed. Please create a new application for a later term of entry. Finalize and submit your application Review your application information carefully. Once an application has been submitted, it may not be changed. On the last page of the application, you will click on the 'Finalize and Submit' button. Doing so will provide you with a payment page where you may provide your credit card information for the application fee. Your application is not be provided to Iowa State until your application fee is provided and approved. When your application has been successfully submitted, you will receive an email confirmation from the Office of Admissions. Pay your application fee online You may pay your application fee by credit card (VISA, MasterCard, or Discover). Note: Your credit card information is encrypted during transmission from your browser to our server and during payment authorization. Your credit card information is not stored with the Office of Admissions. Close your browser window Close your browser window when you're ready to end your application session. This will clear your password and properly close your secure connection. Printable Application (PDF) Disclosure of your Social Security Number Disclosure of your Social Security Number ("SSN") is requested for the student records system of Iowa State University. Federal law requires that you provide your SSN if you are applying for financial aid. Although an SSN is not required for admission to Iowa State, your failure to provide an SSN may delay the processing of your application. Your SSN is maintained and used by Iowa State for financial aid, internal verification, and administrative purposes, and for reports to Federal and State agencies as required by law. The privacy and confidentiality of your SSN is protected by Federal and State law and Iowa State will not disclose your SSN without your consent for any other purposes except as allowed by law. Frequently Asked Questions Is it true that I can choose to self-report my academic information on my admission application instead of requesting that my high school send an official copy of my transcript? Yes, that's true! Instead of taking the time and trouble to ask your high school to send us an official copy of your transcript, you can simply self-report your GPA, ACT or SAT scores, and core course preparation on your application, and your admission to Iowa State will be based upon this self-reported academic information. Iowa State is test-optional for freshman applicants. Students may choose whether they wish to self-report their ACT/SAT scores when they apply for admission. Why do you give students the opportunity to self-report their academic information? In short, because it provides convenience and efficiency to the application process. Students still enrolled in high school no longer have to request that a transcript be sent when they apply for admission, and high schools no longer have to verify to students and parents that the transcript was sent. Instead of having to wait the normal three-seven weeks for an admissions decision, students who meet all of Iowa State’s admission requirements receive email confirmation of their admission only two business days after they submit their electronic application, and an official admission letter is mailed within three business days. Applicants who don’t automatically meet all of Iowa State’s admission requirements receive an email within two business days indicating their application is being evaluated on an individual basis and they should allow additional time for processing. High schools are required to submit only an official final transcript to Iowa State, so the total number of transcripts they must submit to Iowa State is cut in half. In addition to added convenience and efficiency, this process is much more environmentally friendly as it eliminates the need for thousands of high school transcripts to be mailed to Iowa State and processed by the Office of Admissions. Does this mean Iowa State’s freshman admission requirements have changed? Absolutely not. Students are still held to Iowa State’s normal freshman admission requirements and all students are required to submit an official copy of their final high school transcript. The final transcript is reviewed carefully by the Office of Admissions to verify that the student has met the admission requirements. What happens if I was admitted based on my self-reported academic information, but my final transcript shows I do not meet Iowa State’s freshman admission requirements? Then your offer of admission will be withdrawn. What about my ACT or SAT scores - do they still need to be sent to the Admissions Office? Iowa State is test-optional for freshman applicants. Students may choose whether they wish to self-report their ACT/SAT scores when they apply for admission. Are other types of applicants (e.g., transfer, international, graduate) permitted to self-report their academic information instead of submitting an official transcript? No. This process applies only to U.S. freshman applicants who are still enrolled in high school at the time of application. Iowa State University Office of Admissions Contact Office of Admissions Enrollment Services Center Ames, IA 50011 Call or text: 515-294-5836 Soults Family Visitors Center 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014 Quick Links New Student Programs Counselor Directory Chat with students and staff Request Information Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Analytics Disclaimer Loading...