COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Meet a Shocker: Kaitlyn Larsen November 6, 2020 - Kaitlyn Larsen, from Haysville, chose a career that makes her essential to the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Rathman is one of more than 1,200 students eligible for fall 2020 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Brandyn Rathman Nov. 3, 2020 -- Brandyn Rathman, from Sioux City, Iowa, is excited to start his career in the medical field after graduation. He said he believes his experience at Wichita State University will help him help his patients lead healthy lives. Rathman is one of more than 1,200 students eligible for fall 2020 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Rachit Rajput Rachit Rajput, from Shimla, India, came to Wichita State in 2015 on faith in the engineering program. He leaves with a master’s degree in industrial engineering. Rachit is one of more than 1,200 students eligible for fall 2020 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Inneke Vargas Inneke Vargas, from Houston, appreciates the interdisciplinary approach of her liberal arts degree from Wichita State University. After graduate school, she wants to work on policy changes to help eliminate health disparities. “My research broadly focuses on the effects of mental health stigma, particularly among African Americans, across the lifespan,” she wrote. “More narrowly, I am currently interested in the ways mental health care inequities disproportionately affect minority men during adolescence and very late adulthood.” Meet a Shocker: Andrew Cruz, marketing major and graphic design minor May 18, 2020 - Andrew Cruz will graduate with a Bachelor of Business Administration marketing degree and a minor in graphic design. Meet a Shocker: Rhian Cunningham, graphic design graduate May 14, 2020 -- Rhian Cunningham is as creative as they come, with her constant doodles and calligraphy notes, her personality shines through. Currently, she is an intern in the Office of Strategic Communication where she gains hands-on experience in graphic design. After graduation, she is unsure of her next steps but will spend time figuring out what she hopes to do. Meet a Shocker: McKenzey Bell, filmmaking graduate May 15, 2020 -- McKenzey Bell knows the importance of taking time to work on your goals and chasing after what you want. She is a pro at visual storytelling and is excited to see where her passion for filmmaking takes her in life. Meet a Shocker: Madison McCalla, communication graduate May 15, 2020 -- Madison McCalla knew she could get a great communication degree at Wichita State through the Elliott School of Communication. She made the most of her education by getting involved with a professional student group and stepping out of her comfort zone. And she isn’t going to let COVID-19 get in the way of her career plans. Meet a Shocker: Theresa Le, communication graduate May 14, 2020 -- As a first-generation student from Florida, attending Wichita State was a huge step for Theresa Le. She found the balance and resilience necessary to make her college career successful and now plans to start her own business. Meet a Shocker: Kayla Deines, communication graduate May 14, 2020 -- Kayla Deines has spent her fair share of time in college but it's allowed her to pursue a path she's passionate about. Skilled in marketing, communications and design, Kayla hopes to land a communication job in higher education. Meet a Shocker: Felicia Smith, Bachelor of Social Work May 14, 2020 — With children and two full-time jobs, earning a degree was a herculean task for Felicia Smith. But through intensive time-management, family help, and the support of the Wichita State University community, she achieved her dream. Meet a Shocker: Claudia Rojo, aerospace engineering graduate May 13, 2020 - Claudia Rojo graduates this spring and will begin a graduate research assistantship at the National Institute for Aviation Research while finishing her final season of outdoor track eligibility in 2021. Rojo, like all seniors in spring sports, was granted the option to extend their eligibility after the COVID-19 pandemic cancelled spring sports. In 2019, she finished second in the heptathlon in the American Athletic Conference Outdoor Championships. Meet a Shocker: Carter Bryant, Bachelor of Fine Arts in art history May 12, 2020 —Carter Bryant found his home at Wichita State University’s School of Art, Design and Creative Industries as an art history major. He’s played roles in curating several exhibits throughout the university and the general Wichita artistic community. Meet a Shocker: Abel Barraza, Bachelor of Engineering in mechanical engineering March 12, 2020 — Abel Barraza hasn’t shied away from challenges during his time at Wichita State University. The first-generation college student from Dodge City not only undertook a rigorous curriculum that included fluid mechanics and calculus, but he also served as president of his fraternity during his demanding senior year. Meet a Shocker: Terry Blount, education graduate May 12, 2020 - Terry Blount, 38, is a non-traditional student who is married with two children. He returned to school at Wichita State University nine years ago with the goal of teaching science in middle school. First Previous 2 3 4 5 6 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©