Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search SMU Ignited Leaders Message from the President Building on excellence Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council For more than 100 years, SMU has stood as an institution of national excellence and international renown, a University where the previously impossible becomes possible through daring research and courageous purpose. Our Mustang family – students, families, alumni, faculty, staﬀ and supporters – has propelled us forward, fueling our goal of shaping world changers. You have galvanized us, enabling SMU to attract high-achieving students and innovative faculty, and to adapt to a changing landscape. SMU has sparked a transformation in North Texas, kindling it to become a more vibrant place by improving its business, culture and community. Energized by creative students, ambitious faculty research and partnerships with outside organizations, SMU has helped create a special place whose inﬂuence can be felt across the country and beyond. We are proud of what we have accomplished, and we expect the best is yet to come. We have a vision for what’s next for our University, our city, our region and our world. We know that SMU, as the premier private university in North Texas, is making an impact far beyond what the University’s founders ﬁrst imagined. On this website, you will read about our bold plan for the future and how we will build on our strengths to develop pioneering solutions to the world’s grand challenges by: Empowering outstanding students. Enriching teaching and research. Enhancing campus and community. With your support, we can continue doing what we do best: driving groundbreaking change through our students, faculty and partners. Your support has brought us here, and you will usher us into our future. You are the author of what SMU has become. You have written greatness and you will chart our next path. We invite you to join us in this, our next bold adventure, and do what Mustangs always do: come together to seize opportunities to make the world a better place. R. GERALD TURNER President Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search