Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories New Documentary on Health Disparities Features Columbia Doctor Columbia pediatrician Hetty Cunningham appears in "The Color of Care," a new documentary about racial health disparities and their consequences during the COVID-19 pandemic. Topic Campus News Annual Interprofessional Education Day Includes Focus on Health Equity Interprofessional Education Day this year addressed the question of how health professionals can actively provide antiracist, inclusive, and equitable care through health care teamwork. Topic Campus News Columbia Glaucoma Screening Program Shows the Benefit of Early Detection If untreated, glaucoma can lead to irreversible vision loss. A Columbia screening program is finding more people with the disease than expected. Topic Ophthalmology CUIMC Inclusive Hiring Effort, Project PossABILITY, Receives City Award CUIMC's inclusive hiring program, which connects workers with intellectual or developmental disabilities to job opportunities at the medical center, received a 2022 Customized Employment Award. Topic Campus News Latest News Katrina Armstrong and Anne Taylor: “There’s a broad coalition committed to principles of equity” March 16, 2022 Listen to two CUIMC leaders—Anne Taylor, SVP for faculty affairs, and Katrina Armstrong, chief executive officer—discuss diversity, inclusion, and anti-racism at the medical center. Topic Campus News Break the Bias: A Conversation with Anne Taylor, MD March 7, 2022 For International Women's Day, Taylor discussed progress, mentorship, and the opportunities that lie ahead for a more equitable medical professoriate. Topic Campus News In Responding to COVID-19, CUIMC Rallied Around Community March 4, 2022 When COVID arrived, the medical center partnered with residents, community health workers, and elected officials to meet local needs. Topic Campus News How Columbia Women Are Changing Medicine and Health Care March 1, 2022 Columbia University Irving Medical Center is sharing the stories of some of the many women who are spearheading innovation through research, patient care, and education. Topic Campus News Kenneth A. Forde: An Early Advocate for Cancer Screenings, Champion for Diversity February 25, 2022 As part of its 50th anniversary, Columbia's cancer center examines the legacy of surgeon Kenneth Forde, who applied a strong but gentle approach to enacting change during his longstanding career. Topic Campus News Building Better Representation in Psychiatry’s Ranks February 9, 2022 A Columbia summer program for medical students is working to increase the number of psychiatrists from historically underrepresented groups. Topic Campus News Newly Funded New York City Center Aims to Reduce Health Disparities in Multiple Chronic Diseases February 3, 2022 A grant from the National Institutes of Health will establish a multi-institutional group in New York City to address health disparities in multiple chronic diseases. Topic Campus News Serving the Underserved: Q&A with Dentist George Jenkins February 2, 2022 Columbia’s College of Dental Medicine has a long history of providing dental care to the Northern Manhattan community. Here’s why that matters. Topic Campus News Columbia’s Black Pioneers in Medicine February 2, 2022 From 19th century medical students denied their degrees to today's surgeons, many Black clinicians have connections to Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Topic Campus News CUIMC Honors MLK With Bold Conversations on Race January 14, 2022 At a virtual event honoring the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., senior faculty shared experiences and offered advice for making a difference. Topic Campus News Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top