Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / About / Policies Policies A useful reference outlining the rules and regulations that govern the University. This page links to important Penn policies and compendia of policies in some areas that affect Penn faculty, staff, students, and the community. For information about policies specific to Penn Medicine or one of Penn’s 12 Schools, consult the website of the individual health system or school. University Policies Principles of Responsible Conduct Penn’s underlying expectations for the conduct of all University and Health System activity. Adherence to University Policy Penn’s expectations for employee compliance to laws, policies, and procedures. Non-Retaliation Policy Information about reporting suspected policy non-compliance and about policies prohibiting retaliation against report claimants. Conflict of Interest Extramural and institutional policies on what constitutes an employees’ improper benefit from their position of trust at Penn (for research-specific policies, see below). Use of Penn Name Policies related to the sanctioned use of the University name in official, licensed, and private capacities. EEO and Affirmative Action Penn’s Nondiscrimination Statement and the University’s policy on Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Sexual Misconduct Code of conduct, available resources, and procedures for resolving complaints of sexual harassment within the unit or at the University level. Student and Academic Life The Pennbook A collection of policies related to student life at Penn, including the Code of Academic Integrity and the Code of Student Conduct. Faculty Handbook A set of policies governing faculty life at Penn, including links to policies on frequently searched topics. Policies on Graduate Education University-wide policies for Ph.D. and research master’s programs. Research and Sponsored Programs Human Subjects Research The Penn Institutional Review Board’s Standard Operating Policies manual includes details about informed consent and HIPAA authorization, responsibilities of investigators, and more. Animal Subjects Research Resources include guidelines, policies, and standard operating procedures dictated by Penn’s Animal Care and Use Committee and University Laboratory Animal Resources. Conflict of Interest Find information regarding the University’s Research-Related Financial Conflicts of Interest (FCOI) Program. Sponsored Research Policies Online resources include the Sponsored Projects Handbook; policies related to research, financial operations and sponsors; federal OMB Circulars; and more. Postdoctoral Fellow Policies Resources include Penn’s Policy for Postdoctoral Fellows and Penn’s Policy for the Appointment of Foreign Nationals Under the Postdoctoral Trainee Program. Environmental Health & Radiation Safety Covers policies related to biological safety, chemical waste management, laboratory safety, laser safety, radiation safety, and workplace safety. Research Misconduct Comprehensive policies for faculty and for non-faculty members of Penn’s research community. Patents Penn’s Patent and Tangible Research Property Policy governs the intellectual property created by faculty, employees, students, and guest scholars of the University. International Penn Abroad Resources include academic and financial policies and expectations for student participants and their study abroad experience. International Students and Scholars Find instructions and forms on the full range of requirements for international students and scholars. Register Your Trip It is mandatory for all Penn students and all Penn faculty and staff traveling with Penn students on Penn-affiliated trips to register their international travel. Administrative Human Resources Policy Manual The source for all policies related to employment at Penn, including benefits, compensation, performance, recruitment, sick leave, termination, time off, and more. Financial Policy Manual A reference guide for administrators with financial responsibilities at Penn. The manual delineates responsibility, authority, and accountability in matters such as payroll, gifts, travel, and more. Computing Computing policies and guidelines for each user of the University’s computing resources. Covers topics from mobile devices to networking and security. Privacy Policies and materials to guide faculty, staff, and students who work with personal information. Includes policies on FERPA, SSNs, CCTV, and links to Penn’s Confidential Help and Reporting line. Facilities Management Information on design guidelines and standards for all facilities-related work; safety procedures and protocols; and policies associated with outdoor space, signage, and leasing. Safety and Security Penn policies on weapons and other dangerous articles, fire safety, bicycles, and the use of CCTV cameras for safety and security purposes. If you have any questions or concerns regarding Penn policies, please contact Penn’s Confidential Reporting and Helpline at 215-P-COMPLY (215-726-6759) or visit the 215-P-COMPLY website. Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top