Skip to main content Skip to main content News Contact Lease Space UH Technology Bridge Community The Park Technologies Industry Houston Innovation Community The Park Technologies Industry Houston Innovation News Contact Us Lease Space CONNECTING PEOPLE + IDEAS Get Connected THE SPIRIT OF INNOVATION At the University of Houston, we spur innovation by encouraging the very spark of an idea to the transfer of knowledge and technology. The UH innovation ecosystem has a rich history of advancing Houston’s innovation economy. 0 Nation's top enterpreneurship program 0 STUDENT BUSINESSES STARTED 0 UH SPINOUTS LAUNCHED 0 Among Top 25 Royalty-Earning Universities in the U.S. Explore the Ecosystem UH has fostered a strong entrepreneurial environment that supports new innovation and startup ventures through incubator and accelerator programs and resources. Because of the rapid development across campus and demonstrated excellence in innovation, UH has been designated as an Innovation and Economic Prosperity University. Innovation Center Incubator Labs Office of Technology Transfer and Innovation Student interns & full-time hires Partners Chancellor's Technology Bridging Fund Wolff Center for Entrepreneurship Engineering Innovation and Entrepreneurship Small Business Development Center NSF iCorps Site RED Labs UH Technologies Latest News UH Researchers Plan to Commercialization Seawater Converting Technology Researchers from the Texas Center for Superconductivity at the University of Houston (TcSUH) have developed an nickel and iron-based electrocatalyst that interacts with copper cobalt to create high-performance seawater electrolysis. UH Researchers Named two of "3 Houston Innovators to Know" Hadi Ghasemi of UH Cullen College of Engineering and Rashim Singh of the University of Houston College of Pharmacy were named InnovationMap's "Houston Innovators to Know". InnovationMap OTTI Spotlights UH SBDC with "Launch your Business” Event On April 29, The University of Houston Office of Technology Transfer and Innovation hosted the Launch your Business Zoom event where attendees learned from the UH Small Business Development Center. Maps and Directions Meet the Team The Office of Technology Transfer and Innovation UH Division of Research Tenant Services Sign up to receive notifications about upcoming events and programs HP ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies