Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Career Education Career Education right arrow down arrow Get Experience right arrow down arrow Co-op right arrow down arrow Full-Time Co-op right arrow down arrow Cooperative Education Student Stories Co-op Majors Eligibility Support Working as a Co-op Options within Co-op Part-Time Co-op right arrow down arrow On-Campus Co-op Micro Co-op NEXT Apprenticeship right arrow down arrow For Students For Mid-Career Professionals For Work in Nonprofits Digital Skills Lab Remote Work Lab and Learning Center Go Global right arrow down arrow International Experience Program (IEP) right arrow down arrow Picture Yourself There Student Perspectives International Co-op Program Study Tours Design Your Own: Worldwide Experience Can I Afford to Go Abroad? Explore Healthcare Explore Research right arrow down arrow What Is Research? right arrow down arrow Research Process Presenting and Publishing How to Get Research Experience right arrow down arrow Student-Initiated Contact Mentored Research Programs Funding Course Credit Exploring Research Group Consultations Undergraduate Research Society Grad-Undergrad Research Connections right arrow down arrow How the Program Works Graduate Research Mentor Training Summer Learning Community Undergraduate Scholarly Showcase right arrow down arrow 2022 Presentations 2021 Presentations Research Mentor Awards Proceedings Undergraduate Research Fellowship Faculty and Staff Resources right arrow down arrow Faculty-Supervised Research Collaborate & Innovate right arrow down arrow Recent Projects What Students Say Make a Difference right arrow down arrow Service Learning Co-op National Co-op Ambassador Scholarship Courses right arrow down arrow Professional Development Pre-Health Courses Inquiry to Innovation right arrow down arrow Current Offerings UC Forward Certificates right arrow down arrow Innovation and Commercialization Design Thinking Forces of Change Service Learning Collaboratory Exploring Work Abroad International Study Tours Cybersecurity Study Tour Co-op Course Sequence Career Studio right arrow down arrow Choosing a Career right arrow down arrow Know Yourself Explore Majors and Careers right arrow down arrow What Can I Do with this Major? Informational Interviewing Get Focused Take Action Ways to Get Experience Job Search right arrow down arrow Resume and Curriculum Vitae (CV) right arrow down arrow How to Write a Resume How to Write a Curriculum Vitae (CV) Writing Bullet Points VMock Virtual Resume Assistant Cover Letters Professional Profile right arrow down arrow Professional Portraits Elevator Speech Where to Look for Jobs right arrow down arrow How to Prepare for a Career Fair Avoid Fraudulent Job Postings Prepare for Interviews right arrow down arrow Interview Practice Sample Interview Questions STAR Method Illegal Interview Questions How to Dress for an Interview Negotiate a Job Offer Graduate School Planning right arrow down arrow Research and Evaluate Graduate Programs Application Timeline Entrance Exams Application Essays Paying for Graduate School Handshake right arrow down arrow Handshake Profile Jobs in Handshake Events in Handshake Career Center in Handshake About Us right arrow down arrow Career Coaching Walk-In Career Coaching Career Coaching by Appointment Where We're Located Other UC Career Offices Vendor Inquiries Employers and Partners Events right arrow down arrow Virtual Career Fairs Professional and Technical Career Fair E2C: Engaging Emerging Creatives Undergraduate Scholarly Showcase Healthcare Workforce Diversity Symposium About right arrow down arrow Faculty and Staff Publications right arrow down arrow Post-Graduation Outcomes right arrow down arrow Self-Report Your First Destination Find Us Request a Presentation Vendor Inquiries COVID-19 Updates Home » Campus Life » Career Education Career Education The University of Cincinnati has the oldest and one of the largest cooperative education programs in the world. We invented cooperative education in 1906; each year more than 3,500 students participate in co-op, and our program ranks in the Top 5 nationwide. But we're more than just co-op. We're building on that foundation to make paid, supervised, major-related work experience integral to the education of every baccalaureate student. At the same time, we prepare students for the world of work with professional development courses, coaching and career services. For students, this means graduating with a degree, a resume and a plan for your future. For companies and organizations, this means a wealth of talent is available here and eager to work with you in a variety of traditional and non-traditional arrangements. We'll help you find what works best for you and continue to support you in a long-term relationship with the University. Get Experience Explore Careers Employers and Partners Featured Stories Engineering students on front line to produce electric vehicles March 9, 2022 Three University of Cincinnati engineering students got a chance to see and participate in what could be the wave of the future as part of a four-month co-op experience with Rivian Automotive, an Irvine, California-based electric vehicle automaker. Architecture co-op builds experiences for grad student Anshumi... February 23, 2022 International grad student explains the takeaways of a DAAP co-op experience with architectural firm in downtown Cincinnati. UC’s co-op rises in national rankings September 13, 2021 The University of Cincinnati’s co-op program rose to No. 4 in the U.S. News & World Report’s latest rankings, continuing its historical placement of Top 5 co-op programs in the country. Query for this Latest News How to give a hippo an ultrasound May 26, 2022 University of Cincinnati master's student Julie Barnes works as a veterinarian at the Cincinnati Zoo & Botanical Garden where she recently performed an ultrasound on a hippo. DAAP grad Lee Wilger lands job at Relativity Textiles in... May 26, 2022 Relativity Textiles offers co-op experiences for DAAP students, and Lee Wilger is returning there as an employee. Construction Brothers Podcast: Be a builder, not a broker May 23, 2022 Tim Steigerwald, president of Messer Construction, spoke with the host of Construction Brothers Podcast about improvements in the construction industry and the growing role of co-op. Stegerwald called out UC’s role in co-op, the university is ranked in the top four of schools providing co-op experiences for students nationally. Load More Debug Query for this Request More Information Experience-Based Learning and Career Education Steger Student Life Center P.O. Box 210115 Cincinnati OH 45221-0115 513-556-2667 careereducation@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Experience-Based Learning and Career Education Steger Student Life Center P.O. Box 210115 Cincinnati OH 45221-0115 513-556-2667 careereducation@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top