Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Meadows School of the Arts News and Events Directions & Public Transportation Directions & Public Transportation News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony Download Meadows Events Parking Flyer Free Parking & Public Transportation Visitors are welcome to utilize the Dallas Area Rapid Transit System (DART). Both the Lovers Lane and Mockingbird DART stations are located within one mile of the Meadows School of the Arts. Free parking is available at the Mockingbird DART Station. From the Mockingbird DART Station, visitors may take the Route 768 Mustang Express (view schedule) or the Route 743 Museum Express (view schedule) which drops off and picks up directly at the entrance of the Meadows School. For general information regarding DART, visit the DART website. SMU Parking The Meadows School of the Arts offers FREE parking in several areas. Click here for information. For certain events, parking on Bishop Blvd., is also available. You may call the box office at 24-768-2787(ARTS) to see if Bishop Blvd., parking is available for the specific event you are attending. From U.S. Highway 75 (North Central Expressway) Exit Mockingbird Lane and turn west onto Mockingbird. You will pass the SMU campus and the main entrance into campus on your right (Bishop Blvd.). At the next corner make a right onto Hillcrest Avenue. At the second light, which is the intersection of Hillcrest and Binkley, you will see a parking lot on your right. This is our event lot and the closest place to park for our events. If there is no parking you may go through the lot and exit onto Bishop Blvd., which will provide you access to the free Meadows Museum Garage parking. (Click here to see parking map). From Dallas North Tollway Exit Mockingbird Lane and proceed east to Hillcrest Avenue. Make a left (north) on Hillcrest Avenue. At the second light, which is the intersection of Hillcrest and Binkley, you will see a parking lot on your right. This is our event lot and closest place to park for our events. If there is no parking you may go through the lot and exit onto Bishop Blvd., which will provide you access to the free Meadows Museum Garage parking.(Click here to see parking map). From D/FW International Airport Take the North Exit from the airport to IH-635 (LBJ Freeway). Proceed to U.S. Highway 75 (North Central Expressway) and exit south toward downtown. Proceed about five miles and exit Mockingbird Lane and turn right (west) onto Mockingbird. You will pass the SMU campus and the main entrance into campus on your right (Bishop Blvd.). At the next corner make a right onto Hillcrest Avenue. At the second light, which is the intersection of Hillcrest and Binkley, you will see a parking lot on your right. This is our event lot and closest place to park for our events. If there is no parking you may go through the lot and exit onto Bishop Blvd., which will provide you access to the free Meadows Museum Garage parking.(Click here to see parking map). From Dallas Love Field Airport Exit left (east) from the airport to Mockingbird Lane. Proceed east on Mockingbird for approximately three miles. At the intersection of Hillcrest and Mockingbird, turn left (north) on Hillcrest Avenue. At the second light, which is the intersection of Hillcrest and Binkley, you will see a parking lot on your right. This is our event lot and closest place to park for our events. If there is no parking you may go through the lot and exit onto Bishop Blvd., which will provide you access to the free Meadows Museum Garage parking.(Click here to see parking map). Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search