Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Commencement FAQs Questions? When will the Commencement for the Class of 2020 and 2021 take place? We are excited to celebrate the Classes of 2020 and 2021 in a University-wide Commencement Ceremony on Sunday, May 29, 2022, at 8:00 a.m. (ET). The ceremony will end at approximately 10:30 am (ET). Will there be separate events for the Class of 2020 and the Class of 2021? The Harvard community will come together to celebrate and honor members of the Class of 2020 and the Class of 2021 from across the University in a joint ceremony in Tercentenary Theater. Each school will also host special events for their graduates on their campuses during the weekend of May 28-29. Will the Schools host events in addition to the University-wide ceremony? Each school will host special events for their graduates during the weekend of May 28-29. For more information, visit your School’s website. What time will Harvard Yard open on Sunday, May 29? Harvard Yard gates will open at 6:30 a.m. A ticket will be required to enter Harvard Yard, the site of Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021. While a ticket grants admission into Harvard Yard, it does not guarantee a seat. Seating is available on a first-come basis and cannot be reserved. All persons, bags, and personal items are subject to inspection before entering Harvard Yard. No backpacks of any type or bags larger than 12” x 12”x 12” will be permitted inside the Yard. Strollers are permitted only in the Old Yard and not in Tercentenary Theatre. Will the University-wide Commencement ceremony be live streamed? Yes, the ceremony will be live streamed on the Harvard University website. Additional viewing is available in the Science Center and at most of the undergraduate Houses and Graduate / Professional Schools. The ceremony may also be viewed Comcast 283 in metro Boston. Will there be parking available on campus on Sunday, May 29? All visitors looking for Commencement Day parking, including guests needing accessible parking, should proceed to the Soldiers Field Park Garage on the Harvard Business School Campus, located at 111 Western Avenue in Allston. Signs will be posted directing traffic to Soldiers Field Park Garage or a nearby overflow lot. Please note that all parking is on first-come, first-served basis, and is in satellite parking areas. This parking will be available beginning at 6:00 a.m. Additional information can be found on the University’s Commencement website. Will the Harvard shuttles be running on Sunday, May 29? Shuttles will run between the Soldiers Field Park Garage (details above) to Harvard Square. We will also provide shuttle service from the Radcliff Quad to Harvard Square near the Yard. Shuttle buses will run between 6:00 a.m. and 11:30 p.m. on May 29. All vehicles are fully accessible for guests using wheelchairs and other mobility devices. Additional details on the Harvard shuttle services can be found on the University’s Commencement website. In addition, the University will provide shuttles to the Yard from the following hotels, departing at 6:15 a.m. on Sunday, May 29: Marriott Copley Square, Westin Copley, Liberty Hotel, Row Hotel at Assembly Row, and the AC Marriott Boston North. What accessible services are offered for guests? Harvard University welcomes all graduates and guests with disabilities to participate in the University-wide Commencement on Sunday, May 29. For details on services offered, please visit the “Guests with Disabilities” section of the University’s Commencement website. Do graduates need regalia? We are committed to a ceremony with the pomp and circumstance of a traditional Commencement, including a processional during which graduates will be expected to wear the appropriate regalia. The deadline to order regalia has passed. However, the Harvard COOP will have regalia available for purchase in person on a first-come, first-served basis between May 19 and May 29, or until supplies are gone. Are families and guests allowed to attend? How many tickets will I get? Each graduate will receive up to three guest tickets to the University-wide Commencement ceremony so that family and friends can take part in celebrating the hard work and perseverance of our graduates. The University-wide ceremony will also be livestreamed for family and friends who cannot attend. Will campus housing be available for graduates? Campus housing on the Cambridge campus will be offered to graduates for the nights of Saturday, May 28 and Sunday, May 29. We will endeavor to accommodate all graduates who request housing, but we will be limited by availability and will be unable to guarantee specific locations. As part of the registration process, you will be able to request campus accommodations. All those who receive housing will be notified in early May. Will campus housing be available for graduates’ families/guests? In order to ensure the maximum number of graduates can secure campus housing, the University will not be able to provide campus housing for families and guests. What’s included in campus housing? While staying on campus offers the opportunity to enjoy a convenient location, campus housing does not typically include the same amenities as a hotel room. Though subject to change, you can plan that your room will be equipped with beds, fresh linens, a pillow, fresh towels, and soap. Please note, campus accommodations often have shared bathrooms and may not include air conditioning. What are the other options for housing? We have negotiated group rates at several area hotels, details of which can be found on the Accommodations page. In addition, graduates, families, and guests can find a helpful list of other accommodation options on Harvard’s Commencement website. Will graduates need to cover costs related to the on-campus celebrations? We are thrilled to be able to welcome graduates back to campus with no cost for any of the University or School events related to these celebrations. Will there be COVID protocols to follow while on campus? All visitors to campus including both graduates and their families and guests will be required to follow all state, local, and University policies in place at the time of their visit. Please visit the Commencement website to stay up to date on current protocols. Will vaccination be required to attend or stay in campus housing? The University strongly encourages all guests to be fully vaccinated and boosted (if eligible) and if unvaccinated to complete a COVID-19 (PCR or antigen) test before arriving on campus. However, at this time, proof of vaccination or a negative test will not be required to attend the University-wide celebration or stay in campus housing. What happens if COVID cases increase, a new variant spreads, or there is an on-campus outbreak? Will the ceremony be canceled or become virtual? The health and safety of our community, including these graduates, is paramount. The University will continue to actively monitor public health conditions, but we are confident we can safely celebrate these graduating classes on campus by following COVID protocols. To whom can I direct additional questions or feedback? Please send questions and comments to commencement_20and21@harvard.edu. We will be updating this website and the School websites as plans evolve so please check back regularly. We will also be emailing graduates with updates throughout the coming months as new information becomes available. Learn more about Commencement Ceremonies Visit the Class sites Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00