Open search area Quick Links Home Home Student Guide Time Schedule Registration Academic Calendar Course Catalog Enrollment Confirmation New Undergraduates - New Student Enrollment and Orientation Fee As a new undergraduate, you must accept your offer of admission and pay the nonrefundable New Student Enrollment and Orientation Fee (NSEOF) to confirm your intention to enroll at the University of Washington. If you are unable to pay the New Student Enrollment & Orientation Fee, you may request to defer the cost if you’ve submitted a FAFSA or WASFA and you are eligible for the Pell Grant program or you have an extenuating circumstance that prevents you from paying at this time. Requests are evaluated individually. New Graduate and New Professional Students - Enrollment Confirmation Deposit New graduate students and new students in a professional program are required to confirm his or her intention to enroll by paying a nonrefundable deposit (not required of returning students admitted summer quarter). The deposit is applied toward tuition and fees assessed for the quarter for which the student is determined to be admissible and subsequently enrolls. A student who pays the fee for a given quarter but does not register in that quarter is not entitled to a refund except by petition in the situation listed below. A new or returning matriculated student who is unable to obtain courses required for the completion of the degree or certificate program, or courses which are determined by an appropriate academic adviser to be acceptable alternate courses. A written verification from the appropriate academic adviser must be attached to this petition. Such requests for refund must be submitted by Friday of the second week of the quarter. A new or returning matriculated student who, after meeting with an appropriate academic adviser, determines that the program for which admission was granted differs substantially from what the student was led to expect based upon earlier available information. This petition for refund must be submitted before the student registers for courses and in no case later than the first day of the quarter for which admission has been granted. A written verification from the appropriate academic adviser must be included. A new or returning student who applies by the prescribed deadline for financial aid administered by the University's Office of Student Financial Aid, and who cannot be awarded financial aid adequate to his or her needs as determined by that office, and who is therefore unable to attend the University. This petition and a copy of the Notice of Award and Acceptance must be submitted no later than two weeks after receipt of notice of the financial aid award. A new or returning student who is unable to attend the University because of pregnancy, disability, or death, or because of being called involuntarily into the military service of the United States or into civil duty. Documentation is required. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms