Skip to main content Reporting an Incident or Issue Your Concerns Matter Skip to Section Ombuds General Concerns Student Life & Conduct Academics Health & Safety FAQ IntegrityLine 911 – Emergency Supporting the UCF Community At UCF, we’re committed to creating a welcoming and inclusive environment. That includes making sure you feel safe and supported — physically, mentally and emotionally. If you experience or witness something on campus that doesn’t seem right, we want to know about it. We take each concern seriously because we take your safety seriously. Remember, we’re in this together. Emergency Need immediate assistance? Call 911 in the event of an emergency. The UCF Police Department serves our main and regional campuses, as well as several university-affiliated housing communities. Report an emergency You Have a Concern. Here’s How to Report It. It’s usually best to start by addressing your concern with an appropriate college, department or office administrator. Colleges, departments and offices are often the most familiar with the issues and personnel involved and, therefore, may be best able to assist. If you feel like your concern is not being addressed, or continue to encounter or suspect a safety issue or misconduct, use the information below as a guide to find the various resources and services available to you. Discrimination Do you feel like you’re being discriminated against? Discrimination is the unjust or prejudicial treatment of different categories of people and can take many forms. We want to ensure that everyone learns, works and lives in our community free of discrimination and harassment. Hazing Hazing is an abuse of power or relationships that occurs as part of the joining, maintaining membership or holding a leadership role in an organization or group. It humiliates, degrades or demeans, and can endanger an individual — mentally, physically and/or emotionally. If you have experienced, witnessed or know someone who has been hazed, please report it. Grade Appeals Do you believe your grade was awarded in error or unfairly? A grade appeal helps ensure that your grade is addressed objectively and fairly, and represents your performance in class. Sexual Harassment & Assault Let’s Be Clear, sexual assault, relationship violence, stalking and sexual harassment are never ok. You should feel safe and comfortable where you live and learn. We’re committed to protecting and supporting you. IntegrityLine Have you witnessed unethical behavior by or have a concern with UCF faculty or staff? Ethics involves doing the right thing, even when it’s not required and helps us foster a culture of integrity, trust and respect. Student of Concern Have you noticed a student, classmate or friend who is exhibiting behavior significantly out of character, acting unusual, displaying dangerous behavior or appearing noticeably distressed? Speak up and report it! Discrimination Do you feel like you’re being discriminated against? Discrimination is the unjust or prejudicial treatment of different categories of people and can take many forms. We want to ensure that everyone learns, works and lives in our community free of discrimination and harassment. Hazing Hazing is an abuse of power or relationships that occurs as part of the joining, maintaining membership or holding a leadership role in an organization or group. It humiliates, degrades or demeans, and can endanger an individual — mentally, physically and/or emotionally. If you have experienced, witnessed or know someone who has been hazed, please report it. Grade Appeals Do you believe your grade was awarded in error or unfairly? A grade appeal helps ensure that your grade is addressed objectively and fairly, and represents your performance in class. Sexual Harassment & Assault Let’s Be Clear, sexual assault, relationship violence, stalking and sexual harassment are never ok. You should feel safe and comfortable where you live and learn. We’re committed to protecting and supporting you. IntegrityLine Have you witnessed unethical behavior by or have a concern with UCF faculty or staff? Ethics involves doing the right thing, even when it’s not required and helps us foster a culture of integrity, trust and respect. Student of Concern Have you noticed a student, classmate or friend who is exhibiting behavior significantly out of character, acting unusual, displaying dangerous behavior or appearing noticeably distressed? Speak up and report it! Ombuds Have a concern or just need someone to listen? The Ombuds Office offers a variety of services, from advising you of the appropriate channels available for reporting to providing you with a list of support resources. Makes referrals to individuals who can address your concern Opens avenues of communication and facilitates conversations Assists with problems that have not been resolved by other offices Provides a confidential, safe space to discuss your concern Get support through the Ombuds Office General Concerns As a public research university, it is imperative that we hold ourselves and each other to the highest legal and ethical standards. Whether that’s ensuring we’re compliant with federal and state regulations or acting with the utmost integrity, we aim to foster a culture of personal and social responsibility across all university functions and activities. University Compliance, Ethics, and Risk Oversees compliance with federal and state regulations, university policies, regulations and standards of conduct. Offers advice, guidance and training on ethics, compliance, risk management and accountability. Provides oversight and education on conflicts of interest and offers support and assistance with reporting. Oversees compliance with the youth protection program and provides education and assistance with training and registration. Manages the UCF IntegrityLine, investigates and responds to allegations of employee misconduct. UCF Office of Institutional Equity Investigates complaints of discrimination, discriminatory harassment and retaliation. Disseminates information related to equal opportunity and civil rights laws. Protects the civil rights of the UCF community through proactive outreach, education, and effective response and resolution. Reach out to the Compliance, Ethics and Risk Connect with the Office of Institutional Equity Student Life & Conduct Incidents If someone’s words or actions caused you harm — whether physically or mentally — we’re here to support you and take the necessary steps in preventing this from occurring in the future. We’re committed to fostering a safe, inclusive and welcoming environment for all and will not tolerate harmful behavior. Reach out about student, campus group or organization incidents including, but not limited to: Hazing (endangering, pressuring or demeaning students) Obscene or indecent behavior Alcoholic beverages or controlled substance violation Disruptive conduct If you have experienced or witnessed any harmful matter involving a student, campus group or organization, use these resources for help and support. Learn about hazing and hazing prevention Reach out about student misconduct Find help for sexual harassment & assault Academic Issues & Grading Appeals Any violation of academic misconduct is taken seriously and thoroughly investigated. This helps ensure the integrity of the high academic standards we have set as a campus community. The grade appeals process begins with consulting your instructor. From there, you can appeal to the chair of the department or director of the school that offers the course. In an instance where both of these steps have been exhausted, you may choose to file a report. While academic incidents take many forms, they often involve: Possessing an exam or course-related materials without permission Plagiarizing or fabricating information Lowering of grades due to discrimination Learn about the grade appeal process Health & Safety Concerns During your time at UCF, you or someone you know may experience challenges with academics, finances or personal well-being matters. We have many services available that provide you with the guidance, resources and referrals you need to move forward. Academic distress Bias incidents Homelessness Mental health concerns Financial challenges If you’re experiencing an emergency, please call 911. You may also contact the UCF Police Department for help if you’re on campus or at some university-affiliated housing. Contact the UCF Police Department Get assistance from Student Care Services Learn more about bias and hate incidents Speak with a counselor Frequently Asked Questions Reporting What is the difference between discrimination and harassment? Discrimination occurs when you’ve been treated differently than others because you possess certain characteristics. These characteristics may include race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, marital and parental status, disability, sexual orientation or genetic information. Harassment involves unwelcome conduct and, in some cases, can be unlawful. This can entail something that’s said or written, or even a graphic or physical contact. The person or people committing the offending behavior are deliberate in their actions and create a hostile environment. What is the difference between privacy and confidentiality? Privacy ensures your right to know how your personal information is collected and disclosed. For example, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) protects the privacy of your student records. Confidentiality, on the other hand, means the information you discuss is a secret and it not share with anyone else. What is the difference between a confidential conversation and anonymous report? Confidential conversations are a way for you to safely and confidentially discuss an incident without filing a report. These resources include: Ombuds Office Victim Services UCF Counseling and Psychological Services UCF Student Health Services Let’s Be Clear If after speaking to one of the confidential offices, you’re hesitant to report suspected misconduct through a one of UCF’s central offices, you can reach out to the UCF IntegrityLine anonymously. The internet portal never identifies you and deletes your internet address to ensure complete anonymity. In addition, calls are not tracked or recorded. After contacting the IntegrityLine online or by phone, your report will be sent to University Compliance, Ethics, and Risk that will then review, investigate and respond to your report as discreetly and promptly as possible. What is a responsible employee? A responsible employee is required to report sexual misconduct that has been brought to their attention. Your conversation with a responsible employee is not confidential. These employees typically include faculty, staff, resident assistants, graduate students with classroom responsibilities and any employees identified as Campus Security Authorities. UCF can designate other individuals involved in university-sponsored/related activities as responsible employees on a case-by-case basis. Explore the Prohibition of Discrimination, Harassment and Related Interpersonal Violence policy. What is a confidential employee? A confidential employee will not disclose information from your discussion without your permission. Confidential employees and resources at UCF include: Health Services employees Counseling and Mental Health Services employees Employee Assistance Program employees Ombuds Office employees Victim Services employees Student Legal Services employees Volunteer chaplains What can I do to help if a friend confides in me? There are a number of ways you can help a friend who confides in you. The resources section of this page has information about what’s available on campus, as well as contact information. You may also reach out to the Ombuds Office which is a helpful resource if you’re unsure of which reporting avenue to take. The Ombuds Office is an informal, independent, confidential, neutral office that offers assistance and impartial advice regarding concerns related to UCF. What is a bias incident? A bias incident involves any conduct, speech or expression that’s motivated — whole or in part — by bias or prejudice. Acts of bias are not tolerated at UCF. If you have a concern about a bias incident, please reach out to someone. I’m unsure if something I experienced or observed was bias-related. Should I submit a report? If you’re unsure about a situation, reach out to the Ombuds Office. It provides you with a place to discuss the incident and offers guidance on which reporting avenue that you’ll want to take. The Ombuds Office is an informal, independent, confidential, neutral office that’s available to assist you and provide impartial advice regarding any concerns that you may have related to UCF. Please note, however, that communication with the Ombuds Office does not constitute notice to UCF. Due to its confidential nature, it will not disclose information to the University Compliance, Ethics, and Risk or any other central or investigative office. Instead, you will need to report suspected conduct separately upon determining the options available to you. I’m worried that someone may retaliate against me if I report an incident. How does UCF handle retaliation? If you believe that you’ve been subjected to acts of retaliation, please file a written or verbal complaint with the University Compliance, Ethics and Risk or through the UCF IntegrityLine. The University Compliance, Ethics, and Risk will conduct an investigation and/or contact the appropriate university offices for review. Resources UCF has a number of different resources and services available to help you. Check out some of the ones below to determine which one fits what you’re looking for. Your privacy is important to us. Confidential Victim Services Seek confidential advocacy and support 24/7 if you or someone you know has been impacted by crime, violence or abuse. Call: 407-823-1200 Text: 407-823-6868 victimservices.ucf.edu Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Part of the UCF community, CAPS is a confidential service that provides you with comprehensive psychological services free of charge. 407-823-2811 caps.sdes.ucf.edu Student Health Services (SHS) A confidential service that provides access a variety of high-quality, low-cost primary and specialty care services to stay at your optimum health. 407-823-2701 studenthealth.ucf.edu Ombuds An informal, independent, confidential and neutral office that offers assistance and impartial advice regarding concerns related to UCF. 407-823-6440 ombuds.ucf.edu Non-Confidential Student Care Services A non-confidential service offering guidance and resources if you’re experiencing a distressing situation that’s impacting your academic or personal success. 407-823-5607 scs.sdes.ucf.edu Office of Institutional Equity (OIE) Ensure a living, learning and work environment that is free from discrimination, discriminatory harassment and retaliation. 407-823-1336 oie.ucf.edu Let’s Be Clear This non-confidential university awareness campaign connects individuals who have been subjected to sex discrimination or sexual violence with the Office of Institutional Equity. letsbeclear.ucf.edu University Compliance, Ethics, and Risk University Compliance, Ethics, and Risk provides oversight and non-confidential guidance to universitywide ethics, compliance, and enterprise risk management activities, and fosters a culture that embeds these disciplines in all university functions and activities. 407-823-6263 compliance.ucf.edu Anonymous Just Knights Response Team (JKRT) Reach out if you have experienced or witnessed hurtful actions of bias that have occurred. Reporting through this resource can be anonymous. 407-823-1535 jkrt.sdes.ucf.edu UCF IntegrityLine The UCF IntegrityLine is a secure reporting system that provides individuals who may be reluctant to report suspected misconduct through university administrative or central offices a way to report with complete anonymity. 855-877-6049 compliance.ucf.edu/compliance-helpline Have ideas on how to make this page better? Share your feedback with us. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida