skip to main content MENU URBANA CHICAGO SPRINGFIELD UI HEALTH About Data Directory Initiatives System Offices Search www.uillinois.edu University of Illinois System Home About Data Directory Initiatives System Offices Our Compass Guiding Principles History Land Acknowledgement Mission & Vision Policies Strategic Framework Leadership Board of Trustees Governance Organizational Charts President University Senates Conference Locations University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign University of Illinois Chicago University of Illinois Springfield UI Health Regional Campuses System Offices Discovery Partners Institute Impact Academics Alumni Economic Development Healthcare Initiatives Newsroom Public Engagement FAQ Affordability Applying Budget Data Tuition & Fees University of Illinois System Home About Data Directory Initiatives System Offices Our Compass Guiding Principles History Land Acknowledgement Mission & Vision Policies Strategic Framework Leadership Board of Trustees Governance Organizational Charts President University Senates Conference Locations University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign University of Illinois Chicago University of Illinois Springfield UI Health Regional Campuses System Offices Discovery Partners Institute Impact Academics Alumni Economic Development Healthcare Initiatives Newsroom Public Engagement FAQ Affordability Applying Budget Data Tuition & Fees University of Illinois System Home University of Illinois System News MORE NEWS THREE UNIVERSITIES. ONE SYSTEM. ALTOGETHER EXTRAORDINARY. Fueled by countless supporters and driven by the most talented individuals, we explore further, dive deeper, and reach higher. When you radically rethink potential, the impossible is made possible every day—in a thriving, micro-urban community; in the heart of a big city; and in the state capital. Combined, our three universities and healthcare enterprise bring resources, capabilities, and drive that are greater than the sum of their parts—it is altogether extraordinary. OUR ENROLLMENT EXCELLENCE AT SCALE The University of Illinois System now has 94,750 students across three universities and has surpassed its ambitious goal of topping 93,600 students by the fall of 2021. EXPLORE ACCESS FOR THE UNDERREPRESENTED AT AN ALL-TIME HIGH Our efforts to provide access to more students across the state are producing results, including increasing the number of underrepresented minority students. In the fall of 2021, underrepresented minorities made up 32 percent of all undergraduate students in the U of I System, an all-time high. EXPLORE EXTRAORDINARY REACH From Rockford to Chicago to the Quad Cities, Peoria and the southern tip of Illinois, the University of Illinois System touches virtually every field, forest and city block in our state. In fact, more than half of all students enrolled in a public university in Illinois are enrolled at one of our three universities. We have students from 101 of Illinois' 102 counties, and 80 percent of our undergraduates are in-state students. EXPLORE We have students from 101 of Illinois' 102 counties FINANCIAL AID Our commitment to access provides the opportunity to obtain a life-changing education to more students than ever. To make that possible, our universities are providing a greater share of aid to students than ever before. More than half of the aid provided to our undergraduate students-$258 million in Fiscal Year 2020-comes from our universities. Over the past 10 years, those expenditures have increased 117 percent. Almost two-thirds of our undergraduates pay less than full tuition and fees, and 30% pay nothing at all. Almost two-thirds of our undergraduates pay less than full tuition and fees. 30% 25%Of undergraduate in-state students have their tuition and fees fully covered after aid and waivers. EXPLORE U of I System aid more than doubled over 10 years OUR ALUMNI Pick a spot on the globe, and you'll almost certainly find our alumni. We are more than 810,000 strong, including more than 460,000 in Illinois, and you’ll find us in all 50 states and more than 160 countries. Alumni of the University of Illinois System have won two-dozen Nobel prizes, are finding better ways to feed a growing population, programming supercomputers, breaking new ground in music and the arts, and helping lead societies. Curtis Granderson University of Illinois Chicago Mike Hopkins University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Priyanka Deo University of Illinois Springfield EXPLORE R&D EXPENDITURES Our universities are laboratories for groundbreaking research and are among the most innovative in the world. In 2020, the U of I System was ranked 29th among all worldwide universities for total patents. That research is driven by the investment of more than $1 billion in federal, state and private funding a year. Year in and year out, the federal investment in our research surpasses almost every research institution in the country. EXPLORE Pumped into the Illinois economy per year AN ECONOMIC ENGINE Through its education, research and service, the University of Illinois System is a dynamic driver of the economies of the state of Illinois and the Midwest. Through our universities, hospitals and clinics, research and the companies we help launch, we pump $17.5 billion a year into the state's economy and support 171,000 jobs. And with more than 24,000 new graduates a year, our universities provide a pipeline of well-educated talent for the state's employers. EXPLORE Explore how we make an impact Academic Excellence Research & Discovery Economic Development Public Engagement Health & Healthcare SYSTEM LEADERSHIP & GOVERNANCE Overseeing the University of Illinois System are the Board of Trustees and the U of I President. Along with the chancellor/vice president of each of the universities, the board and president keep the system and its universities competitive, growing, and fully committed to the core missions of education, research, public service, and economic development. President Timothy Killeen Board of Trustees University Senates Conference System Executives The University of Illinois System is the flagship higher education system in the state of Illinois. University of Illinois System 108 Henry Administration Bldg. Urbana, IL 61801 infosource@uillinois.edu Locations Urbana-Champaign Chicago Springfield Regional campuses Online Catalog UI Hospital and Health Sciences System Popular Topics About the System A-to-Z contact directory Employment opportunities Freedom of Information Act requests Make a gift News and media resources System Offices ©2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement and Terms of UseCookie Settings