Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Visit Campus Community Life Visit Campus Explore Columbia Law School and get to know our campus. Take a Tour In light of evolving information about COVID-19 the Columbia University Visitors Center will be closed until further notice. More information on Columbia University's response to coronavirus may be found on the university website. Guided Tours: Register online or at the Visitors Center (Low Library, room 213, Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., except major holidays). This tour is not specific to any academic program and does not include admissions information. Self-Guided Tours: Take a walking tour of the Law School or Columbia University. No registration is required, however, a current Columbia ID is needed to enter all residence halls and libraries except Low Memorial Library. Most academic buildings are open to the public during normal business hours, and you are welcome to explore the outdoor space on campus. To visit the law library, contact the office of the program to which you would like to apply. Getting Here The Law School is easily accessible via public transportation and car. For those visiting from out of town, New York City’s airports and train stations all offer connections to the subway and bus lines servicing Columbia’s campus. Learn more: Click to Open Public Transportation Train service to Manhattan arrives at either Grand Central Station or Penn Station. Bus service to Manhattan arrives at the Port Authority Bus Terminal. Once you are in Manhattan, take public transportation or a taxi to campus. Five bus lines (M4, M5, M11, M60, and M104) and one subway line (the No. 1 local) serve the Columbia neighborhood. The Columbia stop for the buses and the subway is 116th Street. The M60 bus is a direct link between campus and LaGuardia Airport. Maps of bus and subway routes are available from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Click to Open Driving Directions and Parking Find driving directions from points outside the city. Parking You can use any street or metered parking near the Columbia campus (check parking information and traffic advisories from the New York City Department of Transportation) or park in a local garage, including: GGMC Parking Lionsgate: 512 West 112th St. GMC Parking: 532 West 122nd St. ProPark America: 401 West 110th St. ProPark America: 121 West 125th St. Click to Open New York City Airports LaGuardia Airport is the airport closest to Manhattan, and taxi fare to Columbia Law School is approximately $30, depending on traffic. Bus service (the M60 city bus) from LaGuardia Airport to the Law School is also available. John F. Kennedy (JFK) International and Newark Liberty International Airports are slightly farther from Manhattan, and taxi fare to Columbia Law School from either airport is approximately $60 (more during traffic and rush hour). Private bus service to the Port Authority Bus Terminal and to Grand Central Station in Manhattan is available. You can also take the AirTrain monorail service from both JFK and Newark to connect to New York City public transportation. Resources for Prospective Students Tour the Law School J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Interactive Map: Morningside Campus Columbia University Virtual Tour Tour the Law School All News & Stories Tour the Law School All News & Stories Your Campus, Your City Columbia University is home to 40,000-plus students, faculty, and staff from every corner of the globe. Our Morningside Heights campus is a thriving social hub as well as a forum for lively intellectual debate. Learn More Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Students Video A Lawyer’s Responsibility: Class of 2022 Graduates Reflect on Law School and What’s Next Six students look back on their time in law school and share how they think the Class of 2022 will have an impact on the legal profession and the world at large. Students Video Annah Akhoun-Murat ’22 LL.M.: Build a Sustainable Future Students Video Emily L. Drake ’22: Be Prepared and Know When to Ask for Help Students Video Jordan A.J. Jarrett ’22 LL.M.: Use the Law to Make Meaningful Impact Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.