Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Molecular Microbiology and Immunology MMI News Molecular Microbiology and Immunology MMI News Comment on ‘SARS-CoV-2 suppresses anticoagulant and fibrinolytic gene expression in the lung’ Ethan S Fitzgerald and Amanda M Jamieson Revealing spatio-temporal dynamics with long-term trypanosomatid live-cell imaging Richard S. Muniz, Paul C. Campbell, Thomas E. Sladewski, Lars D. Renner, and Christopher L. de Graffenried Lung Epithelial Cell Transcriptional Regulation as a Factor in COVID-19–associated Coagulopathies Ethan S. FitzGerald, Yongzhi Chen, Katherine A. Fitzgerald, and Amanda M. Jamieson This article has been featured in the ATS Journal's June Hilighted Papers by Junior Investigators. The Trypanosoma brucei subpellicular microtubule array is organized into functionally discrete subdomains defined by microtubule associated proteins Amy N. Sinclair, Christine T. Huynh, Thomas E. Sladewski, Jenna L. Zuromski, Amanda E. Ruiz, Christopher L. de Graffenried Sanghyun Lee selected as a recipient for the 2021 Smith Family Awards Program for Excellence in Biomedical Research! Congratulations to Dr. Sanghyun Lee on recieving the 2021 Smith Family Awards Program for Excellence in Biomedical Research for his research project titled "A Focused Approach to Identify Entry Factors for Pathogenic Enteric Viruses Using CRISPR Activation Screening". For the past 29 years, the Smith Family Foundation has been supporting groundbreaking medical research through the Smith Family Awards Program for Excellence in Biomedical Research. Its mission is to launch the careers of newly independent biomedical researchers with the ultimate goal of achieving medical breakthroughs. This award provides $300,000 over three years to support research. Amanda Jamieson awarded the 2021 Dean's Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching, Advising and Mentoring in Biological Sciences! Congratulations to Professor Amanda Jamieson on recieving the 2021 Dean's Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching, Advising, and Mentoring in Biological Sciences! This annual award recognizes a faculty member in the Division of Biology and Medicine for his/her outstanding teaching, advising and mentoring of students in the Undergraduate Divisional programs in the Biological Sciences. Nominees may be recognized for teaching excellence within courses; for advising (freshman, sophomore and especially, concentration advising); other services enhancing service to undergraduates (e.g., participation in special programs, presentations, events, etc.). Additional service/teaching activity is also regarded, such as mentoring directed research and independent studies including thesis and Honors supervision. First Author Kellyanne Duncan: Spatial analysis of gut microbiome reveals a distinct ecological niche associated with the mucus layer Congrats to Kellyanne Duncan, former Pathobiology graduate student and former Vaishnava Lab member, for her recent first author publication! "Spatial analysis of gut microbiome reveals a distinct ecological niche associated with the muscus layer" was published in the February 2021 journal, Gut Microbes. Dr. Duncan is currently a post-doc in the Xavier Lab at the Broad Insitute. Evaluation of the Microbiome in Men Taking Pre-exposure Prophylaxis for HIV Prevention Bryce K. Perler, Elizabeth M. Reinhart, Madeline Montgomery, Michaela Maynard, Jason M. Shapiro, Peter Belenky, & Philip A. Chan The Invariant NKT Cell Response Has Differential Signaling Requirements during Antigen-Dependent and Antigen-Independent Activation Courtney K. Anderson, Shanelle P. Reilly and Lauren Brossay Alternate histories of cytokinesis: lessons from the trypanosomatids Paul C. Campbell, Christopher L. de Graffenried Andrew G. Campbell elected as AAAS fellow Congratulations to Andrew G. Campbell, Brown University Dean of the Graduate School, Professor of Medical Science and IMSD Program Director on being elected AAAS Fellow. Dr. Campbell was elected for research in infectious diseases in neglected populations, administrative leadership, and service to increase the full participation of all in science. AAAS Fellows are elected each year by their peers serving on the Council of AAAS, the organization’s member-run governing body. The title recognizes important contributions to STEM disciplines, including pioneering research, leadership within a given field, teaching and mentoring, fostering collaborations, and advancing public understanding of science. Consumption of a Western-Style Diet Modulates the Response of the Murine Gut Microbiome to Ciprofloxacin Damien J. Cabral, Jenna I. Wurster, Benjamin J. Korry, Swathi Penumutchu, Peter Belenky Lalit Beura named 2020 Searle Scholar Congratulations to Assistant Professor, Lalit Beura, for being one of 15 scientists named as Searle Scholars for 2020 for his research project "Adaptation of resident memory CD8 T lymphocytes in the reproductive mucosa". Beura studies the role played by T-cells in establishing an immune barrier in mucosal surfaces, which are common bacterial points of entry into the body. The Searle Scholars Program makes grants to selected universities and research centers to support the independent research of exceptional young faculty in the biomedical sciences and chemistry who have recently been appointed as assistant professors on a tenure-track appointment. The award provides $300,000 over three years to support research. Reductions in anti-inflammatory gut bacteria are associated with depression in a sample of young adults Richard T. Liu, Aislinn D. Rowan-Nash, Ana E. Sheehan, Rachel F.L. Walsh, Christina M. Sanzari, Benjamin J. Korry, Peter Belenky Electronic Nicotine Delivery System Aerosol-induced Cell Death and Dysfunction in Macrophages and Lung Epithelial Cells Gregory L. Serpa, Nicholas D. Renton, Nari Lee, Meredith J. Crane and Amanda M. Jamieson Competitive Cell Death Interactions in Pulmonary Infection: Host Modulation Versus Pathogen Manipulation Ethan S. Fitzgerald, Nivea F. Luz, and Amanda M. Jamieson Home About Us Faculty Flow Cytometry and Sorting Facility Courses Graduate News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Older News Directions Contact Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box G-B5 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3121 [email protected] MMI Events There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Directory Brown Directory BioMed Faculty Directory Related Links Graduate School Financing & Supporting Living & Resources Resources for Postdocs