Skip to content Facilities Management Submit a Work Order Alerts & Outages About Us Search Campus Life Campus Life Getting to and Around Campus On-Campus Housing 50 Haven Athletic Center Energy & Sustainability Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Student Health on Haven Faculty Club Public Safety Smoke-Free CUIMC On-Campus Housing Apply for On-Campus Housing Prospective Residents Current Residents Our Residences Housing Resources About Us 50 Haven Athletic Center We are open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., Monday through Friday only. Get More Information Facilities Services Facilities Services COVID-19 Submit and Check on Work Orders A-Z of Services Rates for Chargeable Services Resources for Researchers Event Support Moving Offices or Labs Checklist Supported Buildings Capital Infrastructure Other Services at CUIMC Contact Us COVID-19 Facilities Management and Campus Services is taking additional measures around campus to support basic operations. Learn How We Are Protecting the Campus Classroom Resources Classroom Resources Space Reservations Classroom Technology and Equipment Accessibility in the Classroom Student Lockers Training Calendar Contact Us Space Reservations Room Policies and Support List of Available Rooms 25Live Event Scheduler Capital Projects Capital Projects Our Projects Haven Plaza Request a Capital Project CARE Crew For Vendors and Contractors FAQ Contact Us Our Projects We are continuously renovating, building upon, and improving CUIMC's historic campus as a center for excellence and healing. View Our Projects Fire and Life Safety Fire and Life Safety Fire Safety Regulatory Compliance Contractor Safety Accessibility Gender-Neutral Restrooms Asbestos Maintenance Emergency Management Smoke-Free CUIMC FAQ Contact Us Fire Safety Columbia University Irving Medical Center's fire safety team keeps our community safe from fire. Learn About Fire Safety You are here Home > Facilities Services > COVID-19 > On-Campus Housing Resources COVID-19 Spring 2022 CUIMC Updates Building-Specific Enhancements Commuting Resources Contractor and Vendor Guidelines General Facilities Enhancements On-Campus Dining Options On-Campus Housing Resources Submit and Check on Work Orders A-Z of Services Rates for Chargeable Services Resources for Researchers Event Support Moving Offices or Labs Checklist Supported Buildings Capital Infrastructure Other Services at CUIMC Contact Us Campus Operations Facilities Engineering Space Planning Strategic Communications On-Campus Housing Resources On-campus housing is available for eligible CUIMC students for the 2021-2022 academic year. We encourage our residents to increase the frequency of cleaning their apartments, including any common area spaces such as kitchens and bathrooms. Additionally, we are prepared to support the needs of any residents who may become ill by providing separate quarantine accommodations. Email the Office of Housing Services Fall 2021 Updates updated August 10, 2021 Building Entries and Lobbies All students and guests are required to wear a face covering when entering all CUIMC buildings, including each residential building. Face coverings are available at each front desk if you forget your own. Residents and guests are encouraged to utilize discretion when using the elevators if they are at full capacity. Please allow extra time to use the elevators if you need to wait for the next available elevator with less people. If you are able to use the stairs, please do so. Door attendants and public safety officers are available at each of our residential buildings, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. If you need assistance, please maintain an appropriate physical distance from the staff. Floor markings have been placed on the floor to indicate where to stand while you receive service Custodial Service Enhancements Using best practices and industry standards, our custodial team enhanced its routine cleaning services to allow for increased frequency and additional cleaning. The Office of Housing Services installed hand sanitizer dispensers in all lobbies and security desks. Dedicated custodial staff members are assigned to focus on increased frequencies of cleaning and disinfecting high-touch points within public spaces. Custodial staff members have increased the patrolling and maintenance of public restrooms to ensure soap dispensers are full to support frequent hand washing and facilities are regularly disinfected. Custodial staff also will ensure sanitary facilities remain operational and stocked at all times and provide additional soap, paper towels, and hand sanitizer when needed. Additionally, Office of Housing Services custodial managers worked with Environmental Health & Safety and using other industry standards to review custodial operations. Some staff modifications include: Staggering shift times and breaks to accommodate proper physical distancing requirements. Increasing staff training on enhanced cleaning and disinfecting procedures. Providing additional times for custodians to clean their hands on the job. Lounge Access Common area lounges throughout our residential buildings will reopen for the fall 2021 semester. We ask that students maintain physical distance while in the lounges and wear face coverings while together. Mailroom and Deliveries Residents who retrieve their mail from the Office of Housing Services/50 Haven Ave. can pick up their mail during normal office hours: Monday to Friday: 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. While the mailroom continues to be open for business, mailroom staff will be practicing physical distancing: One mail clerk will be available in the office to assist individuals. When arriving to the mailroom, please knock on the door to announce yourself and stand behind the yellow line while corresponding with the staff / picking up your package(s). Hand sanitizer is available at the office for your use. We encourage individuals to regularly retrieve their mail and consider switching their paper mail to electronic mail wherever possible. Maintenance Requests Residents are encouraged to submit their work orders online if a maintenance concern needs our attention. Our mechanics will be wearing proper PPE (face covering, gloves, and/or face shields and shoe coverings) when they enter your apartment/bedroom. Work orders will continue to be completed in approximately 24 to 48 hours after being submitting. Residential Guests Residents will only be able to host up to two guests for no more than five consecutive nights within a 30-day period. Please refer to the on-campus housing guest policy to review it in its entirety. Residents can request a guest pass by logging into the Housing Portal and completing the guest/visitor form. Columbia University Irving Medical Center Submit a Work Order Sign Up for Alerts Campus Map How Are We Doing? Contact Us CUIMC Facilities Management and Campus Services 650 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top