Completion of Self-Quarantine / Isolation  - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to COVID-19 Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search COVID-19 Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Guidelines & Protocols Face Coverings on Campus Potential Exposure to Coronavirus COVID-19 Diagnosis Completion of Self-Quarantine / Isolation Campus Prevention Travel Guidelines Event Guidelines Campus Cleaning Protocols COVID-19 Information Coronavirus Symptoms Positive Case Reporting On-Campus Testing COVID-19 Vaccine Information Communications FAQs UH Home COVID-19 Guidelines & Protocols Completion of Self-Quarantine/Isolation Guidelines & Protocols Face Coverings on Campus Potential Exposure to Coronavirus COVID-19 Diagnosis Campus Cleaning & Safety Practices Completion of Self-Quarantine/Isolation Campus Prevention Travel Guidelines Event Guidelines Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis/Symptoms Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus Inquiries: Inquiries regarding a positive case or exposure: UH COVID-19 Case Support Helpdesk 832-84C-OVID or 832-842-6843 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday covid19coordinator@uh.edu Completion of Self-Quarantine / Isolation Self-quarantine is a practice used to keep someone who might have been exposed to COVID-19 away from others. It helps prevent spread of disease that can occur before a person knows they are sick or if they are infected with the virus without feeling symptoms. Isolation is used to separate people with confirmed COVID-19 or for individuals that are exhibiting symptoms (e.g. fever or chills, shortness of breath, congestion) of COVID-19 from those without COVID-19. People who are in isolation should stay home until it’s safe for them to be around others. If you have been self-quarantined or self-isolated, you must be approved to return to campus before resuming your normal school, work and related activities. To do so, complete the form Request to Return to Campus. Your request to return will be evaluated based upon which of these circumstances describes your situation: Ending isolation for people who had COVID-19 and had symptoms If you had COVID-19 and had symptoms, isolate for at least 5 days. To calculate your 5-day isolation period, day 0 is your first day of symptoms. Day 1 is the first full day after your symptoms developed. You can leave isolation after 5 full days. You can end isolation after 5 full days if you are fever-free for 24 hours without the use of fever-reducing medication and your other symptoms have improved (Loss of taste and smell may persist for weeks or months after recovery and need not delay the end of isolation). Per the recommendation of the CDC, continue to wear a mask around others for 5 additional days. Ending isolation for people who tested positive for COVID-19 but had no symptom If you test positive for COVID-19 and never develop symptoms, isolate for at least 5 days. Day 0 is the day of your positive viral test (based on the date you were tested) and day 1 is the first full day after the specimen was collected for your positive test. You can leave isolation after 5 full days. If you continue to have no symptoms, you can end isolation after at least 5 days. Per the recommendation of the CDC, you should continue to wear a well-fitting mask around others at home and in public until day 10 (day 6 through day 10). If you develop symptoms after testing positive, your 5-day isolation period should start over. Day 0 is your first day of symptoms. Follow the recommendations above for ending isolation for people who had COVID-19 and had symptoms. Ending quarantine for people that were exposed to someone with COVID-19 Stay home and away from other people for at least 5 days (day 0 through day 5) after your last contact with a person who has COVID-19. The date of your exposure is considered day 0. Per the recommendation of the CDC, wear a mask around others for 10 days. Test on day 5, if possible. If you develop symptoms get a test and stay home. As a reminder, when you have completed your self-quarantine/isolation complete the form Request to Return to Campus Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus COVID-19 Inquiries Teach Remotely Deliver your classes online. Learn About Teaching Online >> Technology Guide for Faculty >> Learn Remotely Attend classes online. Learn About Learning Online >> Technology Guide for Students >> Do You Need a Laptop? >> Work Remotely Make a flexible workplace arrangement. COVID-19 Telecommuting Form >> Technology Guide for Staff >> Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies