Skip to main content Skip to main content My Account My Account Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Libraries Find & Borrow Research & Teaching Locations & Collections Visit SMU Libraries About Get Help Find & Borrow Find Books Journals & Newspapers Articles Films Music Scores & Recordings Borrow & Request Checkout & Renew Interlibrary Loan Request a Purchase Guest Services Alumni Services Research Card Research & Teaching Scholarship & Publishing GIS@SMU SMU Scholar Research Data Digital Scholarship Scholarly Impact & Publishing Copyright Teaching Support Library Materials for Courses Classroom Instruction Assignment Design Online Guides & Tutorials Locations & Collections Libraries Bridwell Library Business Library DeGolyer Library Fondren Library Hamon Arts Library Underwood Law Library Fort Burgwin Library Exhibits & Digital Collections Campus Exhibits Online Exhibits Digital Collections Special Collections & Archives Visit Visit Hours Maps & Parking Technology & Printing Policies Accessibility Spaces Places to Study Graduate Student Spaces Lockers Class & Event Spaces About About Us Staff Directory Dean's Office Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Accessibility Faculty & Student Awards Join Us Staff & Student Employment Internships Student Advisory Board Friends of SMU Libraries Connect with Us News Events Social Media Contact Us Get Help Ask Us (email, chat, text, call) Research Guides by Discipline How Do I . . . ? Guides Find Your Librarian Attend Workshops Writing Support ☰ Bridwell Library Special Collections Center for Methodist Studies Center for Methodist Studies The Center for Methodist Studies at Bridwell Library was established in 1984 to encourage research, study, and reflection upon the Methodist movement, including the sources that influenced its origin, the forces that shaped its development, and the features that determine its character and influence. To foster these goals, the Center sponsors and supports a variety of activities, including Bridwell fellowships, archives, resources and exhibitions. Featured Collections Our Special Collections has nearly all of the printed works of John Wesley (1703-91), the founder of Methodism.  Other works by Charles Wesley and other Methodist religious and historical figures are present in first and early editions.  We also hold a copy of John Wesley's Instructions for Christians, printed in Bristol by W. Pine in Wine-street, 1772. Letters and Documents The Library has more than 4,000 letters and documents by significant historical leaders including  John Wesley  Charles Wesley George Whitefield Selina Hastings, Countess of Huntingdon Thomas Haweis Francis Asbury  Sixteenth- through eighteenth-century holdings that support the study of the early Methodist movement include works on English church history, theology, liturgy, hymnology, religious polemic, and philosophy.  British and American nineteenth-century religious imprints document the history and development of Methodism.  Additional resources include books collected by Frederick D. Leete and William C. Martin by and about Methodist bishops, a representative collection of hymnbooks published by various Methodist denominations, denominational records, and periodicals. Special Collections Using the Collections Archives Bibles & Torahs Fine Press & Artist Books Center for Methodist Studies Collection Development Policy Related Bridwell Fellowships Digital Collections Methodist Studies Research Guide Online Exhibitions Maps & Directions | Contact Us | Feedback Accessibility | Legal Disclosures © SMU Libraries, PO Box 750135, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share