COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Upward Bound Wichita Prep Section Menu Upward Bound Wichita Prep Home About Upward Bound Wichita Prep Upward Bound History Upward Bound Wichita Prep Program Information Join Upward Bound Information For Current Students Financial Aid / Scholarships & College Scholarships National TRIO Day Upward Bound Wichita Prep Staff Contact Upward Bound Wichita Prep Program Information Who We Are Upward Bound Wichita Prep provides limited-income and potential first-generation college students with the opportunity to improve their academic, social and personal skills while preparing for a post-secondary education. The program is available to 75 freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors from USD 259 (Wichita). Once selected, students may continue in the program through the summer following their high school graduation. The program consist of both an academic year and a summer residential component with each serving to motivate and encourage students to successfully complete high school and attend a post-secondary institution. However, in order for students to maximize the benefit of the program, they are highly encouraged to attend both components. Read more Learn More Today About Upward Bound Program Information History of Upward Bound Contact Us Join Upward Bound Today! UBWP Student Application Contact Us Employment Application Employment Application Contact Us Academic Year What We Offer To Our Students one-on-one tutoring in academic subjects career and college exploration college campus visits ACT preparation financial aid application assistance student leadership conferences social and cultural programs participation in National TRIO Day biweekly Saturday tutoring sessions guest speakers community-service projects “Upward Bound gave me a sense of community, and gave me access to on campus connects. Upward Bound was like a big family. Every Summer I loved the fact that we always had the opportunities to learn about things that we could not take in the school district at the time. When I was a bridge student I was glad to have to the experience of being a college student in the summer before the fall. I had the chance to learn about how to time manage efficiently, learn more about scholarships and loan opportunities, and so much more! I thank Upward Bound for allowing me to be in the program.” Layla Berry Class of 2017 Summer Program What We Offer To Our Students courses to ensure students complete a solid pre-college curriculum (English, US History, US Government, Algebra, Geometry, Algebra 2, Pre-Calculus, Chemistry or Physics, Performing Arts, Computer Technology, Career Exploration, Financial Literacy, and other courses that ensure students are ready for college. Intensive eight-week Collegiate Transition Program. This program pays tuition for 6-8 hours of college courses at Wichitat State. Students live in University housing on the WSU campus. a college environment for participants five to eight weeks on the Wichita State University campus academic instruction tutoring post-secondary admissions advising Wednesday night guest speakers exposure to cultural events 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©