Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU Human Resources Search Career Opportunities Student Employment Benefits AIM Well Title - IX Job Titles & Salary Info Diversity Workday Resources Select Web or PeopleWebPeople Search Mission Vision Career Opportunities Provide Your Feedback Contact Human Resources Career Opportunities Student Employment Benefits AIM Well Title - IX Job Titles & Salary Info Diversity Workday Resources Human Resources Human ResourcesThe Human Resources Department of Texas A&M University at Galveston. Spotlight Link 1 Mission Spotlight Link 2 Vision Spotlight Link 3 Career Opportunities Spotlight Link 4 Provide Your Feedback Spotlight Link 5 Contact Mission The Office of Human Resources supports the University through the development and administration of quality human resources systems, programs and services designed to enhance the work environment and increase organizational effectiveness. Working together in a spirit of continuous improvement and collaboration, we seek effective and workable solutions that meet the needs of the campus community while anticipating the challenges presented by a constantly changing world. COVID - 19 Information COVID - 19 Information TAMUG Coronavirus Update Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA) Travel Reporting Portal Supervisor Tracking Form Who We Are Performance Evaluation Learn more about Performance Evaluation TAMUG Staff Council Learn more about TAMUG Staff Council Vision To provide a human resources function that is creative, customer focused, quality driven, and highly effective toward the pursuit of an exceptional student centered and diverse workforce. CAREER OPPORTUNITIES Be the Best Howdy and thank you for your interest in a career with Texas A&M University at Galveston. We are committed to attracting and retaining a talented workforce to support our unified purpose of transforming lives through teaching, research, and service. Our professors and courses prepare students for careers in research, conservation, consultation, academia, and education, as well as the option to pursue careers in the veterinarian and medical fields. Come and be a Part of the Aggieland by the Sea! Learn More about Learn more about Job Opportunities WE ARE HERE TO HELP! The HR team is committed to providing excellent service. Please share your comments, suggestions or evaluation of your experience with HR by clicking on the FEEDBACK button below. Your comments are appreciated and strictly confidential. Click Here to Provide Feedback Office hours: Monday - Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Phone: 409-740-4532 Fax: 409-740-5005 E-mail: hr@tamug.edu Mailing Address: P. O. Box 1675, Bldg. 3035, Suite 115, Mitchell Campus, Galveston, TX 77553 Contact Our Staff Back to topBack to top © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675, Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway, Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road, Galveston, TX 77554 Site Policies Back to top