Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Pediatrics Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Campus News What to do while waiting for COVID vaccines for kids under 5 It’s still important to protect your children and the people around them to prevent hospitalization and COVID’s worst outcomes. Topic Public Health How Parents Can Manage the Baby Formula Shortage Columbia pediatrician Lauren Levine shares her insights on resources to try, ways to plan, and what never to do. How to teach a child to swallow a pill The advanced form of drinking required to swallow a pill is a skill to acquire like any other. Topic General Medicine Latest News New Study Identifies Gaps in Emergency Care for Youth in Crisis By Brenda Lange April 5, 2022 New survey reveals that pediatric emergency departments need more guidance to help children and adolescents with mental health crises. Topic Mental Health How old is too old to see a pediatrician? March 10, 2022 Tips from a primary care physician to determine the age or moment when a child should graduate out of pediatric care and how to find an adult doctor. Topic General Medicine The Kids are Not All Right March 4, 2022 Children were spared the worst of COVID-19 early on, but they are now suffering psychological consequences from the pandemic’s social upheaval. Here’s what parents and educators can do. Topic Infectious Diseases Study Suggests How Post-COVID Syndrome, MIS-C, Gets Started in Children March 4, 2022 New insights by Columbia researchers into MIS-C, a rare but serious complication of COVID in children, may lead to faster diagnosis and better treatment. Topic COVID-19 Lumps and Bumps in Kids: When to Worry   February 25, 2022 Not every bump on a child’s body is a cause for concern. A guide to know when to call your doctor and when to stay home.   Topic Campus News We need to know more about long COVID in kids. February 10, 2022 Columbia researchers could receive up to $9.4 million to learn about long COVID in children and young adults as part of NIH’s REsearching COVID to Enhance Recovery (RECOVER) initiative.   Topic COVID-19 Is it safe for my child to return to play after a COVID infection?  February 7, 2022 When can a child return to gym class and organized sports after a COVID infection? Columbia University's pediatric cardiologists have guidance. Topic Campus News How to get your baby sleeping through the night  February 4, 2022 Getting a baby on an overnight sleep schedule can seem like an impossible dream. But it can be achieved in three days. And you can start tonight. The only obstacle is you.   Babies Born During Pandemic’s First Year Score Slightly Lower on a Developmental Screening Test January 4, 2022 Babies born during the pandemic’s first year—even to moms who did not have COVID during pregnancy—scored slightly lower on a screening test of social and motor skills compared to pre-pandemic babies. Topic Campus News Inside the Successful Separation Surgery of Conjoined Twins December 10, 2021 Alusine and Isatu Jalloh traveled 4,300 miles to give their girls a chance for a better life. At Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital, a team of Columbia surgeons successfully separated the twins. Topic Surgery Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top