Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Theology Department Menu Main Nav Theology Department Theology Department Contact Back Back Close About Overview Mission Statement Contact Giving Multimedia News & Notes Duffy Lectures Recently Published Books People Overview Faculty Openings Office Hours Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Core in Theology Course Levels Theta Alpha Kappa Thesis Guidelines Graduate Overview Joint M.A. Philosophy & Theology Ph.D. Current Grads Student Profiles Theo Grad Student Assoc Resources Dissertations/Placements Areas of Study Overview Biblical Studies Historical Theology/History of Christianity Systematic Theology Theological Ethics Comparative Theology CT Undergraduate Program CT Doctoral Program CT Seminar Lectures and Conferences Interreligious Dialogue Courses Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Theology Home Undergraduate Major Undergraduate Major Minor Core in Theology Course Levels Theta Alpha Kappa Thesis Guidelines Major in Theology The curriculum for Theology majors incorporates both structure and flexibility. Majors take a combination of essential, required courses and electives from within and outside the Department of Theology. Students outside of the College of Arts and Science can also major in Theology. Programs are designed in consultation with the Director of Undergraduate Studies and the student's Theology faculty advisor. Students majoring in theology must choose between two tracks: the Standard Theology Major or Honors Theology Major. Standard Theology Major Honors Theology Major The Standard Theology Major (30 hours) is relatively unstructured and flexible, easily tailored to various motivations and goals for theological study and adaptable to the diverse paths and timetables by which students come to the major. It offers a theological enrichment and complement to a student’s BC education, through the following requirements: Theology Core (2 courses; 6 credits) Majors Course: THEO2001 Tradition and Traditions (1 course; 3 credits) Majors Course: THEO2002 Trajectories in Contemporary Theology (1 course; 3 credits) Electives (6 courses; 18 credits)* *2 courses/6 credits from another discipline (including the first major) may also count toward the Standard Theology or Honors Theology majors, provided that they have sufficient theological relevance as determined by the Director of Undergraduate Studies. The Department's membership in the Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium (BTI) allows advanced Theology majors to cross-register into some 7,000 courses taught by 150 faculty members at eight other BTI schools. Students thus have access to the resources of one of the world's great centers of theological study. Honors Theology Major The Honors Theology Major (36 hours) is designed for Theology as a first major, especially for students with an interest in further study of theology or related fields. Both rigorous and comprehensive, it provides an integrated introduction to the discipline and a broad foundation for further study. With its comprehensive distribution requirements across all areas, it exposes students to the entire breadth of the theological discipline. With increased credit hours and an optional thesis, it is capacious enough for students to focus on a particular sub-discipline in which to pursue and demonstrate theological excellence. As an Honors Program it would also allow students to be recognized for their achievement, both within and outside the university, thus facilitating admission to the next level of study. Students are expected to maintain a 3.5 GPA within the major. Requirements Theology Core (2 courses; 6 credits): Students must fulfill their normal Theology Core requirements with either (A or B): A. One semester of Christian Theology: THEO1401 Engaging Catholicism THEO1402 God, Self, and Society CT-themed Enduring Questions/Complex Problems And one semester of Sacred Texts and Traditions from the following: THEO1430 Buddhism and Christianity in Dialogue THEO1431 Islam and Christianity in Dialogue THEO1432 Hinduism and Christianity in Dialogue THEO1433 Chinese Religions and Christianity in Dialogue THEO1434 Judaism and Christianity in Dialogue STT-themed Enduring Questions/Complex Problems (NOTE: Honors Majors may not fulfill their STT core requirement with THEO1420, THEO1421, or THEO1422) B. Perspectives or PULSE. Scripture Sequence (2 courses; 6 credits): Students must complete both THEO1420 The Everlasting Covenant: The Hebrew Bible and THEO1421 Inscribing the Word: The New Testament. Alternatively, students may complete THEO1422 The Sacred Page and an additional Scripture elective (level II or above) with the undergraduate director’s approval. Majors Course: THEO2001 Tradition and Traditions” (1 course; 3 credits) Majors Course: THEO2002 Trajectories in Contemporary Theology” (1 course; 3 credits) Honors Electives (6 courses; 18 credits), including an optional Honors Thesis (6 or 12 credits).* At least two of these electives should be level 3 or above. Students, with the guidance of their advisor, should make sure their program of study addresses each of the general subject areas (Bible, History, Systematics, Ethics, Comparative Theology) covered by the department's faculty Students, with the guidance of their advisor, should endeavor to make sure their program of study addresses each of the theology sub-disciplines (i.e., Bible, History, Systematics, Ethics, Comparative Theology) covered by the department's faculty. *2 courses/6 credits from another discipline (including the first major) may also count toward the Standard Theology or Honors Theology majors, provided that they have sufficient theological relevance as determined by the Director of Undergraduate Studies. Guidelines for Theology Majors Who Entered the University before AY2022-2023 In light of the changes to the honors theology major that take effect beginning in the Fall of 2022 and that the previous required courses (THEO3577 Conciliar Traditions and THEO3330 Majors Seminar) will no longer be offered, students who began the major before the Fall of 2022 should note the following guidance: Students who have completed neither THEO3577 Conciliar Traditions nor THEO3330 Majors Seminar will need to complete both THEO2001 Tradition and Traditions and THEO2002 Trajectories in Contemporary Theology to complete the theology major for graduation. Students who have already completed both THEO3577 Conciliar Traditions and THEO3330 Majors Seminar will not need to complete either THEO2001 Tradition and Traditions or THEO2002 Trajectories in Contemporary Theology. Furthermore, such students may not enroll in THEO2001 for elective credit. As a general, but imperfect, guideline for the purposes of theology major credit fulfillment, consider THEO3577 Conciliar Traditions ≈ THEO2001 Tradition and Traditions, and THEO3330 Majors Seminar ≈ THEO2002 Trajectories in Contemporary Theology. Thus: Students who have completed THEO3577 Conciliar Traditions but not THEO3330 Majors Seminar will not need to complete THEO2001 Tradition and Traditions, nor may they enroll in THEO2001 Tradition and Traditions for elective credit. But such students must complete THEO2002 Trajectories in Contemporary Theology (unless given permission by the Director of Undergraduate Studies). Students who have completed THEO3330 Majors Seminar but not THEO3577 Conciliar Traditions will not need to complete THEO2002 Trajectories in Contemporary Theology. But such students must complete THEO2001 Tradition and Traditions. Do not hesitate to reach out to the Director of Undergraduate Studies if you have questions or concerns! Back To Top Back To Top Theology Department Stokes 310N 617-552-3880 Facebook Twitter Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to Theology Faculty Openings Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College