COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Anthropology, Minor MinorAnthropology All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Anthropology WSU's minor in anthropology will increase your understanding of humankind, its societies, diversity, history and origins. The minor can benefit any major and is particularly useful for majors related to criminal justice, health care and the social sciences, such as psychology and sociology. Learn how anthropology is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Matt Gush Anthropology faculty facilitate a diverse range of applied learning opportunities for anthropology students, such as ongoing archaeological research in southern Kansas. Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Anthropology student makes big discovery at ancient battle site Anthropology students have the opportunity to search for historic artifacts. In 2017, student Mitchell Young discovered a horseshoe nail that was more than 400 years old. He made the discovery while working with professor Donald Blakeslee at the archaeological site of the long-lost city Etzanoa, the known location of a 1601 Spanish and Native American battle near Arkansas City, Kansas. Curriculum The minor consists of 15 credit hours. You'll first learn the basics of biological and cultural anthropology—and get an introduction to archaeology. In addition, you'll also take six credit hours of upper-division courses. View the curriculum Careers From the lab to the field, anthropologists are found working in diverse settings within the areas of education, government, public health, social services, foreign service, museums, law enforcement and more. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Anthropology History Art History Sociology Geology Ethnic Studies 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©