By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Groups & Activities Student Organizations More from this Section U100 University Union Student Association Greek Life Student Organizations Life and learning happen inside the classroom—and out! Syracuse University is home to more than 300 extracurricular groups, so you'll never run out of ways to live and learn. Whether you’ve got a passion for politics, a shine for Shakespeare, or you’re just looking for a fun and interesting way to spend your leisure time, student organizations are a great way to get involved. There are currently more than 300 recognized student organizations on campus and they cover every interest you can think of—academic, cultural, political, professional, recreational, and more. And if you don’t find an organization that suits your interests, you can even start your own! Undergraduate organizations Graduate organizations Office of Student Activities The Office of Student Activities is where you'll find student organizations you can join, information on who they are and when they meet, and events for you to browse. Graduate Organizations Expand your education and social network by joining a graduate-specific student organization. If you enroll as a graduate student, you will automatically be a member of the Graduate Student Organization (GSO). The GSO offers you social opportunities, and facilitates connections to services all over campus, including: Subsidized Student Legal Services , which offers free legal counsel on issues ranging from lease reviews to moving violations, and partner with many other services on campus. Subsidized tuition at the Early Education and Child Care Center and Bernice Wright Nursery School, providing lower cost childcare for graduate students with families. Expanded programming with Career Services and the Future Professoriate Program, providing additional workshops and panels to help you make the most of graduate school, both while you’re here and on the job market. Travel Grant funding, as well as funding for Special Programming events throughout the year, which are put on by and for graduate students and the greater SU community. The Inn Complete, a graduate student pub with a unique atmosphere, variety of games, and entertainment. In partnership with the GSO for nearly two decades, this is a hidden hot spot and social point for all graduate students. Subsidized trips with Outdoor Adventure, ranging from a few hours to a few days of adventure and education. Free beginning- and end-of-year picnics, beer tastings, wine tastings, and many more opportunities to meet your fellow grad students. Related Pages Office of Student Activities This is your gateway to social activities, programs, and events that are geared to enhance your education and fulfill your inner need to be active in the community. Student Involvement Fair This event is reserved for Recognized Student Organizations as a way to showcase their involvement on campus and recruit potential new members. Student-Run Media Student-run media is more than just an opportunity for budding journalists to hone their craft. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy