Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Bands Menu Main Nav BC Bands Contact Us Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Sebastian Bonaiuto David P. Healey, Ph.D. Kara Robbins Tim Leonelli Karen Sayward Brian Shanbrun Andre Sonner Band Alumni Rental and Repairs Ensembles Overview Marching Band University Wind Ensemble BC bOp! Jazz Ensemble Symphonic Band: SymBa Pep Band Dance Team Sights & Sounds Get Involved Contact Us Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close University Wind Ensemble Home Ensembles University Wind Ensemble Ensembles Marching Band University Wind Ensemble BC bOp! Jazz Ensemble Symphonic Band: SymBa Pep Band Dance Team Continue to express your love of music with The University Wind Ensemble! This ensemble provides you with the opportunity to perform the finest and most challenging traditional and contemporary wind and percussion literature by the finest composers. The typical University Wind Ensemble (UWE) member is a highly-motivated student for whom making music is a personal priority. The UWE performs six concerts each year, including the annual Bands of the Beanpot with Boston University, Harvard University, and Northeastern University, plus a Christmas Concert and a chamber music concert during the Annual Boston College Arts Festival. In addition to musical excellence, the University Wind Ensemble is committed to building community and social cohesion. As a new member, you will be assigned a buddy who helps you navigate the year with the ensemble as well as your transition to college. UWE also hosts BBQs, Coffee Dates, and other social activities. UWE members receive a small scholarship and free private lessons. Rehearsals are Mondays from 5:15–6:30 p.m. and Wednesdays from 4:15–6:30 p.m.. Membership in the UWE is by audition or invitation of the Conductor. Contact Seb Bonaiuto Conductor For more information, email bonaiuto@bc.ed Register Events Calendar 2021-2022 Auditions Mandatory Reading Session Wednesday, September 1 from 4:30 - 6:30 p.m. Individual Auditions Tuesday, September 7 from 10:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. (Specific time chosen at the Reading Session) Audition music includes excerpts that are distributed at the Reading Session plus sight reading. A prepared piece is not necessary. All auditions are held in the Band Room in Conte Forum, Gate C. Frequently Asked Questions What is the audition process? The audition process for the University Wind Ensemble consists of a reading session and an individual audition. The reading session is just like a typical rehearsal where everyone plays together. Everyone who is interested in auditioning is required to attend the reading session. The audition music is distributed at the reading session and is for the student to take to practice for the individual audition. The individual audition is scheduled by each student for a time of their choice. At the individual audition, the student plays the audition excerpt distributed at the reading session and will also play a few short sight-reading etudes. What should I prepare for the audition? There is nothing to prepare in advance of the audition. The audition music will be distributed at the reading session. Students will take the music with them to practice for the individual audition. The audition music consists of an excerpt from a piece which we will play at the first concert and a short sight-reading etude. What is the time commitment? The University Wind Ensemble rehearses on Mondays from 5:15 pm to 6:30 pm and Wednesdays from 4:15 pm to 6:30 pm. In addition, each section will schedule a one-hour section rehearsal at a time when everyone in the section is available. Every member of the University Wind Ensemble receives free private lessons. Full ensemble rehearsals, section rehearsals and lessons add up to a total of 4.5 hours per week. Members are also expected to practice outside of rehearsals to prepare the ensemble music. Individual practice time will vary for each member. When are rehearsals? The University Wind Ensemble full ensemble rehearsals are scheduled for Mondays from 5:15 to 6:30 pm and Wednesdays from 4:15 pm to 6:30 pm. In addition, each section will schedule a one-hour section rehearsal at a time when everyone in the section is available. When completing your class schedule, you should not schedule a class during the full rehearsal times (Mondays from 5:15 to 6:30 pm and Wednesdays from 4:15 to 6:30 pm). Scholarships Every member of the UWE is budgeted to receive an achievement scholarship. First year members receive $500 Second year members receive $750 Third year members receive $1,000 Fourth year members receive $2,000 This schedule is intended to recognize the value of experience in the ensemble Scholarships are credited to the student's account at the close of the fall semester and at the close of the spring semester. When and where are concerts typically held? The UWE typically performs five concerts per year; three in the fall semester and two in the spring semester. Four of the concerts take place on campus. One concert takes place at one of a number of Boston-area universities (Harvard, Boston University or Northeastern University). The UWE also performs annually at the Boston College Arts Festival. I do not own an instrument. Can I loan one from the Bands Program? Yes. The Boston College Bands Program maintains an inventory of high-quality instruments that we loan to students who play in our ensembles at no cost. Contact the Bands Office to arrange an instrument loan. What is the concert attire? Women: Plain, black, floor to mid-calf length dress with full or 3⁄4 length sleeves and black shoes OR Black top with long or 3⁄4 length sleeves and a black floor to mid-calf skirt OR Black top with long or 3/4 length sleeves and black, full-length dress slacks (no black jeans) Black shoes and black or neutral hose Women should ask if they are uncertain about the concert attire they are planning. Men: Black tuxedo or black suit with matching jacket and trousers White dress shirt (not button down collar) – clean and pressed Black socks and black dress shoes Black bow tie Suspenders are permitted, but must be either black or white Sebastian Bonaiuto, the first full-time director of the BC Bands, conducts the University Wind Ensemble. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Bands Program Conte Forum 213 617-552-3018 bands@bc.edu About Ensembles Sights & Sounds Get Involved Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College