Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Undergraduate Admissions Menu Search TTU Undergraduate Admissions Information For Admitted Students Congratulations on your admission to Texas Tech University! We're here to help you with the next steps to becoming a Red Raider! Attend an Event Next Steps Checklist Attend an admitted student event! As an admitted student to Texas Tech University, we've planned events for you to connect with Texas Tech. Meet current students, representatives from Financial Aid & Scholarships, Housing, your Academic College and more! We look forward to meeting you. Click below to view our events for admitted students! Admitted Student Events As one of our admitted students, it's time to celebrate your future, have some fun and meet other future Red Raiders from your hometown! We invite you to join us for a special event in your honor. Click on the event name below to register! Corpus Christi Admitted Student Dinner Thursday, May 5, 2022 Luciano's Italian Restaurant, Corpus Christi, TX 6:00 - 8:00 p.m. Connect Tech Experience the friendliness and spirit of Raiderland during one of these special visit days just for admitted students. After this experience, you'll never be more certain about your decision to be a Red Raider. Click on the date to register! Registration Closed Visit Campus Anytime is the perfect time to see a campus that novelists and journalists have hailed as one of the most beautiful in the nation! We provide opportunities throughout the year for you to visit campus. Meet our students. Hear their stories. Find out why they love Texas Tech and why you will too! REGISTER Take these next steps! Now that you've been admitted, there are a few important steps to make it official and ensure that you're ready for your first day of classes at Texas Tech. For a personalized checklist of next steps, click below to log in to your Admitted Student Tasklist. Admitted Student Tasklist Select each option below for detailed instructions. 1. Create your eRaider Account Your eRaider username and access code were provided to you on the email you received notifying you of your acceptance. Go to eraider.ttu.edu to activate and manage your account. If you forgot your username or password, go to eraider.ttu.edu and follow the steps to obtain your username or reset your password. If you are locked out of your account or cannot login for any other reason, contact IT Help Central at (806) 742-4357 (HELP). Your eRaider credentials will allow you to access any student portal. You will use this account throughout your time as a student at Texas Tech. Make sure to keep up with your password and follow the prompt to reset your password every three months. 2. Check your TTU email at least once a week It is important to check your TTU email frequently as all other departments on campus will contact you through your TTU email. This will help you stay informed about financial aid, scholarships, events, important reminders, and more. Go to mail.ttu.edu to log in with your eRaider credentials. If you are unsure of your email address, you can find it at eraider.ttu.edu. If you have additional questions, contact IT Help Central at (806) 742-4357 (HELP). Add your TTU email account to your iPhone or Android to make it easy to stay informed. 3. Apply for Financial Aid & Scholarships To be considered for financial aid and some scholarships, you must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). The FAFSA opens on October 1st of your senior year. You are encouraged to submit the FAFSA to Texas Tech as soon as possible by entering the TTU school code (003644). The priority deadline for financial aid is January 15th. The Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) is available for all non-US citizens who are Texas residents. The TASFA opens October 1st of your senior year at collegeforalltexans.com. The priority deadline is January 15th. If you are experiencing financial hardships within the last year, click here to learn how Texas Tech can assist you further. 4. Register for Red Raider Orientation Red Raider Orientation (RRO) is required for all incoming students attending classes on the main campus. Registration for RRO opens in November. Spots are filled on a first come, first serve basis. To see available dates for your major, click below and log in using your eRaider credentials. During the registration steps, make sure you verify that your major is correct. Register for RRO 5. Select on-campus housing and meal plan All incoming students with less than 30 credit hours, post-high school graduation, are required to live on campus. Housing registration opens in December. You can choose from traditional, suite, apartment or pod style within our 19 residence halls across campus. Spaces are filled on a first come, first serve basis. Visit housing.ttu.edu to make your housing arrangement. 6. View and accept your scholarships and financial aid Sign into raiderlink.ttu.edu. Click on the MyTech tab and choose View/Accept Aid Package under the Student Financial Aid & Scholarships menu. Select the Aid Year and click on the Terms & Conditions tab and accept the Terms & Conditions. Then click on View/Accept Aid tab. Thank you letters must also be submitted to fully accept the award(s). 7. Submit your immunization records Visit the Immunization Record Upload Center to submit your meningitis records. If you are requesting records from a physician, have your physician fax it to (806) 743-2122. There is a registration hold on your account until this requirement is fulfilled. 8. Submit your final transcript A final high school transcript that is official and shows a graduation date will be required upon graduation. This transcript should be sent by your high school to the address below. Undergraduate Admissions Box 45005 Lubbock, TX 79409 For Transfer Students Final college transcripts for all institutions that you have attended will be required. College transcripts must be official and include grades from your most recent semester. While high school transcripts are not required, we recommend that you submit yours for advising purposes as some high school credits may impact course selection at Texas Tech University. Transcripts should be sent to Box 45005, Lubbock, TX 79409 or through an electronic transcript service to admissions.transcripts@ttu.edu. 9. Check your registration holds An important part of Red Raider Orientation is meeting your academic advisor and registering for classes. However, before you can register for classes during orientation, you must clear any registration holds. Learn about where to see your holds and actions to take. If you have questions or need assistance, feel free to contact your admissions counselor. Undergraduate Admissions Like Undergraduate Admissions on FacebookLike Undergraduate Admissions on Facebook Follow Undergraduate Admissions on twitterFollow Undergraduate Admissions on twitter Follow Undergraduate Admissions on InstagramFollow Undergraduate Admissions on Instagram Address Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-1480 Email admissions@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 5, 2022 11:37 AM Undergraduate Admissions Admission Undergraduate Admissions Admission Back Become a Red Raider Undergraduate Admissions Admission Become a Red Raider Back I'm Admitted I’m a High School Student I’m a Transfer Student I’m a Former Tech Student I’m an International Student My Students Want to be Red Raiders Admission Resources Undergraduate Admissions Admission Admission Resources Back En Español Find my Counselor Important Dates Other Admission Residency Determination Resources Request Information Academics Undergraduate Admissions Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Admissions Academics Academics Back Areas of Study Majors A-Z Colleges Online and Regional Programs Enrichment Undergraduate Admissions Academics Enrichment Back Undergraduate Research Study Abroad Honors College Preparation for Success Explore Undergraduate Admissions Academics Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Chat with Current Students Campus Tours & Events Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Back Schedule a Tour Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Schedule a Tour Back Campus Tours Large Group Tours Contact Us Attend an Event Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Attend an Event Back On-Campus Events Regional Events Explore Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Explore Back Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Campus Life Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Back Live Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Live Back Campus Experience Dining Housing Safety Connect Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Connect Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Spirit & Traditions Student Organizations Recreation Explore Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Chat with Current Students Cost & Aid Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Back Find Value at Texas Tech Financial Aid Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Net Cost Calculator Important Dates Financial Aid Forms Scholarships Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Scholarships Back For Incoming Freshmen For Incoming Transfers Frequently Asked Questions Explore Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index