Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] Charter Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers About» Letter from the Chair What is Mechanical Engineering? Academics» Doctoral Program Masters Program Undergraduate Program Teaching Laboratories Research» Biomechanics and Mechanics of Materials Control, Robotics, Design, and Manufacturing Energy, Fluid Mechanics, and Heat/Mass Transfer MEMS and Nanotechnology Biological Engineering and Biotechnology Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Careers» Alumni Students Employers People News Bulletin External Advisory Board Mechanical Engineering Mechanical Engineering Faculty Research Mechanical Engineering Faculty Research Welcome! The Department of Mechanical Engineering works to advance practical solutions that improve health, safety, and quality of life. Join us as we address the most important needs of society through rich and versatile discovery and scholarship. Learn More Faculty Department faculty members are outstanding instructors and recognized experts in mechanical engineering, who bring their passion for innovative research, original thinking, and scholarship into the classroom. They are deeply invested in inspiring, teaching, and mentoring students. Faculty Directory Research The Department of Mechanical Engineering is home to such diverse research activities as biomechanics, mechanics of materials, fluid mechanics, heat transfer, control and robotics, manufacturing, energy systems, MEMS, and nanotechnology. Learn More News » In the Media Quantum Q&A With Postdoc Chiara Trovatello More May 18 2022 | Columbia | Quantum Initiative Yevgeniy Yesilevskiy Receives Presidential Award for Outstanding Teaching More May 18 2022 Meet Columbia Engineering’s 2022 Valedictorian and Salutatorian Ahmet Cem Karadeniz and Maya Venkatraman speak about life at Columbia Engineering More May 06 2022 | By Allison Elliott These Educators Received a Presidential Teaching Award This Year. Their Students Explain Why. More May 04 2022 Mechanical Engineering at Columbia Runtime 3:45 The department is home to such diverse research activities as biomechanics, mechanics of materials, fluid mechanics, heat transfer, control and robotics, manufacturing, energy systems, MEMS, and nanotechnology. Our faculty members have distinguished themselves internationally through a wide-ranging array of groundbreaking research areas and activities, including: robotics, smart machines, nanomaterials, morphogenesis and tissue development, and sustainable systems. Mechanical Engineering at Columbia Runtime 3:45 The department is home to such diverse research activities as biomechanics, mechanics of materials, fluid mechanics, heat transfer, control and robotics, manufacturing, energy systems, MEMS, and nanotechnology. Our faculty members have distinguished themselves internationally through a wide-ranging array of groundbreaking research areas and activities, including: robotics, smart machines, nanomaterials, morphogenesis and tissue development, and sustainable systems. Engineering For Humanity Campaign Runtime 1:20 Our vision—Columbia Engineering for Humanity—sets a bold path for a sustainable, healthy, secure, connected, and creative humanity. It is exemplified by the pioneering work our faculty and students are doing across departments and disciplines, in partnership with sister schools, institutes, government, and industry. We have never been more optimistic about the role engineering can play in the service of society and in bringing those advances to the many challenges facing our world. See the impact Columbia Engineering is having today. Soundtrack by $3.33 Art of Engineering: Freshman Introduction Runtime 4:07 In the first year, Columbia Engineering students take The Art of Engineering, a hands-on design course that introduces scientific concepts re-framed in engineering terms and introduces them to five major areas of technical inquiry: engineering, mathematics, physics, chemistry, and computer science. In this course, students see how their high school science and math knowledge can be applied in an engineering context to solve real world problems through classroom presentations and participation in an in-depth, hands-on project. Along the way, guest lecturers discuss social implications of technology, entrepreneurship, project management, and other important nontechnical issues affecting the practicing engineer. Shape Shifters: Inside Karen Kasza’s Living Materials Lab Runtime 0:29 Karen Kasza, Clare Boothe Luce Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, won the prestigeous NSF Early Career award for her proposal on “Biophysical Mechanisms Underlying the Generation of Tissue Structure and Mechanics during Drosophila Development.” Kasza, who joined the School in 2016, uses approaches from engineering, biology, and physics to understand and control how cells self-organize into functional tissues with precise mechanical and structural properties. She is particularly focused on discovering fundamental physical and biological mechanisms that underlie tissue morphogenesis—how shape and form are generated in biological materials. Because many genes and cell behaviors are shared by fruit flies and humans, she is using Drosophila (the fruit fly) as the model organism in these studies. 500 W. 120th Steet #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University sitemap