Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU Texas A&M Maritime Academy Search Prospective Cadets Training at Sea Cadet Resources About Us Contact Us Select Web or PeopleWebPeople Search Texas A&M Maritime Academy Cadet Programs Joining the Academy Texas A&M Maritime Academy Prospective Cadets Training at Sea Cadet Resources About Us Contact Us Texas A&M Maritime Academy Prospective Cadets Spotlight Link 1 Texas A&M Maritime Academy Spotlight Link 2 Cadet Programs Spotlight Link 3 Joining the Academy A College Education with a Unique Experience The Texas A&M Maritime Academy is a highly specialized maritime training and education program embedded within Texas A&M University at Galveston. It is one of seven maritime academies in the United States and the only one located on the Gulf of Mexico. The mission of the Texas A&M Maritime Academy is to provide the maritime industries of the State of Texas and the United States with highly trained and professional U.S. Coast Guard licensed Merchant Officers (deck/engine) to serve on ocean-going and inland waterways vessels. To meet this mission, the Texas A&M Maritime Academy includes a Corps of Cadets. Academic Programs Cadets seeking the Texas A&M Maritime Academy U.S. Merchant Marine License Option (LO) may choose to major in Marine Transportation, Marine Engineering Technology, Marine Biology License Option, Marine Sciences License Option, and the Masters of Maritime Administration and Logistics. Navy ROTC Cadets may choose any major offered at Texas A&M University at Galveston. For those students who already have a Bachelor's degree, we also offer all graduate programs with the License Option. Military Obligations Cadets who are seeking the U.S. Merchant Marine Licensing Option (LO) do not have a military obligation. LO Cadets may apply for the Strategic Sealift Midshipman Program (SSMP) which provides financial benefits in college and an obligation to commission into the U.S. Navy Reserve after graduation. NROTC Cadets compete for scholarships and enter a contractual agreement to serve active duty in the U.S. Navy upon graduation. Cadet Programs Cadets at Texas A&M Maritime Academy participate in one of three programs. They are License Option, NROTC, and Drill & Ceremonies. The below sections detail each of the different programs. License Option (LO) License Option (LO) License Option cadets fall under one of two categories: Deck or Engine. Deck Cadets are majors in Marine Transportation, Marine Sciences, Marine Biology, or any of the graduate programs. Deck Cadets take courses in Navigation and Seamanship. Upon graduation, deck cadets will have earned their Third Mate Unlimited Tonnage license signifying their ability to work on the bridge of any size ship as a Third Mate. Engine Cadets are majors in Marine Engineering Technology. Engine Cadets take courses in naval architecture, marine applications of electrical engineering, and thermodynamics. Upon graduation, engine cadets will have earned their Third Assistant Engineer Unlimited Horsepower license signifying their ability to work in the engine room of any size ship as a Third Assistant Engineer. All license option cadets complete three sea terms. These sea terms are normally completed in the summers. The first and third sea terms are completed on board a training ship operated by Texas A&M Maritime Academy. The second may be either on a training ship or a commercial vessel. License Option cadets also have the option to join the Strategic Sealift Midshipman Program (SSMP) and seek a commission in the Naval Reserves upon graduation. This program operates alongside the NROTC unit and is expected to participate in NROTC events. More information regarding SSMP can be found under the NROTC header. Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC) Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC) As a member of the NROTC/SSMP program, students learn firsthand the roles and missions of the Navy team. In addition, the focus on academics, leadership development, and personal fitness prepares students for success in a very dynamic and highly competitive work environment. For those pursuing an Active Duty commission in the Navy, students participate in rewarding training opportunities with Navy units in both the U.S. and overseas. NROTC students fly with Navy pilots, embark on ships and submarines, and work with Special Operations units. For those pursuing a Reserve commission in the Navy via the SSMP program, students work to earn their U.S. Merchant Marine License and complete training at sea through the Maritime Academy during Summer Sea Terms. For those looking for a challenging and rewarding experience join NROTC or SSMP at Texas Maritime Academy. Drill & Ceremonies (D&C) Drill & Ceremonies (D&C) Drill & Ceremonies cadets choose to join the Corps of Cadets. They elect to participate in the regimented lifestyle of the Corps to build comradery and grow through leadership experience. Cadets in the Drill & Ceremonies program participate without seeking a Coast Guard license or obligation of military service. These cadets may study any non-license option major. Students who are looking to transfer or change campuses to College Station, may participate in the Galveston Corps of Cadets through this program. Joining the Academy Students wishing to join the Texas A&M Maritime Academy should follow the steps laid out below in the Admissions Process section. For questions regarding admission to Texas A&M University at Galveston please contact admissions@tamug.edu. For questions regarding admission to Texas A&M Maritime Academy please contact tamma@tamug.edu. For questions about cadet life, including O-Week and Uniforms, please contact corps@tamug.edu. Application Process Apply to the University Apply to the University Admission into the Texas A&M Maritime Academy requires admission into Texas A&M University at Galveston. You may complete the admissions application at goapplytexas.org. If you are applying as License Option, you must major in Marine Transportation, Marine Biology, Marine Engineering Technology or Marine Sciences, or any Graduate Studies-LO Program. NROTC applicants can major in any course of study. Apply to Texas A&M Maritime Academy Apply to Texas A&M Maritime Academy Submit an Application for the Texas A&M Maritime Academy. Those applying for the NROTC or SSMP programs must also submit: Authorization for the Release of Records and Information Form NROTC College Program Application. Prospective cadets must first be accepted into TAMUG before they can be accepted into the Texas A&M Maritime Academy, regardless of program. Those applying to the graduate program should visit the graduate studies website. Get a Physical Get a Physical All Texas A&M Maritime Academy Cadets are required to complete a Merchant Mariner physical. Merchant Mariner Physical Examination Form NOTE: Cadets participating in NROTC/SSMP will receive a DODMERB physical at a later date. The following vaccinations are required for License Option cadets prior to sailing. Dip-tetanus1 Hep-A (2 series) Hep-B (3 series) Varicella TB skin test Polio MMR Meningitis Tetanus should be within the last 10 years TB skin test within the last year Apply for a TWIC Apply for a TWIC The Transportation Worker Identification Card (TWIC) is required for Cadets in a License Option program. To apply for a TWIC, visit the Transportation Security Administration's website and follow the instructions listed under the "Apply" Section. Drill and Ceremonies Cadets and NROTC Midshipmen not participating in the Strategic Sealift Midshipmen Program are not required to obtain a TWIC. Apply for Cadet Housing Apply for Cadet Housing All Cadets are required to live in TAMMA Hall (unless approved for off-campus housing). Final approval to live off-campus is determined by the Director of Campus Living & Learning. You must submit an online housing application to be assigned to TAMMA Hall. Cadets who meet the following criteria may submit a written request via email to the Office of the Commandant for consideration to live off-campus. These cadets will be assigned to a company during O-Week and will remain in that company and participate in all Corps activities through the completion of their first semester. Assignment to Victor Company is a privilege earned based on an end of semester review by the Office of the Commandant. Married and/or residing with dependents in the Galveston County area; or 25 years of age or older before the first day of classes for the semester of entry; or Off-campus housing may be considered by the Commandant to those individuals who are veterans or prior service members. Requests should be submitted via email to the Office of the Commandant with the cadet's DD-214. Off-campus housing requests should be submitted to corpsinfo@tamug.edu. More information about housing can be found at https://www.tamug.edu/cll/ Attend New Student Conference Attend New Student Conference Register for and attend New Student Conference. Incoming cadets register for classes at New Student Conference. All cadets must register for ZOPT 100 Corps Activity. NROTC/SSMP cadets must register for ZOPT 100 NROTC License Option cadets must register for ZOPT 300 Deck or Engine depending on their license program. All new cadets must register for CLGV 001 O-WEEK. Information about New Student Conference can be found here. Attend Howdy Week & SALT Camp Attend Howdy Week & SALT Camp Register for and attend Howdy Week & SALT Camp. Cadets should plan to attend Howdy Week 1 and SALT Camp 2 for the Fall 2022 semester. Find information about Howdy Week & SALT Camp here. Attend Cadet Orientation Week (O-Week) Attend Cadet Orientation Week (O-Week) Fall 2022 O-Week will be August 14 - August 19. Prior to the beginning of their first semester, all new Cadets entering TAMMA, regardless of program, attend Orientation Week (O-Week). Under the guidance of the Commandant, the Corps of Cadets cadet leadership plans and executes O-Week to introduce each new member to the Corps’ routines and traditions. Cadets also learn military bearing and customs, basic seamanship, engineering and nautical science skills. O-Week training includes, military formations, marching to class and meals, team-building exercises, hands-on seamanship training, and other training to enable new members to hit the decks running when the entire Corps returns for the semester. CLICK HERE for more information about O-Week. © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675, Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway, Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road, Galveston, TX 77554 Site Policies Back to top