Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Forms and Guidelines How to Certify Your Meningitis Decision How to Certify Your Meningitis Decision February 16, 2022 Please watch the video below for step-by-step instructions for certifying your meningitis decision (and upload documentation if you indicate that you have received the meningitis vaccine, MenACWY). Go to the Patient Portal and log in with your UNI. Select "Medical Clearances" from the left-hand menu. Select "Update" next to Meningococcal ACWY. Review the information about Meningococcal Meningitis. Once you have reviewed the information, click the button to acknowledge reviewing the information about Meningococcal Meningitis. In the next section, select the option that reflects your decision about being vaccinated against meningitis. Click "Submit Final" when complete. If you certify that you have received the MenACWY vaccine within the past 10 years, you must: Click "Update" next to Meningococcal ACWY and enter the dates of when you received the vaccine, and Click "Upload" next to Upload Immunization Files to upload proof of vaccination (such as WHO booklet or documentation from physician/pharmacy, etc.) for your submission to be considered complete. How to certify your meningitis decision Document Categories Guidelines Document Topics Immunization Compliance Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close