The Division of Disability Resources & Educational Services College of Applied Health Sciences at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign My Quick Links You have no saved Quick Links Top Menu About History Mission Confidentiality Staff Alumni Grievances Resources for Faculty/Staff with Disabilities Knowledge Center Strategies Research Links of interest Inclusion Disability Allyship Empathic Modeling/Disability Simulation Disability Allyship Resources Contact Search Enter your search terms Disability Resources and Educational Services Services and Resources Academic Accommodations and Supports(Empowered Learning) Academic Accommodations Career Supports Instructor Information Strategies GAAD Accessible IT Group Assistive Technology Campus Tutoring Psychological and Neuropsychological Assessment Supports for Students with Autism Living Accommodations(Empowered Living) Beckwith Residential Support Services at Nugent Hall Getting Around(Empowered Mobility) Buses Parking Facility & Environmental Concerns ADA Accessibility Web Map Health(Empowered Health) Durable Medical Vendors Local Hospitals and Clinics Mental Health Resources Physical Therapy and Fitness SEXABILITY Sexuality Resources Sexuality and Healthy Relationships Campus Life(Empowered Play) Campus Venues and Community DRES/DSO Achievement and Leadership Awards Delta Sigma Omicron List of Things to Do Around Campus Resources for Food Insecurity Athletics(Empowered Sports) Men's Wheelchair Basketball Women's Wheelchair Basketball Wheelchair Track Camps Athletics Background National Intercollegiate Wheelchair Basketball Tournament 2012 London Paralympics Thinking About Illinois Prospective Student FAQ Transitioning to College Schedule Tour or Request Information High School Personnel FAQ's Parent FAQ's Applying for Services Application for DRES Services Documentation Requirements Housing Accommodations Services Animals on Campus Temporary Injuries Graduation & Beyond Transitioning from College Applying for Jobs & Internships Keeping in Touch Calendar Spotlight All Spotlights » DRES Alumna is new director of NIDILRR Congrats to Dr. Forber-Pratt! More » Check out our Paralympic Athletes as they train for Toyko 2021 Check out our paralympic athletes as they train for Toyko 2021! More » Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame Honor Dr. Tim Nugent and his legacy Former DRES founder and director honored by the Basketball Hall of Fame More » Questions About Disability Services for Incoming Students? If you missed the virtual open houses or still have questions about services, you can watch the videos to get your questions answered. More » DRES Unveils Legacy Project DRES hosted disability pioneer's widow and son for a tour of the new Legacy Project More » 2021 DSO Holiday Party The DSO Holiday Party for Children with disabilities is returning this year as an in-person event! More » 2021 DSO Holiday Party The DSO Holiday Party for Children with disabilities is returning this year as an in-person event! More » Previous Spotlight Story Next Spotlight Story A History of Firsts All Stories » Breaking ground in 1948 Illinois is first post-secondary institution to provide a support service program enabling students with disabilities to attend. More » Illinois First University to Receive Barrier-Free America Award Dean Tanya Gallagher accepts the Barrier-Free America Award from the Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA) during its 2012 Gala. More » 2012 Smithsonian Folklife Festival Highlights DRES contributes to the Illinois Pavilion at the 2012 Smithsonian Folklife Festival. More » Brad Hedrick Shares DRES History with the Board of Trustees Brad Hedrick, the DRES Director, shared a short presentation with University of Illinois Board of Trustees in March More » Nugent Collection Now Online Tim Nugent was the founder and director of Division of Rehabilitation Education Services (DRES), the first post-secondary disability support service program in the world. More » US Secretary of Education visits DRES Secretary of Education Arne Duncan visited DRES and talked with our students on his Ready for Success back to school tour. More » Brad Hedrick Retires Brad Hedrick retired after 33 years of service to the Division of Disability Resources and Educational Resources. More » Dr. Tim Nugent Received Honorary Degree Dr. Tim Nugent, DRES founder and disability pioneer, receives honarary degree from Illinois. More » Previous History Story Next History Story Events Calendar All Events » Give us feedback Contact Information, FAQs, and Directories Contact and Maps 1207 S. Oak St., Champaign, IL 61820 Main DRES Number (217) 333-1970 Fax (217) 244-0014 Email disability@illinois.edu Hours 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. M — F DRES access map | Campus access maps Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Prospective Students FAQ's Current Students FAQ's Video Tutorials Instructor/Faculty Information DRES Employment Opportunities Request for Information/Research Request an Academic Screening Directories and Units Staff Directory A-to-Z Directory About DRES College of Applied Health Sciences CRISIS INFO Help Stop Hate-Report It! Staff Login