COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Education - Elementary, Major MajorEducation - Elementary All Programs College of Applied Studies School of Education Wichita State's Bachelor of Arts in Education (BAED) in elementary education equips students with solid knowledge in the academic areas of English, math, science, social studies and the arts—while preparing them for careers as certified teachers in grades K-6. The program combines classroom learning and real-world teaching experience in Kansas' largest school district and surrounding areas. Learn how elementary education is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Applied Studies, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. In addition, you must complete your general education courses and a teacher education application to be admitted into the professional program. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Make a difference to the children of Kansas Do you want to be a part of helping stop the teacher shortage in Kansas? WSU's Teacher Apprentice Program lets para educators earn their bachelor's in early education while already working in the classroom. The fully online program is already producing more teachers who can help guide the youth of Kansas. Learn more Curriculum This four-year program starts with two years of general education followed by two years of teacher education. The curriculum was developed in collaboration with the College of Applied Studies, Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, College of Fine Arts and P-12 practitioners. View the curriculum Careers A bachelor's degree from Wichita State's College of Applied Studies will give you the knowledge, skills and confidence to make a positive impact in the classroom—and prepares you to pursue an advanced education degree. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Physical Education: PreK-12 Education - Early Childhood Unified Education - Early Childhood Unified/Elementary Education Apprentice Education - English/Science (Middle) Education - History Comprehensive/Mathematics (Middle) Education - History/English (Middle) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©