Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Alumni Alumni At HGSE, the opportunities don’t stop at graduation. We’re with you for a lifetime of learning and connecting — whether that’s mentoring a current student, expanding your professional skills, or forming community across generations to work for equity and justice in education. We invite you to explore opportunities to grow, build connections, and take advantage of the many ways you can make meaningful change. Widen Layout: standard "I remain connected with the HGSE community because the people I met there are life-long friends who keep me engaged in conversations that matter in education and the world, provide wise counsel when I need a listening ear and they even stood up with me at my wedding!" Russell Willis Ed.M.'96, Ed.M.'02 "I stay engaged with the HGSE community for many reasons, but most especially to have meaningful conversations with colleagues to further my knowledge and understanding of important issues, and to give back to HGSE for the opportunities the school has made possible for me." Claudia Bach Ed.M.'91, Ed.D.'94 "HGSE is a strong force supporting the power of education in transforming lives through innovation, leadership, and research at local, national, and global levels. As an alumna, I am part of such transformation." Maria Teresa Tatto Ed.M. '82, Ed.D.'87 Harvard Alumni Day — Friday, June 3, 2022 A University-wide, global event honoring alumni impact, citizenship, and community hosted by the Harvard Alumni Association (HAA). Register for Harvard Alumni Day HGSE Specific Alumni Events Widen Layout: standard Network & Connect HGSE alumni form a lifelong network — with many ways to connect with one another and help drive HGSE’s leadership in the field of education. View Full Networking Details Get Involved Alumni are an essential part of HGSE's impact. You can broaden that impact by volunteering your time and expertise to build a worldwide community of change-makers. View Ways to Get Involved Learn & Grow We can guide you in navigating decisions and pivots in your career, and advancing your professional learning to make a meaningful impact. View all Learning Opportunities Widen Layout: wide Benefits & Services Alumni are entitled to benefits and services from across the university. Explore What's Available Widen Layout: standard Stories of Alumni Impact The Move to Make Early Childcare Better — for Kids and Teachers Kim Frusciante’s efforts to be an “early partner” for NoLa families. A Swing and a Hit Matthew Grimes, Ed.M.’21, finds his dream job doing DEI work with the MLB. The Wizard Behind the Camera Filmmaker Tracy Heather Strain brings Oz writer and many others to life. Read more stories from Ed. Magazine >> Widen Layout: wide Alumni Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice