Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy You are here Home Life at Temple Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Prioritizing the health and well-being of everyone. Beginning Monday, May 9, 2022, PCR tests will no longer be used as part of the university’s COVID-19 testing program. All tests administered to students, faculty and staff at Paley Hall and the Student Faculty Center will be done with rapid COVID-19 antigen tests. All unvaccinated students, faculty and staff with approved COVID-19 vaccine exemptions are still required to test. Individual testing reminders will continue to be sent out weekly, and testing appointments can be made on the health portal. Read the full announcement for more details. Read the Announcement It takes all members of the Temple University community working together to keep ourselves and everyone safe and healthy. We’re here to provide the support and resources you need. You’ll find information about Temple’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic and our universitywide efforts, as well as responses to frequently asked questions. Temple’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic continues to be informed by guidance issued by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the city of Philadelphia. Vaccination Requirements All students, faculty and staff should have received the COVID-19 vaccination. Please read important information about this mandate and how to get vaccinated at Temple. View the full announcement from the university. All eligible students, faculty and staff are urged to receive a COVID-19 booster as soon as possible. Learn more about how to get the COVID-19 booster at Temple. Temple Mask Guidelines Effective April 22, 2022, masks will again be optional in most campus spaces, including in common areas, dining halls, meeting rooms, nonclinical office spaces and residence halls. Masking will continue to be required in classrooms, healthcare facilities, labs, shuttles, studios or other locations where in-person classes (including examinations) are taking place. Unless there is another change to the city’s mask guidance before early May, this also means that masks will be optional at this spring’s Commencement ceremonies. Following updated guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), cloth masks alone are no longer adequate for protecting yourself and others. The CDC recommends that you wear the most protective mask you can that fits well (completely covers your nose and mouth) and that you will wear consistently. Temple students and employees now have three options for how to mask while on campus. Quarantine and Isolation The university has adopted the updated quarantine and isolation guidance offered by the CDC. If you test positive for COVID-19, please follow the guidelines below. You must isolate for five days; you can leave isolation on day six, if you are fever-free with improving symptoms. If you leave isolation on day six, you must continue wearing your mask while around others for an additional five days. After 10 days, continue wearing your mask in accordance with Temple’s mask guidelines. Contents Public Health GuidanceCOVID-19 Guidance & InformationFAQ: Health & SafetyFAQ: General InformationContact Temple Emphasis on Public Health Temple remains committed to the health and safety of our community. Each of us can keep our campuses safe by following the public health pillars outlined below. All members of the Temple community should follow the CDC’s guidance and public health recommendations. Use of Facial Coverings Masks are required in classrooms, healthcare facilities labs, shuttles, studios or other locations where in-person classes (including examinations) are taking place. Everyone should continue to consider their own personal risks and decide for themselves whether they want to continue to wear a mask in all or certain situations. Practice Good Hand Hygiene Practicing good hygiene such as frequent hand-washing is a sound health practice. We’ve installed hand sanitizer stations throughout our campuses, along with reminders to avoid touching your face after touching surfaces. Adherence to Physical Distancing We continue to recommend maintaining a safe distance and uncrowded conditions whenever possible. Routine Health Monitoring Taking your temperature on a daily basis, watching for other symptoms, and, if warranted, seeking help through your primary care physician or Student and Employee Health Services are important for you and for everyone on campus. Even fully vaccinated individuals have some risk of contracting the virus. University Protocols Temple’s current protocols related to planning guidance and guidelines for the university community can be accessed by logging in to TUportal and navigating to the “COVID-19 Information” tab. /coronavirus/covid-19-frequently-asked-questions Frequently Asked Questions View answers to some of the most frequently asked questions about the pandemic and Temple University’s response. Read answers to frequently asked questions about the pandemic and Temple's response /coronavirus/testing-tracing Testing & Tracing Learn more about the university’s COVID-19 testing and contact tracing efforts. Read important information about Temple's COVID-19 testing and contract tracing. /coronavirus/vaccines Vaccines Find out more about the COVID-19 vaccine and how to get yours at Temple. Learn more about getting vaccinated by visiting Temple's vaccines page /coronavirus/academics-tuition-aid Academics, Tuition & Aid Get updates about classes, tuition and financial aid at Temple. Read important updates about course formats, tuition and aid for students at Temple. /coronavirus/student-housing-campus-life Student Housing & On-campus Life Find what you need to know about student housing and life on campus. Learn important information about on-campus housing and student life. /coronavirus/work-life-faculty-staff Work-life for Faculty & Staff Review the latest information from Human Resources for faculty and staff. Learn important information about resources available to Temple's faculty and staff /coronavirus/return-scenario-planning Return Scenario Planning Learn how Temple is preparing for the future. Read important information about how Temple prepares for a return to campus. /coronavirus/campus-communication University Communication Stay updated on Temple’s response to COVID-19. Read the announcements Temple has communicated since the beginning of the pandemic /coronavirus/international-campuses-programs International Campuses See how our international programs are responding. Learn more about Temple's response at our Rome and Japan campuses /coronavirus/campus-communication/covid-19-dashboard Vaccination Rates & COVID-19 Dashboard View a count of vaccination rates and active COVID-19 cases in the Temple University community. View Temple's COVID-19 dashboard and active cases in the community Health & Safety at Temple Is the university requiring boosters for all students, faculty and staff? Temple strongly urges all those that are eligible receive a booster shot. Boosters are the best way to prevent yourself from becoming infected or becoming seriously ill if you are infected. Can I receive a booster on-campus? If it has been six months or more since your last dose of a COVID vaccine, you are eligible for a booster shot. Boosters will be made available to eligible students, faculty and staff based on availability of the vaccine. Booster shots are also readily available in pharmacies, doctors’ offices and through public health organizations. Health Services will resume offering vaccine and booster clinics beginning the week of Jan. 10, 2022. Schedule an appointment through Health Services. Temple Health System is also offering COVID-19 boosters. Learn more about getting vaccinated at Temple. Will all scheduled events be permitted to take place as planned in the spring 2022 semester? Temple is partnering with the city of Philadelphia to protect our community by limiting the number of large in-person gatherings. More information regarding upcoming events will be forthcoming. For the time being, students are encouraged to limit their gatherings to their social groups. Where can I get tested for COVID-19? Temple Student and Employee Health have several testing options. Learn more about testing on campus. Why is Temple requiring the COVID-19 vaccine for students, faculty, staff and contractors? As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve, so too has the university’s response. With rising positivity rates, the emergence of the delta variant and the city of Philadelphia’s Aug. 13, 2021 mandate requiring full vaccination at higher education institutions, the university has implemented this update to its vaccination protocols. All students, faculty and staff must have either received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine (rather than being fully vaccinated) or an approved medical or religious exemption by Oct. 15. Temple students, faculty and staff must submit their vaccine information to the health portal by Oct. 15 for their first shot and by Nov. 15 for their second shot in a two-dose series (Pfizer or Moderna). Learn more about the vaccine mandate and how to get vaccinated at Temple. Is there a deadline for when I need to receive the vaccine? Temple students, faculty and staff were required to submit their vaccine information to the health portal by Oct. 15 for their first shot and by Nov. 15 for their second shot in a two-dose series (Pfizer or Moderna). Read more details about how to get vaccinated at Temple and how to upload your vaccine record. When are we required to wear masks on campus? Effective April 2022, masks are optional in most campus spaces, including in common areas, dining halls, meeting rooms, nonclinical office spaces and residence halls. Masking will continue to be required in classrooms, healthcare facilities, labs, shuttles, studios or other locations where in-person classes (including examinations) are taking place. Following updated guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Temple’s mask guidelines have changed. Cloth masks alone are no longer adequate for protecting yourself and others. The CDC recommends that you wear the most protective mask you can that fits well (completely covers your nose and mouth) and that you will wear consistently. Temple students and employees now have three options for how to mask while on campus. Good: a surgical mask with multiple layers of nonwoven material Better: a surgical mask with a cloth mask over it Best: a KN95 mask A limited number of KN95 masks will be made available on Main Campus. Learn more about where on Main Campus masks will be distributed. Masks are not required outdoors unless it is impossible to keep a safe distance, but this guidance is subject to change to meet the safety needs of the university community. How can Temple students, faculty and staff get vaccinated on campus? The Temple community can take the following steps to get fully vaccinated and inform the university that they’ve done so. Learn more about vaccines at Temple. Vaccines are widely available throughout the city, the region and the country, and they are safe, effective and free. Everyone is strongly urged to get a vaccine. Students, faculty and staff can call 215-204-7500 to schedule an appointment to receive the vaccine at Student Health Services, 1700 N. Broad St., 4th floor. Uploading your vaccine information to Temple’s health portal is a critical step in providing information needed to effectively plan for the future. If you do not upload your vaccine information, you will be considered unvaccinated by the university. What happens if a member of the university community is not vaccinated? If a Temple community member does not provide evidence of vaccination, they will be subject to enhanced weekly (or more frequent) testing. Unvaccinated individuals will also be subject to additional restrictions, such as limited opportunities for gathering in groups, activities in close quarters and university sponsored travel. Students should be aware that many university partners have implemented vaccine mandates and being unvaccinated may limit opportunities like internships, clinical placements, student teaching and even research experiences. What are the university’s current testing guidelines for vaccinated and unvaccinated students, faculty and staff? Vaccinated individuals are not required to participate in the university’s COVID-19 testing program. Those who have not uploaded proof of vaccination are considered unvaccinated and will be regularly tested for COVID-19. Read information about COVID-19 testing at Temple. How is Temple cleaning and disinfecting spaces on campus? All common areas, particularly places that many people touch (such as doorknobs, elevator buttons and railings), are being cleaned with hospital-grade quaternary disinfectant A-456II, which is a product listed by the Environmental Protection Agency as protective against COVID-19. All bathrooms are cleaned and sanitized daily. What if a student falls into a high-risk group or has a physical or mental health concern that requires they take online courses? As always, if you have a health condition that supports the need for reasonable accommodation, you should contact Temple’s Office of Disability Resources and Services (DRS) for assistance at drs@temple.edu or 215-204-1280. Does Temple have a contact-tracing initiative on campus? Yes. Temple enhanced our current campus testing and contact-tracing initiative. Our dedicated team at Student and Employee Health Services has been testing for the virus since the early days of the pandemic, and that work continues today. Read more about symptomatic and asymptomatic testing for students and staff. In addition, Temple announced a new 10-hour contact tracing training certification course. The Contact Tracing Training Course teaches individuals of broad skill levels how to track the spread of the COVID-19 virus. With enrollment open to all at no or low cost, hundreds have already enrolled in the training, including Temple students, health professionals and members of the public interested in fulfilling this essential role amid the current pandemic. The training is being run by Temple’s College of Public Health. What if a student doesn’t feel comfortable returning to campus and prefers to take online courses? If you have personal circumstances that lead you to prefer a full or partial online course load, you should consult your academic advisor and/or academic program coordinator, who will be able to assist you. Please note that tuition and fees are set regardless of the method of instruction and will not be refunded in the event instruction occurs remotely for all or any part of the academic year. What measures are in place to ensure everyone’s health and safety when on campus? Four public health pillars: Everyone must adhere to the university’s four public health pillars (use of facial coverings, frequent hand-washing, adherence to physical distancing and health monitoring). Testing and tracing: The university continues to test students, faculty and staff for COVID-19 on campus, and has a robust contact-tracing initiative. Student and Employee Health Services have been testing for the virus since the early days of the pandemic, and that work is continuing. Learn more about the university’s testing and tracing initiatives. Changes to physical spaces to facilitate distancing and healthy environments: Plexiglass shields are installed in reception areas to ensure safe separation in places where distancing might be difficult, and reminders to remain at least six feet apart in public areas are affixed to floors and walls in campus buildings. Some seating was removed in public spaces to reduce density in common areas as much as possible. Hand sanitizer stations are installed in campus buildings. Preparations to respond to a rapidly changing situation: Responding to the coronavirus pandemic has required the university, like other institutions, to be nimble when it is necessary to preserve the health and safety of our community. The university was ready to pivot to primarily online instruction this fall. How can someone prevent contracting coronavirus, the flu or other respiratory illnesses? Everyone has an important role to play in preventing the spread of the coronavirus and other respiratory illnesses. There are many simple steps everyone can take to keep themselves and others healthy. These include the following. Frequently wash your hands using soap and water for at least 20 seconds (the time it takes to sing the “Happy Birthday” song twice). Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer containing at least 60% alcohol in the absence of soap and water. Wear a face covering over your nose and mouth when in public places where it is difficult to maintain physical distancing from others (read tips on face coverings from the CDC). Adhere to physical distancing guidelines by staying at least six feet away from others in public places and avoiding parties and other large gatherings. Avoid touching your face, especially before washing your hands. Regularly clean and disinfect “high-touch” items (e.g., cell phones) and areas in your home (e.g., bathrooms, doorknobs). Stay home and contact your healthcare provider if you develop symptoms of illness, especially cough, shortness of breath, fever, severe fatigue, gastrointestinal issues, loss of sense of taste or smell, or muscle aches. Follow directives issued by the CDC as well as local and state government and health authorities. What should a student or employee do if they believe they’ve been exposed to COVID-19? If you are sick—especially with symptoms of cough, difficulty breathing, fever or chills, sore throat, shortness of breath, or loss of taste or smell—contact your healthcare provider, Student Health Services (215-204-7500) or Employee Health Services (215-204-2679). Be sure to tell them your symptoms and inform if you believe you may have been in contact with someone with COVID-19. They can further screen you for COVID-19 and, if needed, help you get tested and recommend the next steps you should take. It is important to note that a positive test will not affect your standing with the university. Our main goal will always be the health and safety of our students, faculty and staff, so that you can continue to work toward your learning goals. How does someone get tested for COVID-19? Student Health Services and Employee Health Services offer on-campus testing for the Temple community. Read more about symptomatic and asymptomatic testing for students and staff. The Philadelphia Department of Public Health currently recommends testing for COVID-19 for anyone exposed to someone confirmed to have COVID-19; anyone with symptoms of cough, shortness of breath, or any combination of fever, muscle pain, chills, new loss of sense of smell or taste, and sore throat; and anyone who has recently traveled to a state with a high rate of COVID-19 transmission. Testing in Philadelphia is currently being prioritized for people who are hospitalized, have chronic medical conditions, work in congregate care or healthcare settings, are public safety or other essential workers, or are close contacts of a confirmed case of COVID-19 or associated with a known cluster of cases. Philadelphia now offers a number of testing sites across the city. General Information Who is eligible for the COVID-19 vaccine in Pennsylvania? In Pennsylvania, everyone five years of age and older is eligible to be vaccinated. Everyone 12 years of age and older are eligible to receive the booster. Learn more about getting the COVID-19 vaccine in Pennsylvania. How does the university monitor and respond to information about COVID-19? The university is committed to carefully monitoring and responding to new information about COVID-19 and its impacts. In developing and preparing for our return scenarios, it is understood that our plans must be flexible and include contingencies for changing conditions over time. We are prepared to deviate from outlined plans in order to take swift actions to keep our community safe. What is coronavirus? A coronavirus is a type of virus that can cause a wide range of illnesses, from the common cold to severe pneumonia. The novel coronavirus at the center of the current epidemic has been named SARS-CoV-2, and the illness it causes has been named COVID-19 (abbreviation for coronavirus disease 2019). This is a new strain of coronavirus. What are the symptoms? The most common symptoms of COVID-19 include chills, cough, fever, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, fatigue, body aches, headache, new loss of taste or smell, sore throat, congestion or runny nose, nausea or vomiting, and diarrhea. Symptoms and their severity vary widely from person to person, and some people infected with the virus may exhibit no symptoms at all but still be able to spread it. If you are concerned you could have the virus, consult the CDC’s symptom self-checker tool, and read more information from Student Health Services. How is the virus spread? COVID-19, the illness caused by the new coronavirus, is mainly spread through direct contact with saliva or respiratory droplets, similar to a cold or the flu. According to the CDC, person-to-person spread of this coronavirus is most likely to occur with close contact, or contact within six feet, with an infected person who coughs, sneezes or talks, and those droplets are inhaled by someone else. Some people infected with COVID-19 do not display any symptoms but can still spread the virus. What is the difference between novel coronavirus, COVID-19 and SARS-CoV-2? The novel coronavirus causing the current outbreak of illness has been officially named since the outbreak began. SARS-CoV-2 is the name of the virus itself, while COVID-19, which stands for coronavirus disease 2019, is the name of the illness the virus causes. What does it mean to monitor your health, be isolated or be quarantined? Are they the same? Monitoring your health means being vigilant and looking out for the development of any symptoms associated with COVID-19, which may include but are not limited to cough, shortness of breath, fever or chills, body aches, fatigue, new loss of taste or smell, sore throat, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and congestion or a runny nose. You should check your temperature regularly to ensure you do not develop a fever, and contact a medical professional if you do develop a fever or any other symptoms. Quarantine is separating people who appear to be healthy but may have been exposed to a contagious illness to make sure that they do not become sick and spread the illness to others. It typically covers the “incubation period” of a given illness, which refers to the period of time between exposure and when symptoms of the illness are known to appear. Isolation means keeping people who are sick and contagious separated from people who are healthy to ensure that they do not spread the illness. What are the best practices to keep from contracting COVID-19? There are four important steps you can take to protect your health and the health of others in your household and community. These measures are as follows. Face coverings. While masks are optional in most campus spaces, that does not mean the pandemic is over. Everyone should continue to consider their own personal risks and decide for themselves whether they want to continue to wear a mask in all or certain situations. Frequent hand-washing. In addition to encouraging our community members to wash their hands frequently, hand sanitizer stations will soon be installed throughout Temple’s campuses, along with reminders to avoid touching your face after touching surfaces. Maintaining a safe space between you and others. Physical distancing reminders will be affixed on floors and walls of campus buildings to ensure that everyone remains at a safe distance when on-campus operations resume. Classrooms and other common spaces will have similar distancing requirements. Monitoring your own health on a daily basis. Taking your temperature, watching for other symptoms and, if warranted, seeking help through your primary care physician or Student and Employee Health Services are important for everyone on campus. Most importantly, if you are sick, stay home and avoid contact with others to avoid spreading illness. What is the correct way to wash my hands? You should wash your hands with soap and water for 20 seconds (about the length of singing the “Happy Birthday” song twice). Consult this CDC page for more specific guidance on proper hand-washing and hand sanitizing techniques. What does physical distancing mean? Physical distancing means maintaining a safe physical distance from people outside of your immediate household. Because the coronavirus spreads from person to person in close contact settings, keeping at least six feet of distance from others reduces the likelihood of transmission of the virus from person to person. Physical distancing also means avoiding gathering in groups and staying out of crowded places. Read the stories. Rising to the challenge At the height of the pandemic, Temple helped combat the spread of COVID-19. This series chronicles our universitywide efforts and its long-lasting impact in the community. Read the stories. Rising to the challenge Questions? Temple students and employees are encouraged to call Temple Student Services (215-204-7500) and Employee Health Services (215-204-2679) with additional questions or comments. Stay Connected There are multiple ways you can connect with the university to get the most up-to-date information. You can follow Temple on social media, or you can subscribe to Temple Now, our news publication for the campus community. Follow Temple on Twitter Follow Temple on Instagram Read Temple Now Go back to Life at TempleMore in COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy Testing & Tracing Vaccines COVID-19 FAQ Academics, Tuition & Aid Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Return Scenario Planning University Communication International Campuses and Programs Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.