Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Health Sciences About Undergraduate Graduate Certificates & Continuing Ed Students Research Centers & Institutes News & Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Graduate Admissions MS Exercise, Sport & Movement Science MS Health Promotion MS Exercise Nutrition MS Physical Education Teacher Education MS Environmental Nutrition MS Nutrition Science MS Clinical Nutrition About Admissions MS & DI Combined Program Resources Students Preceptors PhD Applied Physiology & Neuromechanics AboutAdmissionsApplied Biomechanics (APBI)APBI FacultyApplied Physiology & Nutrition (APHN)APHN Faculty Take Action Find a Program that Drives You Meet our Faculty Schedule an Advising Appointment Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home College of Health Sciences Graduate Clinical Nutrition Students Clinical Nutrition Students Hello everyone! My name is Ash Abro, and I am a Tennessee native from Franklin. TN. I completed my bachelor’s at the Middle Tennessee State University in Murfreesboro, TN. I also hold an Associate of Science in Nutrition and Food Science from Columbia State Community College. I am now working towards completing the Master of Science in Clinical Nutrition and Dietetic Internship program at the University of Memphis. I have previous experience working on the Tennessee Department of Health’s Project Diabetes initiative and leading the Student Tennessee Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics as the former president. I have been interested in human health and nutrition since I was in high school, which was also when I knew I wanted to become a registered dietitian. I look forward to all the wonderful experience I will gain while at the University of Memphis and with the preceptors while completing rotations! VIDEO BIO > My name is Sarah Guthrie, and I was born and raised in Memphis, TN. I completed my DPD at the University of Memphis in May 2021. I am a childhood cancer survivor and former St. Jude patient which is what led me to my interest and love for food and nutrition! I am looking forward to continuing my dietetic journey at the University of Memphis in the MS/DI program to further my knowledge and for the opportunities to experience the different fields of nutrition and dietetics. In my free time, I love to be with my husband and daughter on our farm. I enjoy cooking, riding my horses, gardening, and being outdoors! VIDEO BIO > My name is Ashlyn Hall and I was born and raised in Memphis, TN. I completed my DPD from the University of Memphis in December 2020. I have always known that I have wanted to help people through my future career, and when I learned about dietetics in high school, I knew that this was the perfect avenue by which I could do this! I have experience in food service from the University of Memphis, and I currently work at Regional One Health as a Neonatal Milk Technician in the NICU. In my free time, I love to watercolor, garden, experiment with recipes, and enjoy the outdoors with my husband! VIDEO BIO > Hello! My name is Ayden Hayes. I am a Memphis native and I am working on earning my third degree from the University of Memphis. I completed my DPD coursework in May 2021 and I also graduated with an education degree in May 2018. I chose to work toward becoming a registered dietitian because I have seen the ways that proper nutrition can enhance my own life and I want to share this knowledge with others in need. I work weekends as a diet clerk at Baptist Memorial Hospital, which has given me both food service and clinical experience. I am eager to embark on rotations and gain valuable insight into the various areas of practice that we have available in the field of dietetics. Outside of work and school, I love trying new recipes and taking long walks with my dog. VIDEO BIO > Hello, my name is Brandi Johnson and I am a student in the Clinical Nutrition and Dietetic Internship program. I am a native Memphian and currently a research coordinator/interventionist at UTHSC. I received my bachelor’s in nutrition in 2017 and master’s in public health in 2021 from the UofM. The past few years, I have been gaining experience and knowledge in public health and research as it relates to community nutrition and health behavior change. But, I am excited to shift gears a bit and learn more about clinical nutrition and best practices as a registered dietitian. I am hoping to use the knowledge and skills gained from this program in improving community nutrition even further and can’t wait to take part in the advancement of the field of nutrition and dietetics. I look forward to learning from and working with you during the site rotations. Thank you for being a part of this journey with me. VIDEO BIO > Hi, my name is Cameryn Jones, and I am from Wiggins, MS. I completed my DPD through Mississippi State University where I obtained my Bachelor of Science in Nutrition. I decided to venture out of Mississippi to be part of the University of Memphis Dietetic Internship. I am currently a graduate assistant at St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital and I’m loving every minute of it so far! From a very young age, I was always passionate about all aspects of nutrition and caring for others around me. The field of dietetics provides a way for me to combine both my love for food and helping others in the most perfect way. In my free time, I love to go on walks with my dog Waylon, spend time outdoors, and spend time with family and friends. I am excited for this opportunity and am eager to influence others in their nutrition journey. VIDEO BIO > Hi! My name is Ashley Krueger. I was raised in Colorado, but recently moved to Tennessee to be with family and continue my education. I graduated in 2020 with my bachelor’s degree in nutrition and dietetics from the University of Northern Colorado. I knew I wanted to make dietetics a career when I was diagnosed with celiac and Crohn’s disease my senior year of high school. I experienced firsthand the effect nutrition had on chronic illness, and knew that I wanted to help others experiencing similar problems. I feel incredibly privileged to help guide people in their own nutrition and health journeys. After graduating from Memphis and earning my RD credentials, I hope to work in a clinical setting providing gastroenterology patients with nutrition support. Outside of the classroom, it is common to find me outdoors hiking, paddle boarding, or making friends with any dog I can find. I am so excited to be a part of the Memphis community! VIDEO BIO > Hi, my name is Sara-Grace Long, and I am from Memphis, TN. I graduated from the University of Memphis in May of 2021 where I obtained my Bachelor of Science in Dietetics. I am extremely excited to share my love for nutrition through educating others on the importance of it in our lives, specifically in the healing process. My passion of nutrition grew while working in a NICU alongside another dietician during undergrad; this experience also shed a light on the love I have for patient interaction. In my free time I love working out, being outside, and spending time with friends and family. I am very excited to have the opportunity to continue my education through this program. I am eager to learn how to have a positive impact on other people’s lives through nutrition! VIDEO BIO > Hi! My name is Raye Mullis. I’m originally from Brownsville, TN, and moved to Memphis in 2000 to attend Christian Brothers University. I graduated in 2004 and worked in a biotech pharmacy until becoming pregnant with my oldest son in 2009. He was born with a heart complication, and with that came several other health issues. I began to research the connection between some of these health issues and the food that we were eating and developed an interest in the connection between food and disease states. After being a stay-at-home mom to my three sons for almost a decade, I decided to go back to school to become a registered dietitian in 2018. I completed the DPD program at the University of Memphis and am currently completing the Clinical Nutrition Master’s and Dietetic Internship Program at the University of Memphis. I’m a graduate assistant at St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, and I absolutely love it! After graduation, I plan to work in clinical and eventually build a private practice. I’m interested in several areas of dietetics, including sports, renal, diabetes, and GI. In my free time, I love to spend time with my husband and children, exercise, read, cook, and be with friends. VIDEO BIO > Hi, I’m Colleen Orbegoso! This is my fourth year at the University of Memphis, but my first year as a graduate student. I am looking forward to pursuing a master’s degree, as I hold two Bachelor of Science degrees, one in supply chain management and one in dietetics. The past decade has taken me from coaching and teaching fitness to pursuing my dream of becoming a registered dietitian. I am eagerly anticipating the hands-on experience during the internship portion, while actively discovering the many career paths in this profession. My interest in gerontology, food photography, and integrative and functional medicine keeps me guessing on what my future will look like. Outside of school, I am busy working part time as a GA, raising my two boys, running my website, and enjoying many outdoor activities. VIDEO BIO > My name is Angelika Sharp. I was born in the Philippines but I grew up in Stansbury Park, Utah. I completed a BS in Human Nutrition from Southern Utah University before moving to Memphis a little bit over two years ago. I received my DPD Certificate here at the University of Memphis and I am proud to be continuing here to get my master's degree. I always knew I wanted to work in healthcare, but it wasn't until I took an Introduction to Nutrition course where I learned that this was the career that I wanted to be in. In my spare time, I love watching television, eating and cooking food, and hanging out with my dog and husband. I am so excited to meet everyone and learn as much as I can here. VIDEO BIO > Hey everyone! My name is Shelton Spivey and I am from Starkville, MS. I completed my DPD from Mississippi State University where I obtained my Bachelor of Science in Nutrition. I became interested in the field of dietetics my senior year of high school. I was passionate about learning how food and science correspond together to impact the body. Through my undergraduate experience, I have learned the importance and demand of registered dietitians. I want to be part of that difference in having a significant role in people’s health and well-being. I am currently a graduate assistant for the new student wellness center on campus. I am excited to see the challenges and experiences that come my way, as I pursue my career in the Clinical Nutrition Master’s and Dietetic Internship Program at the University of Memphis. VIDEO BIO > Hello, my name is Randi Stocking, and I was born and raised in Memphis, TN. I completed my DPD from the University of Memphis in May 2020. I have always had a very strong interest in science and when I was younger, I wanted to be a vet, but eventually figured out that that wasn’t where my passion was, but my road to Dietetics was still a long one. I believe it was my junior year of undergrad that I found myself taking a nutrition class and fell in love, and then realized that I could truly help people in this field. It was from that moment that I realized that I wanted to help people through Nutrition. I am currently completing the Clinical Nutrition Master’s and Dietetic Internship Program at the University of Memphis. I am very excited to gain more knowledge in this field and find out where my passions lie for my future career as a registered dietitian. In my free time, I enjoy spending time with my wonderful husband, jogging at Shelby Farms, crafting, reading, and spending time with friends and family. VIDEO BIO > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.