Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Accreditation Main Navigation University Accreditation Discipline Accreditation Professional Licensure and Certification University Accreditation California State University, Fullerton (CSUF) was initially accredited by Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC) - Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC) in 1961. The most recent WSCUC review took place in 2019, which granted CSUF reaffirmation for a full and maximum 10-year period. To learn more, read CSUF's accreditation history. The WASC Senior College and University Commission ("the Commission") is an accrediting agency serving a diverse membership of public and private higher education institutions throughout California, Hawaii, and the Pacific as well as a limited number of institutions outside the U.S. Through its work of peer review, based on standards agreed to by the membership, the Commission encourages continuous institutional improvement, and assures the membership and its constituencies (including the public) that accredited institutions are fulfilling their missions in service to their students and the public good. WSCUC is recognized by the U.S. Department of Education as certifying institutional eligibility for federal funding in a number of programs, including student access to federal financial aid. In other words, accreditation is necessary for participation in federal and state financial aid programs. Accreditation also is important for the acceptance and transfer of college credit, is a prerequisite for student application for many graduate programs, and is often an eligibility requirement for research grant programs. Accreditation is periodically reaffirmed through a comprehensive review process that includes an institutional self-study that results in a comprehensive Institutional Report, an external review by colleagues from peer institutions, and a site visit at least once every ten years. CSUF’s WSCUC Accreditation Liaison Officer (ALO) is Dr. Su Swarat, Associate Vice President for Institutional Effectiveness. Please contact the ALO for all accreditation-related questions at alo@fullerton.edu. 2019 Institutional Report 2019 Institutional Report 2019 WSCUC Review Team Report 2019 WSCUC Commission Action Letter 2016 Midcycle Report Inventory of Educational Indicators 2016 WSCUC Review Letter 2015 Interim Report 2015 Interim Report 2015 WSCUC Review Letter 2012 Reaffirmation of Accreditation Institutional report (2007) Institutional Proposal Capacity and preparatory review (CPR) (2009) CPR report 2009 WSCUC Review Team Report Educational Effectiveness Review (EER) EER report 2012 WSCUC Review Team Report 2012 WSCUC Commission Action Letter 2000 Reaffirmation of Accreditation 2000 Final Report 2000 WSCUC Review Team Report 2000 WSCUC Commission Action Letter This site is maintained by Academic Programs. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact academicprograms@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.