Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Hiring, Hosting and Admitting » Hiring International Workers Set Navigation title in component Hiring International Workers Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Hiring International Workers Over 1,000 international scholars and 4,000 international students call the University of Cincinnati home. UC International helps departments understand the policies and procedures of hiring international scholars and students. University policy requires that departments process all immigration applications and petitions through UC International. A unit may not relinquish UC control of visa sponsorship to an outside attorney. All international students and employees must have a record created in UC International's iBearcatsGlobal database. International Employees Departments can hire international employees under a variety of visa statuses. Hiring information for comon visa statuses is available on UC International's Bearcats Landing website (requires login). If we do not have specific information about a potential employee's visa status, email our office for further guidance. H-1B Specialty Workers right arrow down arrow H-1B status is used to hire international workers for a specialty occupation. The position must require a bachelor's degree and specialized knowledge in order to qualify for an H-1B visa. Hire an H-1B J-1 Scholars right arrow down arrow The J-1 visa is an exchange visitor program which provides opportunities for students, professors, scholars, specialists and interns to work or otherwise gain exposure to American knowledge. Hire a J-1 Scholar E-3 Australians right arrow down arrow The E-3 visa allows citizens of Australia to work in the United States in specialty occupations. Hire an E-3 O-1 Employees of Extraordinary Ability right arrow down arrow O-1 status is available to people of extraordinary ability in their field. Hire an O-1 TN Canadian or Mexican Employees right arrow down arrow TN status is an opportunity for Canadian and Mexican individuals to work in the United States temporarily. Hire a TN Permanent Residency Petitions right arrow down arrow UC International provides immigrant visa assistance to employees who file permanent residency petitions based upon their employment at the University of Cincinnati. Support a Permanent Residency Petition International Student Workers International students can work for the University of Cincinnati under certain circumstances, like on-campus jobs, graduate assistantships and more. Hire an international student UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top