Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Safety Menu Main Nav Campus Safety Contact Back Back Close About Overview FAQ BC Police Department Overview About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Services Emergency Management Overview Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Environmental Health & Safety Overview Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Documents Overview Crime Alerts Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report Business Continuity Emergency Plans and Publications Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Accreditation Home BC Police Department About Accreditation About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact 2020 Re-Accreditation Ceremony (L-R) Lt. Jeff Postell, Staff Sergeant Hasnain Ali, Chief William Evans, Lt. Laurene Spiess, Sgt. Alex Balonek & Deputy Chief Kevin Buckley The Boston College Police Department was initially awarded accreditation by the Massachusetts Police Accreditation Commission (MPAC) in 2014 and received our 2nd Re-Accreditation from the Commission on February 4th, 2020. Attaining this award shows the extraordinary steps the Department took “to demonstrate its pride and professionalism by living up to a body of critical law enforcement standards in areas of management, operations, and technical support activities to deliver quality police services to its community.” Lt. Laurene Spiess serves as the department's Accreditation Manager. About the Massachusetts Police Accreditation Program: Massachusetts is one of 30 states that offer an accreditation program for its law enforcement community separate from the national Accreditation program. There are two steps to the award program: Certification and Accreditation, with accreditation being the higher of the two. There are no time limits or constraints imposed upon agencies by the Commission for achieving initial certification or accreditation. However, upon achieving an award, there is a three-year cycle to be re-assessed to maintain our status. For certification, the Department was required to meet 159 mandatory standards. For accreditation, we need to meet an additional 98 mandatory standards, plus at least 69 of the optional standards (55% of the 125 optional standards required of a Department with 1 to 50 Full-time, sworn officers). According to MPAC, achieving Certification or Accreditation Status Means: The agency is committed to meeting professional standards. The agency is willing to be assessed on a regularly scheduled basis by Commission-appointed assessors to confirm compliance with professional standards; and The agency agrees to correct any deficiencies discovered during the assessment process to establish or re-establish compliance with standards. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Police Department Maloney Hall 617-552-4444 About BC Police Department Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Documents To report a campus emergency: Call BC Police @ 617-552-4444 In case of fire call 911 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College