Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close HOME Admission Apply Veteran and ROTC Applicants In This Section Admission Overview Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Veteran and ROTC Applicants Boston College encourages veterans and individuals considering a career in the armed forces to apply. We value the perspective gained through military experience and the benefits for our campus community when veterans become students. A medium-sized university with undergraduates studying academic disciplines within the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, Carroll School of Management, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, and Connell School of Nursing as well as the Woods College of Advancing Studies, Boston College undergraduates take advantage of our campus's close proximity to the educational, social, research and professional opportunities found in Boston. As a Jesuit, Catholic University, Boston College educates students to become Men and Women for Others. Saint Ignatius of Loyola, founder of the Jesuits, was a soldier before his spiritual conversion led him to the priesthood. Commitment to community, servant leadership and ethical decision-making remain core tenets of Jesuit education. Many Boston College alumni are veterans. They represent a network of support for servicemen and servicewomen transitioning to college and beyond. Thank you for your service and sacrifice for us. Jeff Gallant Associate Director, Office of Undergraduate Admission 617-552-2413 jeffrey.gallant@bc.edu Visit the Boston College Veterans Site On This Page Service to School - VetLink Network ROTC Boston College Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program Boston College is proud to partner with Service to School's VetLink network, colleges and universities committed to expanding opportunities and access for highly qualified veterans moving on to further their education. This partnership reflects BC's commitment to increasing the number of student veterans enrolled in undergraduate programs at the University. Service to School's (S2S) mission is to prepare transitioning servicemembers and veterans for their next chapter of leadership by helping them gain admission to the best college or graduate school possible. BC undergraduate Enmanuel Cabrera '23 was recently featured on the S2S website. Are you looking to participate in the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) while in college? Boston College has long offered ROTC opportunities in multiple branches of the armed forces. The Air Force ROTC program is offered at Boston University, but enrolls students from 10 Boston area schools, including Boston College. Army ROTC at Boston College is part of the Liberty Battalion based out of Northeastern University, but most training and coursework for BC students takes place on Boston College's campus. Navy ROTC at Boston College is part of the Boston Consortium based out of Boston University. Feel free to explore the links provided. Contact information can be found on each branch's page. Please visit the Boston College Veterans page to learn more about the many ways in which BC welcomes and supports those who have served and continued to serve our country. There you will learn more about the Boston College Veterans' Advisory Group, Student Veterans Association, Veterans Alumni Network, and Faculty/Staff Affinity Group. This serves as a great resource for those interested in understanding the possibilities for veterans at Boston College. Members throughout the entire BC community are valued partners to these important organizations. Boston College acts as a liaison with the US Department of Veterans Affairs for students who may qualify to receive veterans' education benefits. In addition, Boston College is proud to participate in the Post-9/11 GI Bill Yellow Ribbon Program, signifying BC's commitment to providing educational assistance to veterans who have served our country. Eligible students in all Boston College undergraduate divisions will receive a $6,000 Yellow Ribbon scholarship from BC that is matched by Veterans Affairs with an additional $6,000 for a total of $12,000. To learn more, please review Veterans Education Benefits under Types of Financial Aid. Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College