Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Learning Resources » First-Year Students » Technology Skills Set Navigation title in component Note-Taking and Test Strategies The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Technology Skills Incoming students will have to master a number of skills that have nothing to do with content. Functioning as a student at the university requires a few different areas of technical competence. Expand the list below to highlight these skills so that you can prepare before beginning classes, thus allowing you to focus on your classes, not figuring out your computer, once the semester begins. Email right arrow down arrow Many students are comfortable with email, but many do not regularly check their email, nor do they understand proper “netiquette,” or writing requirements. In many classes, email may be your primary mode of communication with your professors, so you need to assure that you check it every day during the week. Additionally, you need to be sure that your emails are written professionally and appropriately in order to make a good impression. If you have questions about writing professional emails, check out Purdue University’s Email Etiquette Writing Lab on the topic for helpful guidelines. PowerPoint right arrow down arrow Some of your courses will require that you do individual or group presentations. Often times, your professors may expect you to use PowerPoint to present materials to your classmates or as a group. You can purchase this software at the bookstore for a discounted rate if you provide your UCID. Use the help feature to begin designing and learning how to create great presentations. Visit Microsoft’s PowerPoint tutorial page for short, online courses about using PowerPoint. These courses begin with the very basic, and proceed to explore some of the more complicated things you can do to make your presentations stand out in class! Word Processing right arrow down arrow Some of your courses will require journals, essays, research papers, and responses on required readings. You should know how to type and format papers, use spell check, insert tables and figures, and attach documents to emails. As a new member of the University of Cincinnati campus community, you can purchase Microsoft Word from the campus bookstore. During the summer, begin working with this software to learn the items mentioned above. You can also visit Microsoft’s Word tutorial page for short, online courses about Microsoft Word. Becoming familiar with a keyboard is of the utmost importance. Below are two free resources you can utilize to begin learning how to type papers. Good Typing Learn 2 Type Posting on Canvas right arrow down arrow During Summer Orientation, you received a username and password, as well as instructions on how to log into Canvas. Practice navigating in Canvas, using the discussion board, and posting messages. You may have some courses that will require you to post messages to the entire class or complete a test online. Canvas is a useful tool for communicating with your instructor about the course material and your grade in the class. It also serves as a link to other campus support services. Accessing Library Resources right arrow down arrow Langsam Library has a host of online resources to assist with your research and information needs. We encourage you to begin browsing through and learning how to use library catalog, research databases, journals and books. In addition, the library has links to other University of Cincinnati libraries. Langsam Library also provides workshops for students on a rotating array of topics. These include medical research, citation requirements, using library databases, and numerous other topics. Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top