Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Network Accessibility Network right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow About us Accessibility Commitment and Policy EIT Accessibility Plan FAQ's Accessibility 101 right arrow down arrow Accessibility Definitions Documents right arrow down arrow Microsoft Excel Accessibility right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint right arrow down arrow Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Websites right arrow down arrow Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Video & Media right arrow down arrow Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Purchasing right arrow down arrow Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist Canvas right arrow down arrow Ally for Canvas Course Syllabus Create an Accessible Canvas Course Checklist Training right arrow down arrow Digital Inclusion Day right arrow down arrow Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training right arrow down arrow Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Home » About UC » Electronic Accessibility » Getting Started » FAQ's Set Navigation title in component About us Accessibility Commitment and Policy EIT Accessibility Plan FAQ's Accessibility 101 Accessibility Definitions Frequently Asked Questions Welcome to the Accessibility Networks FAQ page. If you are new to accessibility, or have a specific question you would like answered, here is where you’ll find answers to some of our most frequently asked questions! General What is Electronic Accessibility? right arrow down arrow Accessibility generally refers to the “Equity of Access.” Disabled people have the civil right to access the same opportunities as people without disabilities. Electronic Accessibility extends this concept to information and communication technology. If you want to learn more about accessibility and electronic accessibility, visit the Accessibility Network’s Accessibility 101 page. What is the Accessibility Network? right arrow down arrow The Accessibility Network is a cross functional team of accessibility subject matter experts and technical experts from across campus that work towards and advocate greater electronic accessibility at UC. The Accessibility Network’s About Us page is a great place to start for more information on the Accessibility Network and how we came to be. What is eAccessibility for Electronic and Information Technology (EIT)? right arrow down arrow The accessibility of electronic and information technology (EIT) to all people, regardless of disability type or severity of impairment. In general, to be accessible, software must follow the four P.O.U.R. principles: Perceivable, Operable, Understandable, Robust. Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) is defined within UC’s EIT Accessibility Policy as: technology resources, software, applications, and services used by the university to make information and content available to faculty, staff, students, prospective students, guests, and visitors. EIT resources include, but are not limited to, the university’s websites, online learning (or eLearning) environment, and course management systems. Are there accessibility workshops available? right arrow down arrow The Accessibility Network offers workshops and tutorials for various accessibility concepts and topics to colleges and departments. Search faculty OneStop for available Accessibility Workshops. I’m a student and need accessibility accommodations for my class. Am I in the right place? right arrow down arrow For student academic accommodations visit Accessibility Resources’ page, or email Accessibility Resources (Accessresources@ucmail.uc.edu) for specific questions you might have. I’m a faculty member who has a student who needs accommodations in my class. Where do I go? right arrow down arrow Accessibility Resources’ Academic Accommodations and Faculty Responsibility page may have the answers you are looking for. If you have a more specific question please reach out to Accessibility Resources directly (Accessresources@ucmail.uc.edu). I’m a faculty or staff member who needs accessibility accommodations. Where do I go? right arrow down arrow If you require workplace accommodations for your day to day work, please reach out to Human Resources’ Workplace Accommodation page for more information. Canvas & Ally How do I create accessible content in Canvas? right arrow down arrow The Center for Excellence in Teaching and Learning (CET&L) has a wealth of resources available to faculty for Canvas. CET&L’s Preventing and Fixing Accessibility Issues in Canvas guide should answer your questions about creating accessible content in Canvas. How can I check my Canvas content for accessibility? right arrow down arrow Canvas offers several options to check the accessibility of content you’ve uploaded or created. If you’ve created content directly in the Rich Text Editor, you can use the Canvas Accessibility Checker. If you are uploading documents, you can use Ally to assess the accessibility of your content and receive direct feedback for ways to increase the accessibility of the content. Purchasing & Third Party Products I just purchased new software or am interested in procuring new software. Do I need to have it evaluated for accessibility? right arrow down arrow All software used at UC needs to be evaluated for accessibility. Many applications and software have been evaluated for accessibility already, but when in doubt you should submit a request to have your software reviewed for accessibility. The Accessibility Network’s Procurement page contains all the information you need to determine if your new software will be accessible to the UC community. What is my role in ensuring our third-party EIT product is accessible? right arrow down arrow As the person requesting the technology to be purchased or renewed, you are responsible for communicating with the person you are purchasing your technology from (vendor) to ensure the product is accessible. The Accessibility Network is available for guidance, resources and training. If you are selecting an EIT product, start by reviewing the EIT Purchases & Accessibility Procedures or follow these basics: Make accessibility a part of your selection criteria. Follow the accessibility checklist for software/applications to check the product’s basic eAccessibility. Ask the vendor about their accessibility commitment or policy. Ask them to provide you with a VPAT and the contact information for the person responsible for accessibility. Include accessibility language in your RFP, contracts, etc. Request an accessibility review from the Accessibility Network. Work with the Accessibility Network and your vendor to build an access plan if the completed review determines there are accessibility barriers within the product. What is a VPAT? right arrow down arrow In non-technical terms: A VPAT is a written document detailing how a product incorporates accessibility standards. The Accessibility Network uses this document as a starting point in assessing the EIT product for accessibility. Download the current VPAT™ template from the Information Technology Industry Council (ITI) website. In technical terms: A Voluntary Product Accessibility Template® (VPAT) is a document voluntarily provided by a vendor. The document includes a table containing information regarding how their information and communications technology product or service conforms with Section 508 of the U.S. Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. It does not confirm or guarantee the accessibility of a product. Why do I need a VPAT? right arrow down arrow The VPAT is a vendor document communicating their product’s conformance to accessibility laws. The Accessibility Network can use this document as a starting point in assessing the technology for accessibility. Having a VPAT on file also provides an accessibility audit trail. As a public university, we are required to follow Section 508 of the U.S. Rehabilitation Act. The law (29 U.S.C. § 794 (d)) applies to all Federal agencies when they develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and information technology. How do I ask for VPAT? right arrow down arrow When selecting your EIT product or working with your technology vendor, ask them about their accessibility commitment. You can use the following sample email to get started. Dear Vendor: As we assess your technology as a solution for the university, we would like to understand your commitment to accessibility. Please provide a copy of your VPAT or ACR (Accessibility Conformance Report) to be submitted to our Accessibility Network for review. Be sure to include the contact information of the person responsible for accessibility within your organization. The University of Cincinnati is committed to providing an electronic experience that is accessible to all and supports success for every student and employee, especially those with disabilities. The university does this in accordance with Section 508 of the U.S. Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. The law (29 U.S.C § 794 (d)) applies to all Federal agencies when they develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and information technology. What do I do once I have a VPAT? right arrow down arrow Once you have a VPAT from your vendor submit a request for an accessibility review from the Accessibility Network. The Accessibility Network will review your VPAT and do a risk assessment. Based on those outcomes, you will receive a communication with next steps. Will this hold up my purchase? right arrow down arrow Typically, no. However, it is the policy of the University of Cincinnati in accordance with Section 508 of the U.S. Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, to procure technology that is accessible. It is best to start this process as early as possible. In situations where deadlines are tight, please communicate this when submitting your request. The Accessibility Network will make every effort to work with you. Who can I contact if I have any questions? right arrow down arrow For questions regarding accessibility when purchasing/renewing technology, start with your purchasing contact within your college or department. If you need further assistance, please contact the Accessibility Network. Web and Social Media Do UC websites need to be accessible? right arrow down arrow Yes! Websites are a means of communicating information, and must be accessible to everyone. For more information about making your website accessible, visit the Accessibility Network’s Web Accessibility page. Documents, Course Syllabus & Videos I’m interested in captioning my videos. Where should I start? right arrow down arrow Great! The Accessibility Network has a number or resources and tutorials available for captioning your media content. Visit the Accessibility Network’s Video and Media [DJ1] page for more information on captioning your content. Training What Accessibility Tutorials are available? right arrow down arrow Information on specific accessibility topics are available in each of the Accessibility Network’s main pages: Documents Web Video and Media Purchasing Canvas University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top