Skip to main content Skip to main navigation About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Campus>The Vibrant Baylor Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus The Baylor campus is considered one of the most beautiful in the country. Alexander Hall was opened on September 13, 1940, and currently provides housing for the Honors Residential College. The McLean Foyer of Meditation within the Armstrong Browning Library takes its inspiration from Leighton House in London. The Courtside Players rev up volleyball and basketball crowds inside the Ferrell Center. Opened in 1999, Baylor Ballpark (part of the Turner Riverfront Complex) is one of the finest collegiate baseball facilities in the nation. Students voted in 1914 to name the bear the official "Patron Saint of all Baylordom." The Bearathon has earned a reputation as the "The Toughest Half-Marathon in the State of Texas." Judge Joy Reynolds ("Joy") and Judge Sue Sloan ("Lady") currently serve as Baylor's mascots. At Welcome Week, new students rock at "The Big Event" held at the Ferrell Center. Brooks College is a unique residential college at Baylor University that draws on lasting traditions, and orienting students toward meaningful relationships within a vital intellectual community. The Baylor Sciences Building creates a connection between the traditional science departments, encouraging an interactive science community and supporting multidisciplinary collaborations in research and teaching. The design of the Baylor Sciences Building supports diverse teaching and learning styles in an atmosphere which encourages learning both inside and outside the classroom and laboratory. Following the tradition of Burleson and Old Main, the Baylor Sciences Building is adorned with iconic spires. Erected in 1887 and dedicated to "female education and piety," Burleson Hall originally housed a female dormitory named in honor of President Rufus Burleson's wife, Georgia. Burleson Hall is currently home to the School of Education. Few locations at Baylor are more beautiful or more photographed than Burleson Quadrangle. Students gather in the Burleson Quadrangle near the heart of Baylor's campus. Baylor is large enough to offer the academic challenge students need and small enough to care about each student as an individual. Carroll Science Hall, a Baylor addition nearly 15 years after Old Main and Burleson Hall, is the beautiful home to several Arts and Sciences programs. The annual tree lighting ceremony is one the central events of the Christmas season at Baylor. For 20 years, Baylor students have joined with Mission Waco for Church Under the Bridge, a ministry of worship and service with people of diverse backgrounds. The culmination of the Baylor experience is commencement, when students receive their coveted diplomas and are commissioned for worldwide leadership and service. "The Day of the Bear," otherwise known as Diadeloso, started in 1934 as a way to "bring smiles to the faces of students" by giving them a break from classes. Concerts, games, competitions, and even camels highlight the annual "Day of the Bear" festivities. Baylor is like few other institutions -- set apart by an unwavering Christian identity, an enduring dedication to transformative education, and a strong and growing commitment to research. Research at Baylor offers graduate students the ability to learn alongside world-class faculty who enjoy an atmosphere in which research, teamwork, and faith are valued. Beginning as a single day in 1960, this special event provides a unique opportunity to introduce the University to parents and family members. Baylor faithful cheer the Bears and Lady Bears to victory in regular and postseason play in the Ferrell Center. Hankamer is open for business in the Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation. Students utilize Foster's state-of-the-art facilities to hone their skills and put their knowledge to the test. Students lounge and fellowship in the expansive atrium of the Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation. The Foster campus was dedicated in 2015 and serves as the home of the Hankamer School of Business. Freshman Follies is designed to give students a break after the first few weeks of school and allows them time to bond with their fellow freshmen over food fights, games, shaving cream wars, music and a dunking booth. Baylor's Habitat for Humanity chapter was the first collegiate chapter in the country, and it has remained an excellent opportunity for students to reach out and help the local community. The Simpson Athletics and Academic Center is the centerpiece of the Highers Athletics Complex at Baylor University. Since Nov. 24, 1909, the Baylor Homecoming parade has been a first-class extravaganza of color. Hooper-Schaefer is home to the Baylor theatre and art departments and includes three state-of-the-art theater spaces. HOWDY is Baylor's official TEXAS welcome and celebrates everything Baylor and everything Texas. Jones Concert Hall of the School of Music is a majestic, 1,000-seat hall located in the Glennis McCrary Music Building. Checked another one off the "bucket list." The statue of Judge R.E.B. Baylor was unveiled on Feb. 1, 1939, and and honors the university's namesake. Established in 2001, Late Night gives new students the opportunity to meet leaders from more than 160 student organizations and learn about the many opportunities for campus involvement. Baylor Line Camp provides incoming students their first high-energy experience and introduction to traditions. Opened in May 2004, the Sue and Frank Mayborn Natural Science and Cultural History Museum Complex brings together the resources of the Harry and Anna Jeanes Discovery Center and the Gov. Bill and Vara Daniel Historic Village. Each season, thousands of green- and gold-clad Bear fans fill McLane Stadium for Big 12 Conference action. Located on the banks of the Brazos River the 45,000-seat McLane Stadium is home to Baylor Bear football. The McMullen-Connally Faculty Center provides spacious and modern dining for faculty, executive staff, prospective faculty candidates and visiting speakers. Minglewood Bowl is a popular location for pick-up football games. Minglewood Bowl sits nestled between Brooks College and Brooks Flats along Waco Creek and is a favorite student hang-out. Baylor students serve in ministry opportunities year-round -- to understand and use the knowledge and skills they gain at Baylor to serve people around the world. One of the earliest structures on campus, Old Main originally housed classrooms, a library, laboratories, a studio and a chapel. Fall brings wonderful color to campus - here adorning Pat Neff Hall with Baylor gold. Occasionally, Waco receives a dusting of snow that gives Pat Neff Hall and Founders Mall a wintry beauty. The green lit dome reflects another home athletic victory. Located between Waco Hall and Pat Neff Hall, Founders Mall is dedicated to the three men whose vision and leadership brought Christian higher education to Texas. The Paul W. Powell Chapel features stained glass windows illustrating characteristics that enhance the gifts of a person answering God's call to ministry. The beautiful Robbins Chapel sits in the Brooks Village between Brooks College and Brooks Flats. The chapel serves the Brooks community as a place to gather for prayer, service, and quiet contemplation. Santa's Workshop is an event to provide an uplifting Christmas experience for children from the Waco community. The Paul L. Foster Success Center brings together an assortment of academic and career support offices to assist students. As the sun sets on Baylor's campus, memorial lampposts adorned with Baylor banners light the ways of time. The spires of Burleson and Old Main and the dome of Pat Neff frame a beautiful Central Texas sunset. All University Sing has been a tradition since 1953. Student organizations perform 7-minute, Broadway style productions in competition with one another. Established in 1857, the Baylor Law School moved into the beautiful Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center in 2001. The facility is situated on the banks of the Brazos River. Waco Creek provides a peaceful walkway stretching from the Family and Consumer Sciences Building to the Bear Habitat. Waco Hall was built in the late 1920s with the help of the Waco community, assuring Baylor University would remain in Waco. Baylor School of Social Work students learn about human dignity, the power of hope, the need for justice, caring as the foundation for effective change, and service that transforms lives and communities. The McLane Student Life Center is the hub of student recreational life at Baylor. Moody Library is one of several Baylor libraries that together house over 2.5 million bound volumes as well as numerous electronic resources. Getterman Stadium opened in 1999 and houses one of the nation's premier collegiate softball programs. Dedicated in 2015, the Rosenbalm Fountain brings the fountain back to Fountain Mall. The fountain bowl is 4-feet high and 20 feet in diameter and weighs more than 17,000 tons. Water jets and lights create a majestic display to Baylor's already beautiful campus. Within a Christian community, the Louise Herrington School of Nursing prepares nurses for professional practice, health care leadership and service to society. In the Baptist tradition of Baylor University, the Robbins Chapel provides a spiritually inspiring location for personal or small group worship and prayer. Steppin' Out strives to enhance student involvement in community service and attain community awareness, interaction and collaboration between Baylor University and the Waco community. Steppin' Out is a campus-wide day of service to the Waco community. The Baylor community gathers as a family to enjoy some fall festivities and share a Thanksgiving meal. Baylor's Theatre Arts Department is an elite program combining an excellent liberal arts education with rigorous training in both academic and artistic fields of theatre study. Tidwell Bible Building is a place for research, instruction and worship, a living memorial to longtime Baylor religion professor Josiah Blake Tidwell. Truett Seminary students meet to grow in self-discovery, the practice of spiritual disciplines, worship and discussion, all in preparation for life in Christian ministry. George W. Truett Theological Seminary is a traditional, evangelical seminary committed to our historic Baptist principles. Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor About Baylor Joining the Baylor family is an opportunity to experience a top academic environment within a dynamic Christian community. Ask Baylor Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories