Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Media and Public RelationsMenu Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena Baylor Entrepreneurship Professor Wins Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award Leslie Palich, Ph.D., The W.A. (Agnes) Mays Professor of Entrepreneurship in Baylor University’s Hankamer School of Business, has received a Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to Ireland and will engage in research with faculty at Dublin City University as part of a project to study ethical attitudes and behaviors of entrepreneurs and small business owners. Tweet April 4, 2022 Media Contact: Lori Fogleman, Baylor University Media and Public Relations, 254-709-5959 Follow us on Twitter: @BaylorUMedia by Kate Nelson, student news writer, Baylor University Media and Public Relations WACO, Texas (April 4, 2022) – Leslie Palich, Ph.D., The W.A. (Agnes) Mays Professor of Entrepreneurship in Baylor University’s Hankamer School of Business, has received a Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to Ireland, a prestigious and competitive fellowship of the Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Fulbright Scholar Awards give exceptional opportunities to the best of U.S. scholars to teach and research abroad, a role important to international diplomacy as they build relationships between people and nations. The program is supported by the Institute of International Education’s Council for International Exchange of Scholars. As a Fulbright U.S. Scholar, Palich will work with the entrepreneurship faculty at Dublin City University in Ireland for the Fall 2022 semester. His studies will include researching ethical standards of Irish small business owners and entrepreneurs as well as writing business cases on ventures selected by project participants. “The primary project that I have planned will be an exploration of the ethical attitudes of small business owners in Ireland and the implications of various ethical values on venture conduct and performance outcomes,” Palich said. Palich will write papers based on his research project and small business cases studies for publication in academic journals. Such work is “important to building Baylor’s reputation and will support the research thrust of our strategic vision,” he said. Furthermore, his time in Ireland will give him the opportunity to build relationships with DCU faculty, opening up possibilities for future research collaboration and opportunities with Baylor scholars. “A Fulbright Scholarship is a prestigious honor, and this is a great recognition for Dr. Palich, for our department and for Baylor,” said Peter Klein, Ph.D., The W. W. Caruth Endowed Chair, professor of entrepreneurship and chair of the Department of Entrepreneurship and Corporate Innovation. “Dublin City University has a strong entrepreneurship program, and Les expects to build relationships with the excellent faculty there that will hopefully lead to future cooperative efforts between our two institutions.” Strengthening global connections Palich’s Fulbright Scholar Award and research exemplifies one of the many ways Baylor professors are leaders in their field, building international connections as a Research 1 institution and developing programs that aid the educational development of their students. “I have always taught global business classes or have expanded on international dimensions related to the standard courses assigned to me,” Palich said. “After all, every facet of life is impacted by globalization either directly or indirectly, so it is important to understand how best to position what we do against that reality.” A member of the business school faculty since 1991, Palich said his main desire is for Baylor to gain international recognition. “I see this as another way that I can serve the institution, which has been very good to me over my many years on the faculty, but above all else, I hope my involvement as a Fulbright Scholar will bring honor and recognition to Baylor and the precious faith we all share,” he said. ABOUT HANKAMER SCHOOL OF BUSINESS AT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY At Baylor University’s Hankamer School of Business, top-ranked programs combine rigorous classroom learning, hands-on experience in the real world, a solid foundation in Christian values and a global outlook. Making up approximately 25 percent of the University’s total enrollment, undergraduate students choose from 13 major areas of study. Graduate students choose from full-time, executive or online MBA or other specialized master’s programs, and Ph.D. programs in Information Systems, Entrepreneurship or Health Services Research. The Business School also has a campus located in Dallas, Texas. Visit baylor.edu/business for more information. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked Research 1 institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 20,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 90 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. More News ... News Archives Looking for more news from Baylor University? Tweets by @BaylorUMedia Contact Us mail Media and Public Relations Baylor University One Bear Place #97024 Waco, TX 76798 tel (254) 710-1961 Email mediacomm@baylor.edu More Contact Info Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Baylor Bears 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Baylor Religion Survey Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Detecting Biomarkers for Cancer Eye Cancer App Helps Save Lives Exhuming Immigrant Remains Fighting Tropical Diseases Higgs Boson Research iCivics Baylor Model Life Patterns in Extreme Environments Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Small Business and Community Health Research Texas Hunger Initiative Water Quality Research Whale Earplug Reveals Lifetime Contaminant Exposure and Hormone Profiles Data Privacy Day 2019 Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Dean's Academic Honor List Graduation List Academic Scholarship Awards List Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena