Skip to main content Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search University of Oregon Sites Search Site Navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions Financial Aid & Scholarships Cost of Attendance International Students En Español Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University of Oregon Main navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Main menu Admissions Financial Aid & Scholarships Cost of Attendance International Students En Español Admissions and Financial Aid APPLY REQUIREMENTS FINANCIAL AID, SCHOLARSHIPS & COSTS MAJORS & MINORS LAW SCHOOL GRADUATE SCHOOL Meet us halfway to get all the way here Whether you’re applying from Oregon or from out of state, as an undergraduate or a graduate, we can help you through the process. Request information, schedule a visit, or contact an admissions counselor in your area to find the information you need to apply. Request Information Schedule a Visit Find Your Admissions Counselor $246 million, every year That’s the amount the UO gives students each year. Our job is to keep the UO affordable. About 65 percent of our undergraduates receive some type of financial aid. To one of the top public research institutions in the nation. Costs Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Learn to Fly Reasons to come here are as varied as the opportunities you’ll find. 3,000 courses to choose from. Countless chances to discover what you’re made of and passionate about. Freedom to mix things up. Combine physics with business and this with that. Collaborate with others from around the world, conduct real research, and get a world-class education. So when you leave here, you‘ll be ready to soar. Why UO? UO Facts Photos & Videos CAMPUS News Events Maps Directions A–Z Index Find People Report a Concern TOOLS Webmail UOmail Canvas Duckweb RESOURCES Class Schedule Academic Calendar UO Libraries For Journalists University of Oregon 1585 E 13th Ave. Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-1000 Contact Us Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Vimeo Visit us on Instagram Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.