Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Hiring, Hosting and Admitting » Using iBearcatsGlobal Set Navigation title in component Hiring International Workers Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Using iBearcatsGlobal eForms for UC Departments Any international visitor, employee or student at the University of Cincinnati must be added to the iBearcatsGlobal database. We recommend that departments identify a staff member who will submit all eForm requests on their behalf. After you gain access to iBearcatsGlobal, you will be able to Create a UCID number for a visitor Create an iBearcatsGlobal record for a visitor Submit an eForm request Gaining Access Go to the iBearcatsGlobal webpage. Click on "Administrative Services for University Departments." Click on "Departmental Access Request" and fill out the required information. You will receive email confirmation once your access is granted. Creating a UCID Number for an eForm Submission In order to submit an eForm request, international visitors must have a UCID number and a record in UC International's iBearcatsGlobal database. In general, international visitors fall into one of three groups in iBearcatGlobal. For each group, there is a different way to generate a UCID number and to get the visitor entered into iBearcatGlobal. those working for or being paid by the University; (2) those collaborating with, but who are not being paid by, the University; and (3) those enrolled for classes. Group 1: Visitors who will work for / be paid by UC right arrow down arrow Group 1 includes E-3, H-1B, J-1, TN, O-1 and other visitors who will be paid by UC. Enter the visitor into UCFlex prior to submitting an eForm request. After a UCID number is created, add the individual to iBearcatGlobal using the “Add New Person” eForm. Group 2: Visitors who will not be paid by UC right arrow down arrow Group 2 is for visitors who will NOT be paid by UC. This is most typically J-1 Exchange Visitors These are individuals coming to participate in collaborative projects using personal funds, government scholarships, home institutional support, or other sponsorships. It also includes those being paid by affiliates such as Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center These individuals can have a UCID number generated in two ways, depending upon how the sponsoring department wants them classified and what access to university facilities and systems they want given. in cases where the traditional hiring process is being followed, use UC Flex to create the UCID number. Using UC Flex will assign a University title to the individual and grant them access to things like BOL accounts, Blackboard, etc. Add the individual to iBearcatGlobal using the “Add New Person” eForm. In cases where UC titles and access to certain services are not desired, generate a UC ID number using the GETit "create identity" system. When you create an ID using GETit, you will specify a "badge type" and "title." The "title" should be "Visiting Scholar." The "badge type" should say "Special Programs" if the visitor is coming to conduct research or engage in teaching. The "badge type" should be "Visiting Student" if the visitor is a graduate student overseas who is coming to UC to conduct research and will not be enrolled in classes. Once a UCID number is generated, use the “Add New Person” eForm to add the individual to iBearcatGlobal. Group 3: Student who will be enrolled at UC right arrow down arrow Group 3 is students who will be enrolled at UC, including exchange students. Degree students have an iBearcatGlobal record created upon application to UC. Exchange students must have a Basic Data Form processed by the Registrar’s Office. The M number will be sent to iBearcatGlobal electronically within 24 hours, as long as the country of birth/citizenship fields are completed on the Basic Data Form. Once a UCID has been created and the individual’s basic information is in iBearcatGlobal, the department can then submit the appropriate eForm. Temporary ID Numbers right arrow down arrow In time-sensitive cases, the iBearcatGlobal record can be created using a system-generated “TEMP” ID. When completing the “Add new Person” eForm, answer “No” to the question “do you have an institutional university ID for this new profile?” You still need to generate a UCID number for the visitor. Send an email to international.students@uc.edu with the UCID so the iBearcatGlobal record can be updated. Creating an iBearcatsGlobal Record for Visitors Once authorized as a user and the UCID has been generated for the visitor, departmental staff can go to the “Departmental Services” section of iBearcatsGlobal click on the plus (+) sign to expand the eForm options select the “Add New Person” link. Submitting an eForm Request Once you have obtained a UCID number and the individual’s basic information is in iBearcatGlobal, you are ready to submit an eForm request. You have options to submit visa-specific eForms, including: H-1B Specialty Workers J-1 Exchange Visitors E-3 workers O-1 Aliens of Extraordinary Ability TN workers Permanent resident petitions There is also an eForm called “Other Immigration Statuses” that can be used for any international visitor authorized to work in a status not listed above. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top