Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) Apply Visit Request More Info Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork and Internships Program Outcomes Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Social Work The Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) in the School of Social Work at Temple’s College of Public Health prepares students for entry-level social work careers advancing social justice and working with individuals, families and communities in need. The BSW program—offered both online and in-person—focuses on societal transformation, and students learn about issues such as institutional racism, health disparities and poverty in Philadelphia’s dynamic urban setting. Social work involves helping individuals and communities address social problems such as domestic violence, elder care abuse, recidivism, housing discrimination, homelessness, immigration issues, substance abuse and more. Social workers connect constituents to agencies that provide behavioral healthcare, housing assistance, legal aid, medical care, training programs, and other social services and interventions. The degree program focuses on understanding human behavior using a person-in-environment perspective. As a student in the BSW program, you will focus on how biological and social factors contribute to human development; how families, organizations and communities interact; how to evaluate programs; how to identify various forms of oppression and develop cultural competence; and how to advocate for individuals and social groups. You will develop the experience, expertise and ethics to address social problems competently and professionally. BSW graduates are trained for entry-level careers in social work practice in areas such as aging, children and families, and mental health. Many students pursue Master of Social Work (MSW) programs. A master’s degree in social work is required in order to become a licensed clinical social worker. Learn about Temple’s Master of Social Work program. What sets our BSW program apart? Real-world experience: You will learn to integrate theory and hands-on skills through field practicum courses. Students can choose from placements at more than 500 human service and social change organizations in the Philadelphia region and beyond. Student and faculty diversity: Our students come from a broad range of ethnic, geographic and socioeconomic backgrounds, and a variety of life experiences. This enriches classroom interactions, in both theory- and practice-oriented courses. Renowned faculty: The School of Social Work’s faculty are recognized nationally as experts in areas such as aging, children and families, disability, incarceration, LGBTQ health, mental health, and substance abuse. Online completion option: Intended for working professionals, community college students and recent community college graduates, the BSW completion program is a 60-credit program offered fully online. Students utilizing the online option have access to the same courses as those in the on-campus program and complete the BSW through live, synchronous coursework taught by the same renowned faculty. Program Format Students in the on-site BSW program complete 120 credits of coursework, including 54 credits of professional courses in social work. You can complete the in-person BSW program full time in two years or part time in four years. The online BSW program can also be completed full time in two years or part time in four years. Classes take place in the evening one or two days a week. Fieldwork and internship opportunities allow students to integrate theory and hands-on skills during intensive internship experiences. See a full list of program courses. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Social Work offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Online option: $610 per credit Our Academic Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising services to students in each department. Our advising staff will work with you to set goals and help you reach your academic potential. Meet our academic advisors. Related Graduate Degrees Master of Social Work (MSW) Master of Public Health in Applied Biostatistics Master of Public Health in Epidemiology Master of Public Health in Health Policy and Management Master of Public Health in Social and Behavioral Sciences Student Clubs & Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Study Away Become an informed, active global citizen and enrich your education by studying away. Explore Temple’s study abroad opportunities, including information about specific programs and visas, as well as resources on cultural adaptation, diversity matters, and health and safety. Learn more about studying away. SW-SSWU-BSWK Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork and Internships Program Outcomes Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info