Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Human Resources Retirement Retirement Medicare Social Security Working at SMU Working at SMU Staff Careers Faculty Careers Temporary Jobs Student Jobs Internal Applicant Get Involved Living In Dallas Benefits & Wellness Benefits & Wellness Health and Other Benefits Wellness Information Learning & Development Learning & Development Total Orientation Process for New Employees On-Demand Learning Professional Development Manager Development Workshops Manager Orientation Enrollment Instructions Cancel Enrollment or Switch Sessions Customized Learning Experiences Consultation FAQ for the LawRoom Training Tutorials Workshop Facilitators HR Training Room Linked-In Learning Courses Manager Lunch and Learn Series SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Continuing Education Credits/Units - Proof of Attendance Reference Library Training Summary Resources Resources New Employee Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Work-Life Resources Manager Resources Retiree Resources Safety at SMU SMU's Mission and Code of Ethics Forms Forms All HR Forms & Resources Benefits Compensation General HR Forms Exiting SMU Performance Review Employee Recognition Talent Acquisition and Management ☰ Human Resources Human Resources Learning & Development Manager Orientation Manager Orientation SMU knows that managers play a key role in living out the mission and achieving the goals of the University. The objective of this orientation program is to support a new manager's successful transition to a supervisory role within the University. New managers participating in the program will have 12 months to complete all requirements. Manager Orientation is designed to provide those supervising staff with essential skills and key information needed to successfully manage both employee performance and organizational initiatives. Managers will benefit from understanding University policies and procedures, knowing the right people to contact for assistance, and learning critical skills that support successful working relationships. Who Should Attend? SMU offers the New Manager Orientation Program for: Newly hired staff members who supervise others Current staff members promoted to a managerial position Current staff and faculty managers who wish to participate Staff and faculty members aspiring to future management positions Newly hired staff members who supervise others or current staff members promoted to a managerial position on or after August 30, 2010 will be required to complete the program. Staff or faculty members who aspire to management and wish to take courses may enroll as well. The New Manager's Responsibility The Manager Orientation workshops are to be completed within the first calendar year of the employee's new role with the University. Managers are responsible for ensuring they complete the requirements for Manager Orientation. Employees may view completion of all Professional Development Workshops and Manager Orientation workshops by logging into my.SMU and navigating to Self Service> Learning and Development>Training Summary. A summary of workshops completed, enrolled in, or cancelled will be generated. Manager Orientation Requirements A minimum of 6 classes must be completed within 12 months of a new manager's hire or promotion date. Three classes are required, and the remaining three may be chosen from a list of electives. Managers may complete as many additional courses as desired. Some classes have prerequisites. Newly hired managers must also meet all Total Orientation Process requirements. Log on to my.SMU>Self Service> Learning and Development>Training Enrollment>Course Name Search>Search to see the most current schedule of all Manager Orientation and Professional Development classes available for enrollment. Manager Orientation Introduction to HR Legal and Risk Management Manager Orientation Schedule Manager Orientation Overview Progress Tracking Workplace Discrimination Issues for Managers Can't find what you need? DevelopU@smu.edu 214-768-3311 Quick Links Enroll Now! How to Enroll in a Class Manager Orientation: Required and Elective Workshops Class Descriptions and Schedule Progress Tracking Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share