Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Admissions and Arrival » Next Steps to Enroll Set Navigation title in component Cost and Finances Apply to UC Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Next Steps to Enroll Congratulations on your acceptance to the University of Cincinnati! From all of us at UC International, we can't wait to welcome you into our global Bearcat family. Before you step foot on campus, you will need to confirm your admission set up your UC email and receive your UCID number submit your sources of financial support receive your I-20 or DS-2019 find housing pay the SEVIS fee apply for a visa finish the pre-arrival checklist in iBearcatsGlobal Confirm your admission Once you've been accepted to a program, confirm your admission. Study on a visa status other than F-1 or J-1 right arrow down arrow If you are a non-immigrant visa holder (E-2, H-4, L-2, etc) you are allowed to study on that status. Email international.students@uc.edu for instructions. Study in your home country right arrow down arrow If you are admitted into one of our distance learning programs, you will not be able to obtain a visa to enter the United States. Email international.students@uc.edu to confirm that you have been admitted to a distance learning program and that you will be studying in your home country. Undergraduate Students Undergraduate students can confirm their admission online. Confirm admission and accept scholarship right arrow down arrow The first step after being admitted to a program is to confirm admission. Completing the confirmation form and paying the $100 fee means that you accepts your admission to the University of Cincinnati. It's a time to celebrate! If awarded scholarships, the second step is to complete the International Scholarship Acceptance Form. A link to this form is located in your application portal. This is the same account where the admission letter is located. Send final transcripts right arrow down arrow Admission offers are contingent upon successful completion of high school coursework. Students must submit an official final high school transcript to verify graduation. Submit this prior to New Student Orientation. If a final high school transcript is not submitted by the time the semester begins, your scholarship award will not be made available and you may be removed from the courses they enrolled in. Learn how to report final A-level or IB transcripts. Learn more about how your advanced credit may apply to your degree. If your high school cannot submit a final transcript with grades because your examinations were delayed or canceled due to the COVID-19 pandemic, contact international.admissions@uc.edu with an explanation. Take Math Placement Test (MPT) right arrow down arrow The Math Placement Test (MPT) is carefully designed by UC Math Faculty to assess math ability and correctly place students into a UC math course. All students are required to take the Math Placement Test unless majoring in a performance major within the College-Conservatory of Music, otherwise you should complete the MPT prior to meeting with your advisor. If you completed the MPT for your application and scholarship review, you will need to take the test again. It's important that your academic advisor knows your current math ability. If the score earned from the first test is higher than the second test, you may request this score be used for class placement by emailing international.admissions@uc.edu. For more information about the MPT and to register to take the test visit the MPT webpage. Register for orientation right arrow down arrow First-Year Students All first-year students are required to attend New Student Orientation also called Bearcats Bound Orientation (BBO). New Student Orientation registration will open on March 1. All students are required to attend. Students meet their academic advisors to schedule classes, talk about academic plans, and learn about how to be a UC student. Learn more about orientation Transfer Students Transfer students are not required to attend BBO because the colleges organize transfer student orientation differently than freshman student orientation. Refer to the confirmed student webpage to learn what you need to do next. Graduate Students Graduate students will receive instructions on confirming their admission from their department. Set up your UC email and get your UCID number Once you've committed to the University of Cincinnati, you will need your UCID number. You will also need to set up your UC email and check it often for updates. Create my student email account Get my UCID number Submit sources of financial support International students are required to submit documents showing their financial support using an eForm on iBearcatsGlobal, UC International's online system for international students. Demonstrate financial support right arrow down arrow You must demonstrate that you have financial support for all years of study for your degree. You will be able to submit these documents using the Sources of Financial Support eForm in the Pre-Arrival Checklist in iBearcatsGlobal. You will be sent an email with log in credentials within 72 hours of being admitted. Please do not email these documents to us. Check our estimated expenses page to determine the amount you have to certify. Any UC scholarships can be deducted from this amount, but you need to provide proof of the scholarship There is no deadline for submitting financial certification forms, but you will not be issued a Certificate of Eligibility (I-20 / DS-2019) until they are received. You will need to get the I-20/DS-2019 in time to apply for your visa and arrive for your intended semester of study. Submit your financial documents as soon as possible, but no sooner than 6 months prior to your start date at UC. When completing the Financial Certification Form, also linked in the Sources of Financial Support eForm in iBearcatsGlobal, clearly state your name as it appears in your passport. Financial Documentation Requirements All financial documents should be dated and cannot be more than 6 months old. Documents can include: bank statements certificates of deposit letters/statements from sponsors that show how much they receive annually from employment letters or emails from UC departments about scholarships/assistantships information from governments about sponsorships bank/education loan award letters letters of support from current overseas employers All documents should state in English who the account owner is, the current balance, and the currency being used. Deposits stated on the bank statements/certificate of deposits do not need to be frozen. Scholarships Unless otherwise stated in the award letter, UC scholarships and assistantships that you have been awarded are considered renewable as long as you maintain good academic standing. For example, if you have been awarded a UC scholarship for $10,000.00, you can include this in your estimates as a source of support for each year of study. Please make sure to upload a copy of your scholarship with your other financial documents. Sponsors A sponsor can be anyone: parents, other family members, friends, or agencies. A sponsor only needs to show that they have the first year of support of their intended annual support on deposit. So, for example, if they are committed to providing you $10,000.00 per year, they only need to show that they have $10,000.00 on deposit at this time. It is presumed they understand, and are committed to, their financial obligation to you and to raise this amount for each year of study for you. The sponsor will need to complete page two of our Financial Certification form, linked to the Sources of Financial Support eForm in iBearcatsGlobal, and provide their financial documents to you with this form. Personal Funds “Personal funds” is any amount that you, the student, has on deposit in your name. Because you will not be in a position to be able to work or raise additional funding while studying in the US, your personal funds will be divided by the number of years that we estimate it will take for you to complete your studies. For example, if you have $20,0000.00 on deposit and you are applying for a two year Master’s degree, then you have $10,0000.00 available for each year of study. Loans Bank/Education Loan awards are usually awarded as one lump sum. Therefore, the amount awarded will be divided by the number of years we estimate it will take for you to complete your degree. The letters must state that the loan has been awarded. Letters that state that you have only applied will not be accepted. Letters that state the loan is provisional/conditional will need to state what those provisions/conditions are. If there is anyone’s name on the loan other than your own, they should complete the affidavit of support form. Room and Board Affidavit If you will be living with someone in the Cincinnati area that will provide you free room and board you can also submit the Room and Board Affidavit (which is linked in the Sources of Financial Support eForm in iBearcatsGlobal). Submission of this form will eliminate the need to show, in financial terms, the cost of living expenses associated with the I-20. Do not submit this form unless you have someone in the US that you will be living with while you are studying. Review Period When you submit your financial documents for review, it will take no longer than five business days to review and provide you feedback. If your documentation does not qualify for an I-20 to be issued, you will be sent an email explaining why. You can then make changes to your documentation and resubmit them using the Sources of Financial Support eForm in iBearcatsGlobal in the pre-arrival checklist. Provide documentation for dependents (if applicable) right arrow down arrow If you plan on having accompanying dependents (spouse / children) in F-2 or J-2 status, provide biographical and immigration information regarding those dependents using the Add a New Dependent eForm found at iBearcatsGlobal. Each dependent will then receive his/her own I-20 or DS-2019 to apply for their visa. Apply for Housing (undergraduates) The Housing Office manages all residence halls, dining halls, and the housing application. The Housing application is open March 1 through May 5. View residence hall styles View residence hall rates Requirements right arrow down arrow Students living outside of the U.S. are required to live on campus the first year. You must complete the Housing application to live on campus. Student in the U.S. who live 50 miles (80.5 km) or more from the UC campus are required to live on campus the first year. If would like to live with a relative that lives in Cincinnati, OH, email the Housing Office. Room and Roommates right arrow down arrow Room selection will be emailed to your UC email address at the beginning June through July. Roommate profiles can be searched in the Housing portal. If you plan to have one or more roommates, create or join a roommate group before room selection begins in June. Find Housing (Graduates) Check out our housing webpage with resources to finding temporary housing, on-campus housing and off-campus housing. Receive I-20 or DS-2019 After you submit your financial certification form, you will be mailed a Certificate of Eligibility. You need this document to apply for your visa. F-1 students will receive an I-20 J-1 students will receive a DS-2019 You will receive periodic email updates on the status of your I-20 or DS-2019. When your I-20 or DS-2019 is ready, it will be emailed to your UC email. Set up your UC email and regularly check it. Request express mail right arrow down arrow UC International recommends having your I-20 / DS-2019 sent by express mail. Regular mail overseas takes 4 - 6 weeks. To request express mail service, go to study.eshipglobal.com. We have discounted express mail rates negotiated with DHL and FedEx through eshipglobal. Do not go through the DHL or FedEx websites directly. Our office will be notified once you have requested a shipment. If you have issues registering and processing a shipment, please use the website "Help" section for instructions. If you have additional questions, email support@eshipglobal.com. Pay the SEVIS fee Before you can apply for a visa, you must pay a SEVIS fee to the US Department of Homeland Security. Read all the instructions before paying the fee. The SEVIS fee can be paid by credit card over the internet, by check, or by money order by mail. If you are applying for F-1 status, the SEVIS fee is $350. If you are applying for J-1 status, the SEVIS fee is $220. The fee must be paid at least three business days prior to the scheduled date of your interview in order for the payment information to show up on the SEVIS system. Bring your I-901 receipt with you to your visa interview. A paper receipt can be used as verification in place of the internet verification. Pay the SEVIS fee School codes right arrow down arrow In order to complete your SEVIS fee form, you will need your I-20 or DS-2019 and the University of Cincinnati's School Code. Our school codes are: CLE214F10355000 for F-1 students with an I-20 P-1-00733 for J-1 students/scholars with a DS-2019 Payment options right arrow down arrow DHS allows you or anyone else to pay your SEVIS fee using a credit card, Western Union, or by check/money order. Pay by credit card right arrow down arrow We strongly recommend paying by credit card if possible. After paying the fee, print out the payment screen as verification. Take this payment verification with you to your visa interview. If you are from one of the following countries, you cannot pay with a credit card: Cameroon Ghana Kenya Nigeria Pay using Western Union right arrow down arrow If you live in a country where Western Union offers its "Quick Pay" service, you can pay the SEVIS fee using the company. You will still fill out the Form I-901 online and take a payment coupon to Western Union to complete the transaction. Bring your online payment confirmation to your visa interview. More instructions are available on the SEVIS website. Find your nearest Western Union Pay with check or money order right arrow down arrow When paying by check or money order, there are two options: Internet-generated coupon Students & scholars can go to the fee payment website, enter basic information, print out a coupon, and then mail a check or money order. Once the information and fee are processed, SEVIS will be updated with the fee payment information. Paper option Students & scholars can download or obtain Form I-901, fill it in, and mail it with a check or money order. Once the information and fee are processed, SEVIS will be updated with the fee payment information. All checks and money orders must be made payable to the "I-901 Student/Exchange Visitor Processing Fee." The check or money order must be made in US dollars and drawn on a bank located in the US. You will receive a receipt notice when the fee is processed. Do I have to pay the SEVIS fee? right arrow down arrow You need to pay the SEVIS fee if: You are seeking an F-1 or J-1 visa for initial attendance at a university or initial participation in an exchange program. The fee must be paid before applying for the visa. You will enter the U.S. in F-1 or J-1 status, but are not required to have a visa. The fee must be paid before you apply for admission to the US. You are applying for a change of status to F-1 or J-1. The fee must be paid before you submit your change of status application. You do not need to pay the SEVIS fee if: You are an F-2 or J-2 dependent. You are a J-1 participant in an exchange program sponsored by the US government. You are transferring to another school, program, or program category. You are requesting an extension. You paid the fee, your application for a visa was denied and, within 12 months of the denial, you re-apply for the same status. I was admitted to more than one school. What do I do? right arrow down arrow If you have been accepted to more than one institution and paid the fee using the SEVIS ID number of another institution, but you wish to attend UC, you will not have to pay the fee again. Bring the I-20 or DS-2019 of both the schools to the consulate or port-of-entry and tell the officer you will be a student or scholar at the University of Cincinnati. Apply for a visa Once you have confirmed your admission, received your I-20 or DS-2019 and paid the SEVIS fee, you can apply for your student visa. You can apply at any US consulate or embassy, but it may be more difficult outside of your country. Complete the DS-160, the online application for a nonimmigrant visa. Find the embassy or consulate closest to you. Select a time for your appointment. Appointments are mandatory for all visas, and some US embassies and consulates require appointments to be made at least four to eight weeks in advance. Apply for your visa well before the date you would like to depart for Cincinnati so you can arrive in time to begin your program. Documents to bring to your visa interview right arrow down arrow Passport Required photo(s) Visa fee or proof of visa fee payment SEVIS fee payment receipt U.S. nonimmigrant visa application forms (unless you will completing it at the consulate or embassy) University of Cincinnati admission letter or departmental invitation letter University of Cincinnati I-20 or DS-2019 Test scores and academic records Proof of English proficiency Proof of financial support (if applicable) Evidence of ties to your home country Any other documents required by the embassy or consulate Interview tips right arrow down arrow US law states that F and J visas may be given only to persons who intend to be in the US temporarily. You must prove that you intend to return to your country after completing your program. Follow these tips: Show a definite academic or professional objective. You must know what you are going to study and where it will lead. Be ready to say what you want to study, what kind of career it will prepare you for in your home country and why it is better for you to study in the US than at home. Show that you are qualified for the program. Be definite about your choice of schools. If you are not certain that you want to study at the University of Cincinnati, you will not get a visa. Show adequate financing and have documents to prove it. You may not plan to use employment as support while you are in the US. Remain calm and impersonal when speaking to the consular officer. Do not try to negotiate or discuss personal matters. Do not emphasize any ties you may have to the United States or to family members in the United States. US government officials are convinced more easily by written documents than by spoken statements. When possible, show your connections to your home country. Your visa application, if at least part of your financial support comes from your home country. If your family owns property, take the deeds. If you have a brother or sister who studied in the US and then returned home, take a copy of the brother’s or sister’s diploma and a statement showing that they have returned home. If possible, show that an individual or company in your home country will give you a job when you return. If you cannot get a promise of a job, get a letter saying that you will be considered for a job. If your family owns a business, take letters from a bank describing the business. After your visa is approved right arrow down arrow If you have been accepted, congratulations! Start completing UC's pre-arrival checklist. Purchase your airfare to the United States. Enter the United States up to 30 days before the start date on your I-20 or DS-2019. What to do if your visa is denied right arrow down arrow Most UC students and scholars will be successful in obtaining their visas, but a small number have their visa applications denied. The visa officer must verbally inform you of the reason for the visa denial. If your visa is denied, email UC International at international.students@uc.edu. Provide the date and location of your visa interview, and the reason given by the visa officer for the denial. We will help you reapply or determine your next steps. You may reapply for a visa within 12 months without having to pay the SEVIS fee again. Complete the pre-arrival checklist All incoming students are required to complete our pre-arrival checklist in iBearcatsGlobal. You will use the checklist to request your I-20 or DS-2019 get scheduled for orientation request a ride from the airport complete the "Immigration Review" schedule a mandatory health screening get connected to on-campus resources UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top