Harvard University COVID-19 updates Department Message from the Chair News Seminars and Events Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Community Administration Courses News Archive Job Opportunities Contact Faculty Faculty Profiles Research Areas Preceptors and Lecturers Postdoctoral Postdoctoral Overview Postdoctoral Profiles Postdoctoral Funding Postdoctoral Community Postdoctoral Career Development Postdoctoral Resources Graduate MCO Program MCO Alumni Other Graduate Programs MCO Intranet Undergraduate Undergraduate Overview Molecular and Cellular Biology (MCB) MCB Secondary Field Chemical and Physical Biology (CPB) Neuroscience Resources Directory Associated Research Centers and Departments Library Research Facilities MCB Graphics Environmental Safety Office HUIT Office for Sustainability Internal Admin Site Emergency Operations Center Directory Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology About us Faculty Postdoc Graduate Undergraduate About us Our Science  We research and teach how the collective behavior of molecules and cells forms the basis of life. We are driven by a passion for discovery and value collaborative approaches to scientific inquiry, where connections between people fuel interdisciplinary science and break boundaries across varied experimental systems. Against a backdrop of cutting-edge biological research, we work as a team of educators and mentors to inspire and train the next generation of scientists and global citizens.  Our Community  At the core of the MCB department is a commitment to foster an environment in which all individuals have the opportunity to thrive. It is our shared responsibility to create an inclusive culture, where we support and respect each other as colleagues. We embrace a diverse range of perspectives, expertise, identities, experiences, talents, and abilities. By continually strengthening this foundation of investing in the well-being of our people, we enable our community’s growth and pursuit of the creative and innovative approaches that underlie scientific excellence.  Our Guiding Principles We hold ourselves and the community accountable to the following set of values:  Respect  We foster a safe and supportive environment where everyone is treated with respect and dignity and is able to work towards their aspirations.  Engagement We encourage difficult conversations about racial, gender, structural and other inequities in our labs, institutions, and society. We listen actively and openly and seek to continually learn from one another during these respectful and open dialogues. Action  We take active steps to diversify our community demographics, promote equitable practices, and eliminate systemic racism and other inequities in our departmental structures.  Support  We prioritize the well-being of our community members and create avenues of support for all, with a particular focus on the needs of Black people, Indigenous people, people of color, first generation students, people from underprivileged backgrounds, and other community members underrepresented in the scientific community. We prioritize diversity, inclusion, and belonging work, advocate for it at all levels and actively include it in all departmental discussions.  Integrity We carry out our work responsibly and ethically, recognizing that our own choices are reflections of both ourselves and our community. As a department, we are committed to building institutional accountability and transparency in our decision-making processes. MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIROur research Latest News May 25, 2022 Congratulations to the Class of 2022! Commencement 2022 will take place tomorrow, and we at MCB would like to congratulate the graduating classes. Despite the challenges of the past couple of years, these incredible […] Read more May 19, 2022 Community Task Force (CTF) on Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging to Host Open House Today MCB’s Community Task Force (CTF) on Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging will host an open house at 3:00 pm on Thursday, May 19 on Zoom. Delegates from the CTF […] Read more May 11, 2022 Scents of Belonging: An Olfactory-oxytocin Pathway for the Social Regulation of Appetite and Avoidance [Engert- and Kunes Labs] In a project jointly led by the Kunes and Engert laboratories, co-first authors Caroline Wee, Erin Song, and Maxim Nikitchenko used the larval zebrafish to take a deep […] Read more May 11, 2022 MCB 149_History of Molecular Biology I am old enough (born in 1943) and the field of molecular biology is young enough (it too was born in 1943) that I lived through the entire […] Read more See all news Upcoming Events Dissertation Defense: Katie (Weiner) Miller 1660831200 TBD Sign Up Events Calendar Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology Harvard University 38 Oxford Street Cambridge, MA 02138 (617) 495-2300 (617) 495-9956 @MCB_Harvard 6 days ago Congratulations to the Class of 2022! @denic_lab @RachelleGaudet @JAManning15 https://t.co/qvuMTN26lP Follow us Harvard University Associated Research Centers & Departments Contact Privacy Policy MCB Seminar Mailing List MCB Slack Reagent Sharing Accessibility If you have questions regarding the website, please contact Polina Kehayova Copyright 2022 © The President and Fellows of Harvard College. Harvard University Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology. All rights reserved.