Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs BioMed: Biology Ph.D. division Division of Biology & Medicine Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location Students have opportunities to work with graduate biology faculty based on the Brown campus, at nearby hospitals affiliated with Brown's medical school and at the affiliated Marine Biology Laboratories in Woods Hole, Mass. Students have access to cutting-edge research instrumentation and core facilities. Biology is an application option for select students seeking Ph.D.–level education at Brown but who are currently undecided about the particular biomedical Ph.D. program they wish to enter, or those whose interests are at the interface of disciplines. A joint admission committee will invite top applicants for interviews and offers will be extended to students with exceptional qualifications in terms of academic credentials, research experience and promise for achievement. Examples of exceptional qualifications include GPA of 3.7 or greater, research publications, outstanding recommendations, and significant research experience. Admitted students have opportunities to work with graduate biology faculty based on the Brown campus, at the nearby hospitals affiliated with the Warren Alpert School of Medicine, and at the affiliated Marine Biology Laboratories in Woods Hole, Mass. Students have access to cutting-edge research instrumentation and core facilities. Admitted students receive a stipend of at least $29,870 for the year, full tuition, health fee and health insurance premium. In addition, students admitted via the Biology portal receive a special Dean's Award of $5,000 to be used for research support allocation including conference travel. Students offered admission via the Biology portal will meet with graduate program faculty directors, potential research advisors and current degree candidates to facilitate the selection of a home program prior to matriculation. Options for the home program are: Biomedical Engineering Biotechnology Computational Biology Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry Molecular Pharmacology and Physiology Neuroscience Pathobiology Faculty members affiliated with any of Brown's BioMed graduate programs based in the Program in Biology may serve as research mentors. Opportunities are also available for co–mentorship with non–BioMed faculty. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE General: Not required Additional Requirements: Advance correspondence with one or more potential research mentors in the Division of Biology and Medicine is required and should be noted on the application and personal statement. Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 1, 2021 Completion Requirements Each student's individual program of study will be determined upon matriculation in consultation with program advisors; thesis. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Director of Graduate Studies Elizabeth Harrington Elizabeth_Harrington@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Biology Mailing Address Brown University Box G-A215 Office_of_BioMed_Grad_PostDocs@Brown.edu 401-863-3281 Visit the Department of Biology Resources Program Faculty Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search BioMed: Biology Open details for BioMed: Biology Bookmark this Page