<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Business History Creating Emerging Markets BHR Baker Library Other Initiatives Other Initiatives Business & Environment Digital Entrepreneurship Gender Health Care Leadership Social Enterprise About Faculty & Research Projects Courses Fellowships Events …→ Harvard Business School→ Business History→ Business and Society EGC encouraged us to think about the role and responsibility that business leaders have in shaping society and civilization for the better. Melanie Sperling More Impact Stories Intriguing Questions Growing up in Nepal at a time when the country was going through immense political turmoil, I wondered how the momentous events I was living through fit in with the broader arc of history. Aditya Todi More Impact Stories Chandler’s Legacies The fellowship offered me the opportunity to experience stimulating discussions of my work with scholars at HBS, affiliates of the Business History Initiative, and the wider Harvard University community. Xavier Duran More Impact Stories Melanie Sperling MBA 2020 Aditya Todi MBA 2020 Xavier Duran Chandler International Visiting Scholar The Business history Initiative seeks to enable scholars, educators, and practitioners to better understand the modern business world by studying its past. Associated faculty study the history of innovation, government policy, green business, emerging markets, and the origins of global capitalism. Business and Society EGC encouraged us to think about the role and responsibility that business leaders have in shaping society and civilization for the better. Melanie Sperling More Impact Stories Intriguing Questions Growing up in Nepal at a time when the country was going through immense political turmoil, I wondered how the momentous events I was living through fit in with the broader arc of history. Aditya Todi More Impact Stories Chandler’s Legacies The fellowship offered me the opportunity to experience stimulating discussions of my work with scholars at HBS, affiliates of the Business History Initiative, and the wider Harvard University community. Xavier Duran More Impact Stories The Business history Initiative seeks to enable scholars, educators, and practitioners to better understand the modern business world by studying its past. Associated faculty study the history of innovation, government policy, green business, emerging markets, and the origins of global capitalism. Business History Review Business History Review is a quarterly published by Cambridge University Press and headquartered, since its origin in 1926, at Harvard Business School. As stated at its founding, it aims to encourage and aid the study of the evolution of business in all periods and in all countries. See our Spring 2022 Special Issue, "Standards and the Global Economy," guest edited by JoAnne Yates and Craig N. Murphy Featured Article: Shennette Garrett-Scott, “All the Other Devils this Side of Hades”: Black Banks and the Mississippi Banking Law of 1914 Featured on FirstView: Adam Frost, "Reframing Chinese History" Harvard Studies in Business History Harvard Studies in Business History is a series of scholarly books published by Harvard University Press. The series dates back to 1931. The most recent additions are Ai Hisano, Visualizing Taste: How Business Changed the Look of What You Eat and Veronique Pouillard, Paris to New York: The Transatlantic Fashion Industry in the Twentieth Century. The series editors are Walter Friedman and Geoffrey Jones. Recent Faculty Publications Caroline Elkins, Legacy of Violence: A History of the British Empire (2022) Sabine Pitteloud, Les multinationales suisses dans l'arène politique (1942–1993) [Swiss Multinationals in the Political Arena (1942–1993)] Tarun Khanna and Geoffrey Jones, Leadership to Last: How Great Leaders Leave Legacies Behind (2022) Jeremy Friedman, Ripe for Revolution: Building Socialism in the Third World (2021) Kristin E. Fabbe, Disciples of the State: Religion and State-Building in the Former Ottoman World (2019) Tom Nicholas, VC: An American History (2019) Highlights Creating Emerging Markets Creating Emerging Markets explores the evolution of business leadership in Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East. At its core are over 150 interviews conducted by Harvard Business School faculty members with leaders or former leaders of businesses and NGOs. These interviews, with men and women of diverse backgrounds, address pivotal moments of transition in countries around the world. They contain compelling insights on entrepreneurship, innovation, family business, and the globalization of firms and brands. Emphasizing ways that businesses can create value for their societies, the project provides a unique resource for research and teaching. Along with the interviews, the site contains video clips for classroom teaching, and a wealth of relevant resources to allow for further research. The Medici and the Origins of Global Capitalism Project BHI supports Baker Library to promote the use of the school’s Italian, and especially Medici, manuscripts. The multi-year effort to digitize the archive will make one of HBS’s most valuable and distinctive collections more readily accessible for research. The Case Method Institute for Education and Democracy The Case Method Institute for Education and Democracy is an independent nonprofit organization founded by Professor David Moss. The organization, which began as a pilot program, the Case Method Project, at Harvard Business School, brings case method teaching, in the areas of History, Civics, and Government, to U.S. high schools. Harvard Program on the Study of Capitalism The Way to Wealth Project The “Way to Wealth” project, directed by Sophus A. Reinert, is based on a bibliography of Benjamin Franklin's Way to Wealth compiled by Kenneth E. Carpenter. It provides an array of unique research tools and contextual essays on Franklin's seminal essay on work ethic and frugality. From the Faculty Chair Professor Geoffrey Jones on the Initiative’s Mission From the Faculty Chair Professor Geoffrey Jones on the Initiative’s Mission The Business History Initiative encourages transformational research and course development on the history of capitalism that is impactful and relevant to scholars, educators, and practitioners worldwide. History provides rich and nuanced evidence on many key debates in the world today, including the evolution of leadership, the sources of innovation and entrepreneurship, the drivers and consequences of globalization, the role of business in political systems, and the responsibilities of business to creating a more sustainable world. Harvard Business School has a unique record of investing in business history and asserting its important role in the education of MBAs and executives. It created the first endowed professorship, the first journal, and the first postdoctoral fellowship in the field. Today business history flourishes at the School as an innovative, multidisciplinary, and global group attracting faculty from many units.→ HBS Working Knowledge 12 Apr 2022 Book Racism, Colonialism, and Britain's Legacy of Violence 04 Feb 2022 Book Beyond the Cold War: Reinventing Socialism in 5 Countries 05 Nov 2021 Op-Ed Is the Business World Finally Ready for the Wisdom of Shibusawa? 27 Jul 2021 Cold Call Podcast Mixing Sports and Money: Adidas and the Commercialization of the Olympics 27 Jul 2021 Op-Ed What Pirates Can Teach Us About Leadership 30 Jun 2021 In Practice The Harvard Business School Faculty Summer Reader 2021 16 Feb 2021 Working Paper Summaries Bollywood, Skin Color, and Sexism: The Role of the Film Industry in Emboldening and Contesting Stereotypes in India after Independence More Articles Initiatives focus on societal challenges that are too complex for any one discipline or industry to solve alone. ǁ Business History Initiative Harvard Business School Connell House 301A Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.1003 Email: bhi@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College