Powercat chevron double-chevron chat-purple home computer window with a question mark close facebook linkedin menu search twitter youtube apply-purple apply-white chat-white request-purple request-white Jump to HeaderJump to Main ContentJump to Footer Kansas State University Connect Canvas OrgCentral Navigate KSIS HRIS Webmail Sign in Browse A-Z Research Search Search Faculty Resources As a K-State faculty member, you are our university's greatest asset. We want you to have the tools you need to succeed. Find funding opportunities, proposal preparation tips, information about intellectual property and other resources here. Funding opportunities Find more information about the range of funding opportunities available for your research project. Find opportunities /research/faculty/funding/connection/highlights.html Y purple medium-basic Find opportunities Proposal preparation tips Successful funding proposals have many components. Get help with budgets, grant writing and frequently use information needed to prepare a proposal. View resources /research/faculty/proposal/prepare/index.html Y purple medium-basic View resources Intellectual property and inventions Our goal is to promote, encourage, and aid scientific investigation, research, and technology transfer at K-State. We strive to assist K-State's faculty, staff, and students in developing and protecting their discoveries and inventions to return the greatest advantage to the creators, K-State, and the general public. Learn more /research/faculty/other-resources/ip-inventions/index.html Y purple medium-basic Learn more Find a collaboratorDiscover the potential in working with colleagues or industry partners to conduct your research. ComplianceUnderstand the regulations that help keep your research safe and maintain K-State's reputation for research integrity. Funding ConnectionRead an up-to-date list of funding opportunities. Office of the Vice President for Research 120 Fairchild Hall 1601 Vattier St, Manhattan, KS 66506‐0500 785-532-5110 | research@k-state.edu Contact Us Emergency Statements and Disclosures Accessibility KBOR Free Expression Statement © Kansas State University Updated Updated: 9/17/21