Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » Equal Opportunity & Access Set Navigation title in component Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience Semester/Capstone Projects Office of Equal Opportunity & Access The Office of Equal Opportunity & Access is responsible for ensuring compliance with university policies and federal and state laws pertaining to equal opportunity and affirmative action. The Office: Coordinates the development and implementation of the University of Cincinnati affirmative action plan, equal opportunity policies and procedures, and promotes diversity in all of the programs and activities of the university in consultation with colleges and administrative offices Investigates and resolves complaints of discrimination filed by students, staff, and faculty Conducts education and awareness programs in the areas of Sexual Harassment, Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), Diversity, and Affirmative Action. What We Do The Office of Equal Opportunity & Access has the responsibility of developing, revising, implementing, monitoring, and evaluating the affirmative action program and plan, and the equal employment practices of the University of Cincinnati. The Office of Equal Opportunity & Access, in recognizing and protecting the rights of all university community members, promotes these on-going activities: Review internal policies and procedures to ensure the university meets its legal obligations and its commitment to both the letter and the spirit of the law. Review all personnel appointments to ensure the full utilization of protected class members. Maintain data and statistics on the current utilization status of protected class members. Work with departments in the development of affirmative action programs for the recruitment and support of protected class members. Provide publications such as the university's annual Affirmative Action Report, and brochures on sexual harassment, discrimination, diversity, and the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act). Act as a resource for information on affirmative action/ equal employment opportunity legislation. Conduct activities to resolve complaints of discrimination from employees and students. Mission The mission of the Office of Equal Opportunity & Access is to provide the highest quality leadership in the development of programs that will assist the University of Cincinnati community to achieve a diverse work force and ensure access to employment and educational opportunities for all persons. Vision The vision of the Office of Equal Opportunity & Access is to serve as a strategic partner promoting equal opportunity and diversity at the University of Cincinnati. Responsibilities The Office of Equal Opportunity & Access has the responsibility for monitoring the full implementation of the university's Affirmative Action Plan and for facilitating its implementation. The duties and responsibilities of the office include, but are not necessarily limited to the following: To assist the colleges and administrative units to achieve diversity and inclusion through the use of affirmative action strategies. Development, dissemination, and execution of policy statements, affirmative action programs, and internal and external communication measures. Assist in the identification of problem areas and facilitating the establishment of goals in cooperation with vice presidents, deans and department directors. Assist the deans, department directors and managers in arriving at solutions to problems. Design and implement audit and reporting systems that will: Measure the effectiveness of the university's programs. Indicate the need for remedial action. Determine the degree to which the university's goals and objectives have been attained. Serve as liaison with people of color, women, veterans, disabled and other organizations and community groups to promote equal opportunity and inclusion. Keep the university's vice presidents, deans, and department directors informed of the latest developments in the equal opportunity area. Ensure that employees are informed of the university's internal appeals procedures and that they are afforded an opportunity to have redress on any matter concerning equal opportunity. Persons who exercise their rights under the university's grievance and appeals procedures, or under any federal, state, or local statute may do so without fear of reprisal or discrimination. Investigate all internal complaints professionally, objectively and in a non-partisan manner while maintaining fairness to all concerned. Functions Develop equal opportunity policies and procedures. Review and approve all personnel appointments. Assist departments in establishing and achieving goals. Maintain employment statistics on all employees. Provide education and awareness programs. Investigate and resolve complaints of discrimination. The Office of Equal Opportunity & Access 5150 Edwards Center 1 45 Corry Blvd, ML 0214 Cincinnati, OH 45221 (513)556-5503 oeohelp@UCMAIL.UC.EDU University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top