Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Classes of 2020 and 2021 Celebration Alumni Classes of 2020 and 2021 Celebration We are delighted to welcome the Classes of 2020 and 2021 back to campus on Thursday, May 19, for a special celebration of your graduation from Columbia Law School. Schedule for Thursday, May 19, 2022 Columbia University Celebration 9–10:30 a.m. (gates open at 8 a.m.) For information, visit University Celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Columbia Law School Stage Crossing 4 p.m., Francis S. Levien Gymnasium Members of the Classes of 2020 and 2021 will be admitted at 3:30 p.m. and must wear their caps/tams. Graduates will not be lining up in alphabetical order and can choose to sit with their friends. The program will include a procession, remarks from Dean Gillian Lester, and a reading of the graduates’ names as they cross the stage. Columbia Law School Reception 6:30 p.m., Ancell Plaza Following the stage-crossing program, members of the Classes of 2020 and 2021 and their guests are invited to an outdoor, tented reception. Arrival Information Columbia Law School Stage Crossing Francis S. Levien Gymnasium GRADUATES should arrive at 3:30 p.m. via the entrance on 120th Street. Please be prepared to show (1) your ticket and (2) your proof of vaccination, or negative COVID-19 test (time-stamped photo of an at-home antigen test on the day of the event or email results of a PCR test within 48 hours of the first attended event). Professional dress and doctoral tam is required (commemorative stole is optional). Staff will direct graduates through Levien and into the Blue Gym lineup area. Please keep valuables on your person, or opt to have your guests take your belongings prior to checking in. GUESTS will be admitted beginning at 4 p.m. They should be prepared to show (1) their tickets and (2) proof of vaccination or negative COVID-19 test upon entry. Helpful Links Traveling to Campus Campus Accessibility Information and Routes Ticket Information Tickets are required to participate in all events on May 19th, for both members of the Class of 2020 or 2021 and their guests(s). Each member of the Class of 2020 or 2021 who registers to attend will receive two (2) tickets for guests. A separate ticket is required you and your guest(s) to enter each of the three events taking place on May 19th listed above (University Celebration, Law School Stage Crossing, and Law School Reception). REGISTER AND RECEIVE YOUR E-TICKET(S) Deadline is Monday, May 2 at 5 p.m. EDT. Log in using your Columbia email address and the temporary password Lions2022. After you are logged in, you will be asked to reset you password, and then will be directed to the "Ticket Office Home." There you will see the three events you are eligible to attend, listed in chronological order. Click "Get Tickets" for the desired event and you will be directed to that event's page. There you will find all the key event information, and the ticket registration section in a green box called "Ticket Options." If you have issues, please contact [email protected]. Columbia University is committed to protecting the health and safety of its community. Any in-person Commencement activity or event requires all guests to provide full proof of COVID-19 vaccination or proof of a negative COVID-19 test, either an at-home antigen test on the day of each event or PCR test within 48 hours of the first attended event. Anyone over the age of two who is unable to be vaccinated for medical, religious, or other reasons will wear a face mask during all events. Given vaccine requirements and health attestations made during registration, each ticket is unique to the assigned individual and cannot be used by another guest. Selling or buying tickets for Commencement Week events is strictly prohibited. Regalia The Classes of 2020 and 2021 are required to wear caps/tams, and dress in professional attire. Additionally, our supplier has designed a special commemorative doctoral stole that you may purchase and wear, if desired. Caps/tams and the commemorative stole may be purchased in two ways: Visit the Columbia Bookstore (located at 2922 Broadway), and order for ship-to-home or in-store pick-up, or Order online for ship-to-home at columbia20202021.shopoakhilli.com. Last date to order is April 27. Doctoral regalia will be available for in-store pickup beginning May 5. Invitation Requests for Visa Purposes If you need an invitation letter as a supportive document to obtain visas for travel so you or your family can attend Celebration activities on May 19, please complete this form. Contact Student Services with any further questions regarding the letter. Additional Questions? Contact [email protected] Related Links Register for Tickets Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.