COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Computer Science, Major MajorComputer Science All Programs College of Engineering School of Computing Wichita State’s Bachelor of Science (BS) in computer science will prepare you for a high-paying career and is ideal preparation for graduate studies. You’ll have access to some of the best labs and technology in the country—and the chance to work and research with faculty and industry professionals on campus and in Kansas’ center of industry. Learn how computer science is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Engineering, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Students teach entry-level coding to next generation Computer science major Zane Storlie developed a three-unit curriculum teaching Scratch, an entry-level coding program, to elementary school students. Zane taught Scratch to fellow students, and together they're doing their part to fill the coder pipeline in the Wichita area. Curriculum The major is ideal if you’re interested in science, engineering or business. In this ABET-accredited program, you’ll study a broad array of electives or concentrate on hardware, computer networking or electrical engineering. As a senior, you’ll work in a team on a two-semester project—giving you practical experience you’ll put to use in your future career. View the curriculum Careers WSU’s vast industry connections, and work-based learning for every major, gives computer science students the chance to grow their professional network, gain practical experience, earn a paycheck—and open doors to their dream careers. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Information Technology and Management Information Systems Information Technology and Management Information Systems (Minor) Education - Mathematics (Secondary) Computer Engineering Computer Science (Minor) Applied Computing 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©