Emergency Notification More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Student Employment Office Home Campus Jobs Off-Campus Jobs Forms & Resources About Us Information for: Students Parents Employers > Search this Site Home > Job Postings The Student Employment Office (SEO) posts employment positions in two different ways, depending upon how that position will be paid. If a student employee will be paid their wages by Dartmouth College Payroll, the position will be listed on JOBNET (see below). This does not mean these positions are only 'on-campus' opportunities. In fact, many positions are located at local non-profit agencies and DHMC research facilities. Some are specifically seeking student employees with Federal Work Study eligibility, but the majority of opportunities are available to all students. Private individuals or local businesses frequently contact SEO wishing to hire Dartmouth students on a part-time and often 'one-time-only' basis. If you are a student who wishes to be alerted to these opportunities, you may subscribe to our SEO-TempJobs Listserv. Retail, office, child care, yard care, and tutoring positions are some examples of current and past postings. Summer job listings from near and far are also welcome. Private employers seeking to advertise their positions should complete and submit the TempJobs form. Students seeking to find internship opportunities or post-graduate employment should contact Dartmouth's Center for Professional Development or search on their website. International Students should be aware that they are not allowed to work for any employer other than Dartmouth College. As such, they should not apply for positions posted through the SEO-TempJobs Listserv. WARNING: Be aware of the dangers associated with applying for employment that is solicited by random e-mail. We encourage all campus positions to be posted through either JOBNET or the Student Employment -TempJob Listserv. If you receive an unsolicited e-mail, please verify the name through the Dartmouth Online Directory. If you have any questions at all, please feel free to contact SEO. Jobnet Listings The Student Employment Office (SEO) maintains JOBNET, a web-based database that is compiled of student employment opportunities. Every position listed on Jobnet is paid by Dartmouth College. Only "active" jobs (those needing to be filled) can be viewed on Jobnet. To get the broadest possible search results, select only the Term for which you want to search, then click the "Search JOBNET" button. If you do not have a Federal Work-Study award from Financial Aid, be sure to look at the 'comments' section of a position posting for the phrase "Will consider non work study as well" to know whether you are eligible for the position or not. Most positions are open to all students, regardless of work-study eligibility. Students who are not U.S. citizens or Lawful Permanent Residents are not eligible for Federal Work-Study, but may still be eligible for on-campus employment if their visa status allows work and if they have obtained any required permission from OVIS. If you see a position listed on Jobnet that specifies that it is "work-study only," you are NOT eligible to apply. (These are most often positions at off-campus Community Service Agencies.) Students who wish to work for one of the Dartmouth Professional schools should ensure that the payment is from Dartmouth College and should consult their OVIS advisor if they have questions. Each position announcement includes the job description and requirements, when and how to apply, and the name of the contact person. Helpful Tips... Edit your resume and cover letter for each position you're applying to Include a copy of your class schedule with your application, as well as bring it to the interview Practice basic interview questions with friends or family Dress professionally for the interview Have a few questions to ask about the job, the office, or duties required of you When applying for a position, please indicate the JOBNET number for which you are applying in your initial contact. top of page TempJobs ListServ SEO-TempJobs is our online email job notification service for part-time or odd-jobs that are offered by local private individuals or businesses. Common opportunities include child care, yard work, computer set-up or data-entry, tutoring, moving help, house-sitting, etc. We also list full-time summer work opportunities such as camp counselors, babysitter/nanny, etc. By signing-up for this email listserv, you will be sent an email every time a new job opportunity become available. You can unsubscribe or change your preferences at anytime using the link referenced above. Please review the list of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) regarding the TempJobs Listserv. SEO acts only as a referral service and makes no particular recommendations regarding potential employers or employees. Neither Dartmouth College nor the Student Employment Office makes any representation or guarantee whatsoever about any position listed through the SEO-TEMPJOBS list, nor does Dartmouth College or the Student Employment Office assume any responsibility for safety, wages, working conditions, or any other aspect of off-campus employment. International Students should be aware that in almost every case, they are not allowed to work for any employer other than Dartmouth College. As such, they should not apply for positions posted through the SEO-TempJobs Listserv. Non-Dartmouth employers who wish to list a position through our TempJobs Listserv should review the information we provide. top of page Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 3/23/22