Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information Menu Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information N. America Wolves & Wildlife of Yellowstone Jan. 21 – 27, 2023 Experience Yellowstone National Park when its beauty is more untouched by the outside world than any other time of the year. Learn more The Galapagos Islands Jan. 31–Feb. 7, 2023 Explore the fascinating islands and observe the iconic species that hold a central position in modern scientific and evolutionary history. Learn more Portrait of Italy Oct. 17-Nov 1, 2022 From the breathtaking Amalfi Coast to eternal Rome, through the gentle countryside, this tour showcases ancient sites, contemporary life, priceless art and beautiful natural scenery. Learn more Legendary Turkey September 20–Oct. 4, 2022 Enjoy exotic sights, scents and sounds in this land where Europe and Asia meet. Learn more Pearls of Dalmatia Oct. 6-20, 2022 Independent, democratic Croatia welcomes visitors eager to absorb its remarkable history and culture — and its beautiful and unspoiled Dalmatian coastline. Learn more Home Alumni Travel Travel Close Menu Home Travel COVID-19 Updates Traveler Testimonials Upcoming Tours Tour Operators Traveling with us FAQs & Resources Travel insurance Meet the team & Contact us **COVID-19 UPDATE** In this rapidly evolving situation, the most current travel advice can be found at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the U.S. Department of State. For more detailed tours information, please review our COVID-19 response page. About UW Alumni Tours With UW Alumni Tours, curiosity doesn’t end with your degree. Since 1975, UW Alumni Tours has offered the most enriching and engaging adventures in popular and lesser known destinations around the globe. Join fellow alumni, faculty, and friends to explore and discover with the Husky family. Our trips are memorable, and so are our travelers. The unique bonds formed while traveling are unlike any other, and the lifelong friendships that are forged between strangers who share a common connection make us proud. We welcome all alumni and friends to engage in immersive lifelong learning that honors the culture and communities of the world. We invite you to create meaningful connections with us, respecting all that makes us different and unique. For your next journey, choose UW Alumni Tours for an inspiring location and be boundless with us. Learn more Home Travel COVID-19 Updates Traveler Testimonials Upcoming Tours Tour Operators Traveling with us FAQs & Resources Travel insurance Meet the team & Contact us Friends & Family Welcome! You don’t have to be a UW graduate to travel with UW Alumni Tours! UW Alumni Tours Small Group Journeys See what Odysseys Unlimited has in store for 2022. Join Our Mailing List First Name Last Name E-Mail Address Street Address Address Line 2 City State / Province / Region Postal / Zip Code How would you like to get information about our upcoming trips? Email Print Materials Title of Tour Being Viewed URL of Page Being Viewed Do Not Fill This Out Submit UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA