Skip to main content Skip to main navigation About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Join Us Join Us Joining the Baylor family is an opportunity to experience a top academic environment within a dynamic Christian community. Apply Now Prospective undergraduate and graduate students, apply now to experience the excellence, traditions and community as a Baylor Bear! Work Here Come shape the experience of future generations and build a strong community among Baylor's faculty and staff. Make a Gift Give today to continue the Baylor tradition of academic excellence and Christian commitment. Visit Baylor Visit Baylor's beautiful campus and experience the Baylor family first-hand. Baylor Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice of Availability Baylor University is required by federal law to publish an Annual Fire Safety and Security Report. This report includes institutional policies, procedures and programs concerning safety and security. Some of the areas addressed within the report include crime prevention, fire safety, and Baylor’s response to emergency situations and sexual offenses. Three years’ of statistics for certain types of crimes that were reported to have occurred on campus, in or on off-campus buildings or property owned or controlled by the school and on public property within or immediately adjacent to the campus are also included. This report is available online at https://www.baylor.edu/annualcleryreport/. You may also request a paper copy from Baylor Department of Public Safety (254-710-2211). Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor About Baylor Joining the Baylor family is an opportunity to experience a top academic environment within a dynamic Christian community. Ask Baylor Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories