Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Physical Health Mononucleosis What is mononucleosis? Infectious mononucleosis, commonly called "mono," is a disease caused by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). EBV is one of the most common viruses worldwide. Most people are exposed to EBV as children, but the infection often goes unnoticed because they experience minimal symptoms. The majority of people have been exposed to EBV by the age of 35 and have developed immunity. However, when EBV infection occurs during late adolescence or early adulthood, there is a 35% to 50% chance of developing mono. Is it common? As many as 95% of adults in the U.S. become infected with EBV at some point in their lives. For those that develop mono, the highest incidence occurs in people between the ages of 15 and 24. How is it transmitted? EBV is transmitted through direct contact with virus-infected saliva. Intimate kissing or sharing drinking glasses are the most common routes of transmission. The majority of people with mono are most likely to transmit it just prior to feeling ill. This is called asymptomatic shedding and accounts for the majority of the disease's transmission. What are the symptoms? The symptoms of mono may include one or more of the following: Persistent "tired all over" feeling Sore throat and tonsils Swollen lymph glands Fever Headache Enlarged spleen and liver Occasionally, a skin rash or jaundice (yellow tint to the skin) How long after exposure to EBV will symptoms appear? If symptoms appear, it typically takes 4 to 6 weeks after being infected. How is it diagnosed? Mono is diagnosed based on the presence of fever, sore throat, and swollen lymph glands. Your medical provider will also request lab tests to confirm the diagnosis. The tests may include a throat culture and blood tests. Be aware that you may need to have symptoms for a week or more before lab tests can identify the virus. How is it treated? Because mono is a virus, there are no specific cures or treatments. To help relieve symptoms, you should get plenty of rest, drink plenty of fluids, take an over-the-counter pain reliever such as Tylenol or Advil as needed, and gargle with salt water to relieve a sore throat. Sometimes your provider can give you a stronger prescription pain reliever. Steroids are used in rare cases to decrease swelling of the tonsils. Since the virus can affect the liver, it is also recommended that you abstain from alcohol for 3 months after diagnosis. And because your spleen can become enlarged, it is very important to protect it from rupturing. Strenuous exercise, especially contact sports, must be avoided. How long will it take to get better? Recovery may be quicker than you think. Symptoms will ease within 10 days, but don't expect to return to your normal activities for 2 to 3 weeks. 85% of all people with mono are well in 2 weeks and 90% are well in 4 weeks. It is rare for a student to drop out of school because of mono. A few cases of mono are severe enough to interfere with academic work, but these are the exception, not the rule. If you continue to experience symptoms beyond 6 weeks, talk with your medical provider. Is it contagious? Most people have been exposed to the EBV at some point in their life and so are not at risk of developing mono. Because of this, it is not recommended that people with mono isolate themselves from others. Roommates rarely get mono from each other. Avoiding contact with the saliva of an infected person for about 1 month after they had first become ill is recommended. Can I make an appointment at Health Services? If you are a Brown student and you are concerned about mononucleosis, you can make a confidential appointment at Health Services by calling 401.863-3953. Health Services provides a range of services including general health care, inpatient services and emergency medical care. You can request a medical provider by gender or by name. We are located at 13 Brown Street on the corner of Brown and Charlesfield Streets. Related Links To learn more about mono, you can visit: Centers for Disease Control MEDLINE Plus About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook