Policy and Form Library Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to secondary navigation Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Teachers College Policy Library View Policies Secondary Navigation Main Home Policies TC Policy and Form Library Welcome to the Policy Library The TC Policy Library is intended to provide a single location for the current versions of College-wide policies. This website will remain a work in progress as policies are added, updated and edited. View Policies Official Policies The Policy Library holds (or links to) the official version of each TC policy. While we are working to remove out-of-date policies that may exist in other locations, some are likely to remain available. To be sure that you have the current policy, always check the Policy Library. In addition to policies, the Library contains certain procedures and guidance of broad relevance to the college community. Finding Policies Policies are grouped by "responsible office." You will, for example, find the policy on Student Records and Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) under "Vice Provost/Enrollment Services and business expense policies under "Controller." You may also find policies by searching for a policy title or browsing the list of policies. Questions For information about the offices and senior staff members who are responsible for policies, see the Teachers College Policy on Policies. Most policies are publicly available but a few are restricted to affected members of the Community. If you have questions or comments about the Policy Library, please send them to policies@tc.edu. If you have questions or comments about the Policy Library, please send them to policies@tc.edu. Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links