Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Student Center and Activities Student Organizations Student Organizations Guidelines and Funding Options Student Organization Resources Hughes-Trigg Student Center Hughes-Trigg Student Center Welcome Desk HTSC Renovations Event Information Event Information HTSC Event Calendar Reservation Rates Room Features HTSC Procedures About Us ☰ Student Affairs Student Center and Activities Hughes-Trigg Student Center While SMU has no mask requirements inside buildings, we encourage patrons of HTSC to take precautions that they deem necessary in order to feel safe and comfortable. This includes wearing a mask, social distancing, and frequent sanitation of hands or surfaces. Pony Up! Hughes-Trigg Student Center, the focal point for student activities at Southern Methodist University, was conceived through a $10 million donation from Charles and Katharine Hughes-Trigg. The 112,000 square-foot center features a variety of programs and a range of resources for students to enjoy. Welcome Desk If you have questions about Hughes-Trigg, would like a tour of the building, or lost an item, the Welcome Desk is where you should visit! Located in the Atrium on Level 1, the desk is staffed throughout the day to help with everything Hughes-Trigg. Learn More Building Hours Monday-Friday: 7:30am - 10:00pm Saturday & Sunday: 9:00am - 6:00pm Hours will vary on University holidays. Summer & Winter Hours Monday-Friday: 8:00am - 6:00pm Saturday & Sunday: Closed HTSC Office will be open: Monday - Friday 8:30AM - 5:00PM, closed on University Holidays. HTSC Procedures Click the button below to view the policies and procedures of the Hughes-Trigg Student Center. Included are guidelines for daily visitors as well as anyone looking to reserve a space for meetings or events in HTSC. View HTSC Procedures Building Maps Level 2 Level 1 Lower Level Dining Options The Market Chick Fil A Cinco Taco Panera Bread Featured Spaces Mother's Room Hughes-Trigg has a designated Mother's room (lactation room) located on Level 1, near the south entrance of the building. Religious and Spiritual Resources Along with the Office of the Chaplain and Religious Life, Hughes-Trigg offers a Religious Life Commons, Muslim Prayer room, and Ablution rooms all located on Level 2. Veterans Center The Veterans Center is located on Level 2 of Hughes-Trigg right off of the main common space. The center is a space for veterans to relax or study between classes. Reserve A Space Looking to reserve a space in Hughes-Trigg Student Center for your next meeting or event? Click on the button below to find out more information about the many rooms and large gathering spaces that HTSC has to offer. Event Information Contact Us Email: HTSC@smu.edu | Phone: 214-768-4400 Physical Address: 3140 Dyer Street Dallas, TX 75205 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750436 Dallas, TX 75275 Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share