Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process The Financial Aid Process Texas Residency Rules for State Aid Dates & Deadlines Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Financial Aid Status Disbursement of Aid Appeals Due to Special Circumstances Helpful hints for completing the FAFSA and CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE Verification Process Are you Dependent or Independent? How to Accept/Decline Financial Aid Refunds Costs Types of Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Graduate Financial Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs SMU Funded Financial Aid Programs Summer and May Inter-Term Financial Aid Options for Undergraduate Students Veteran Benefits How Enrollment Level Affects Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Process Forms Library Financial Aid Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us ☰ Financial Aid Types of Aid Student Employment Student Employment The Student Employment Office (SEO) partners with the Hegi Family Career Center, and faculty, the community, and University departments to create employment opportunities for students. Over 1,400 students work on campus at SMU throughout the course of each year, in positions all across campus such as: office clerks, library clerks, dining hall and coffee shop help, research assistants for faculty members, website designers, intramurals referees, graders, lifeguards and more. At SMU, we understand that students work for a variety of reasons. Some students are working to pay towards tuition and rent, others are working for experience or spending money. Each student is different, and it is part of our mission to help students balance their academic goals, social activities and part-time employment. A current list of on-campus jobs, internships, local part-time, and post-graduation career opportunities can be found at http://smu.joinhandshake.com/login. To view a current list of job opportunities, students are required to set up an account with a valid SMU e-mail address. Contact Us SMU Student Employment stu_employ@smu.edu Blanton 119, 214-768-3384 Hegi Family Career Center hegicalendar@smu.edu Hughes-Trigg 200, 214-768-2266 Student Employment How does it work? Where can I find a job? Federal Work Study - What is It? Dates to Remember Frequently Asked Questions Supervisor Resources Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share