Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Health Topics Violence Prevention What Is Sexual Assault? What Is Sexual Assault? Sexual assault is any type of sexual contact without consent. The definition of sexual assault varies based on context and geographical location. Sexual assault can encompass a multitude of forms such as nonconsensual kissing, groping, and/or penetration. Sexual assault can affect people of any gender identity, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, or religion. In most cases, the survivor knows the person committing the harm against them. Sexual assault can occur as a result of coercion, which is the practice of persuading someone to do something using pressure, manipulation, alcohol, drugs, other substances, or force. Coercion can take the form of: Additional Resources Read Columbia’s definition of sexual assault. Read New York State's definition of sexual assault. Threats: “If you don’t have sex with me, I’ll break up with you.” Insults, humiliation, put-downs, or guilt trips: “But I thought you loved me.” Exploiting a power/privilege: using status/popularity, race/ethnicity, physical abilities, class, gender identity, or expression, etc. Sexual assault is one component of the larger umbrella term of sexual violence, which includes sexual harassment, stalking, and other forms of gender-based violence. If you have been sexually assaulted, find out what to do. If someone you know has experienced sexual assault, find out how to support them. Learn more about the Quick Escape button. The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance and Immunization Compliance Offices Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close