Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas RAA Complion AAA Complion Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose Overview The ComplionTM system is the University of Miami’s 21-CFR-11 compliant electronic regulatory binder system. The system establishes standard processes and procedures for accessing a study, which is structured and organized to reflect all essential documents following best practices. The system allows the monitor/Sponsor the capability to obtain an electronic copy or print the documents, by being granted access to the identified trial(s)’ regulatory documentation within Complion. Remote access of regulatory documentation by sponsors may support expedited startup, increase communication, enable remote monitoring, and provide highly secure, cost-effective, long-term archiving. Electronic signature capability is also offered as part of the product. Complion was first implemented at the Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center in 2018. In June 2021, the Use of Electronic Regulatory Binders in FDA-Regulated Research policy went into effect inviting the rest of the University research enterprise to onboard with Complion. Please see next section on how the Complion Onboarding process. Complion Onboarding Process It is important that you read the Use of Electronic Regulatory Binders in FDA-Regulated Research to understand if you are required to use Complion. If your research does not fall under this policy, you may still use Complion to reap the benefits of moving from a paper-based process to electronic. There is a one-time fee of $1250 per study e-binder. To onboard with Complion: 1. Email resinfo@med.miami.edu to request study binders and include the following information: For each study please provide the Investigator’s First and Last name, Department/Division, the eProst number (s), and Sponsor. Please include the study team contact and finance administrator. 2. OVPRS finance will email an invoice to the study team contact and finance administrator with the total amount. 3. Interdepartmental payment is to be completed via Workday. 4. The invoice can be shared with sponsors or kept internally for record. 5. Once payment is complete, Research IT will facilitate system access and training directly with the study team contact. Access to Complion If you have a Complion account, you may access it by visiting https://complion.med.miami.edu. For more information on the Complion system please contact: The Research Intelligence & Data Infrastructure support line 305-243-2314 or email resinfo@med.miami.edu. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices