Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Pediatrics Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Campus News What to do while waiting for COVID vaccines for kids under 5 It’s still important to protect your children and the people around them to prevent hospitalization and COVID’s worst outcomes. Topic Public Health How Parents Can Manage the Baby Formula Shortage Columbia pediatrician Lauren Levine shares her insights on resources to try, ways to plan, and what never to do. How to teach a child to swallow a pill The advanced form of drinking required to swallow a pill is a skill to acquire like any other. Topic General Medicine Latest News Loss of Placental Hormone Linked to Brain and Social Behavior Changes August 16, 2021 A new preclinical study provides the first direct evidence that loss of a placental hormone during pregnancy alters long-term brain development, causing autism-like behaviors in male offspring. Topic Neuroscience Heart Problems Resolve in Majority of Kids with COVID Inflammatory Syndrome July 16, 2021 Most of the heart and immunologic problems seen in children with multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C)—a condition linked to COVID—were gone within a few months, Columbia researchers have found. Topic COVID-19 How Premature Birth Affects Respiratory Health in Newborns July 7, 2021 Columbia researchers have developed a way to gently collect stem cells from the airways of infants in the hope of finding new ways to prevent respiratory diseases common in premature babies. Topic Campus News 8 Facts to Know About Scoliosis July 5, 2021 Michael Vitale, a leading spine expert, shares 8 essential facts parents and caregivers should know about this common, treatable condition. Topic Orthopedics Steven Rosenberg Returns to Columbia as Director of Pediatric Ophthalmology June 14, 2021 Steven E. Rosenberg, MD, an expert in strabismus and pediatric ophthalmology, joins Columbia. Topic Ophthalmology Stephanie Lovinsky-Desir to Lead Pediatric Pulmonology May 14, 2021 Stephanie Lovinsky-Desir, MD, a nationally recognized researcher and rising leader in pediatric pulmonary medicine, has been named director of pediatric pulmonology at Columbia University and NYP. Topic Campus News Five Questions with Michael Weiner, Oncologist, Cancer Survivor, Author March 9, 2021 In his book, “Living Cancer,” Columbia oncologist Michael Weiner tells the stories of his patients and reflects on his 360-degree view of cancer as a physician, patient, and parent. Topic Campus News Spreading Cancer Prevention Awareness, One Text At a Time January 29, 2021 The HPV vaccine has great potential to reduce the rate of cervical cancer in Africa, where Columbia researchers are trying to increase vaccination rates with texts. Topic Global Health How Pediatricians Can Help Children and Parents Deal with the Pandemic November 30, 2020 Columbia’s Evelyn Berger-Jenkins, MD, has co-authored new recommendations to help pediatricians address emotional and behavioral health issues in children during the COVID-19 pandemic. Topic Campus News Children Produce Different Antibodies in Response to New Coronavirus November 5, 2020 Compared with adults, children produce a very different antibody response after infection with the new coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, suggesting they clear the virus easily. Topic COVID-19 Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top