Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Brown Real Estate Home Auxiliary Housing Undergraduate Student Housing Listings Forms Graduate Student Housing Visiting Scholar Housing Off Campus Housing Service Relocation Assistance Organizational Chart Contact Us Brown to Brown Program Properties Program Guidelines Eligibility and Allocation Appraisal Process Revised Purchase % Resources How to Express Interest Commercial About Us Site Navigation Home Auxiliary Housing Undergraduate Student Housing Listings Forms Graduate Student Housing Listings Forms Visiting Scholar Housing Listings Forms Off Campus Housing Service Guide to Off-Campus Housing Forms Relocation Assistance Organizational Chart Contact Us Brown to Brown Program Properties Program Guidelines Eligibility and Allocation Appraisal Process Revised Purchase % Resources How to Express Interest Commercial Available Properties South Street Landing Contact Contact About Us Directory Leadership Organizational chart Undergraduate Student Housing The Auxiliary Housing office leases and manages residential housing units ranging in size from efficiencies to one-bedroom, multi-bedroom apartments and houses. These living units surround the campus and occupy an area that extends from the center of campus to Bowen Street to the north, Olive Street to the west, Power Street to the south, and Hope Street to the east. The typical rental unit in an undergraduate off-campus building includes utilities such as heat, hot water, gas, and electricity. Telephone service, cable television service, internet access, and the wiring for these services are available through private providers at the tenants’ cost. Apartments are available on a first-come, first-served basis each fall to currently enrolled students for a 12-month term. For 2022/2023 availability, please submit a New Guest Card. Once completed, a representative from the Auxiliary Housing department will contact you to discuss your housing needs. PLEASE NOTE: Only those students who have applied for off-campus housing permission will be contacted to view available housing. A reservation fee of $150 per person is required to hold an apartment. In the case of a multi-person unit, the reservation fee must be received from each applicant for that unit before the unit will be held for the group. The $150 reservation fee is refundable if the applicant does not receive off-campus housing approval. If the applicant does receive off-campus approval and decides to not lease the unit, the reservation fee will not be returned. If the applicant receives off-campus approval and leases the unit, the reservation fee will be applied towards the required security deposit, which is equal to one month’s rent. Subletting Undergraduate tenants with a fully-executed lease may choose to sublet their apartments. All subtenants must be Brown-affiliated, possess a valid Banner ID, and abide by the Brown Code of Conduct, the Auxiliary Housing Rules and Regulations, and in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Student Housing Occupancy Lease. See the Forms section for more information about subletting. Parking The Auxiliary Housing office additionally has a limited number of parking spaces in specific lots on campus that are available to its tenants for a monthly fee on a first-come, first-served basis. 2022-2023 Housing Contract Terms Housing contract terms for currently enrolled undergraduate students are for a 12-month period beginning June 3, 2022 at noon and terminating on May 29, 2023 (Memorial Day) at noontime. Rental charges are placed on the student's Banner account on a per-semester basis through the Bursar's office. Important Note for Undergraduates Undergraduates wishing to reside off-campus must first obtain off-campus permission through the Office of Residential Life. University Housing for Students with Disabilities Brown University offers a range of campus housing that accommodates the needs of students with disabilities. Campus Residence Hall Facilities Improvements have been made to accessibility features of dormitory rooms, bathrooms, and kitchens. Campus Site Improvements Improvements have been made relating to the accessibility of routes of travel on campus to accessible dormitories. Brown University has campus accessibility maps that provide information about campus accessibility, including but not limited to, information about accessible paths of travel, lift locations, and accessible parking. These maps can be found here. For specific information about accessibility, please contact the Office of Student and Employee Accessibility Services at 401.863.9588 or [email protected]. Program Houses The University is currently evaluating program and special interest housing to determine a course of action for making inaccessible program and theme housing accessible to disabled students desiring to reside in such a program or special interest house. Among the options being considered by the University are renovating currently inaccessible program/special interest houses or relocation of inaccessible program/special interest houses to accessible facilities. Auxiliary Housing Additionally, the University has made improvements to selected auxiliary housing facilities so that there are units that are accessible to and usable by students with disabilities. Some projects are ongoing and require substantial evaluation, planning, and execution. A completed project that has greatly enhanced the accessibility of campus facilities involves improvements to the Sharpe Refectory dining hall, including the installation of an elevator for the purpose of making the dining hall accessible to students with disabilities. Brown University asks for your patience as it undertakes these important improvement projects. It is our goal to perform these improvements with minimal interference to campus activities. View Listings Auxiliary Housing Undergraduate Student Housing Listings Forms Graduate Student Housing Visiting Scholar Housing Off Campus Housing Service Relocation Assistance Organizational Chart Contact Us Real Estate Office Main Office: Brown University, 350 Eddy Street, Providence, RI 02903 Mailing Address: Box 1902, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: (401) 863-5482 Fax: (401) 863-1058 Auxiliary Housing Office Phone: (401) 863-2016 Location: 125-127 Waterman Street (Rear entrance door) Mailing address: Box 1900 Providence, RI 02912 Facilities Service Response: Phone: (401) 863-7800 Brown Public Safety: Phone: (401) 863-3322 (Non-Emergency/Lockouts) Phone: (401) 863-4111 (Emergency) Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top