Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Human Resources Staff Directory HR Services Holidays Newsletters Posters Calendars Policies Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Reporting FMLA Leave Beginning April 2022, UofM employees on newly approved FMLA leaves have an important new way to report their leave usage on their timesheets or leave reports. HR's COVID-19 Information & Resources Employees may have specific questions for HR related to COVID-19. Answers are available here. Organizational Charts The Human Resources website offers UofM org charts on demand to serve your department's needs. University Holidays The University's list of observed holidays Build Your Career With Us The University of Memphis is hiring! Check our online job announcements site and apply for your future career today. PreviousNext Take Action WorkforUM Focus on Finance & HR Forms Contact Us Follow Us Online Instagramtwitter Home Human Resources Welcome to Human Resources! The Department of Human Resources supports the University's mission of teaching, research and community involvement. We are a committed workforce that maintains a diverse body of dedicated faculty and staff who promote the University's core values. We serve as business partners for the University community by consistently championing relevant and meaningful HR issues that address the growing needs of our dynamic institution. We encourage innovation and initiative on HR policies, processes and practices in order to deliver a timely and creative approach to leading a diverse and engaged workforce. Departmental Information Mailing Address: 165 Administration Building Memphis, TN 38152 Office Hours: Monday thru Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Phone: 901.678.3573 | Fax: 901.678.1650 | E-mail: hrservicecenter@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/30/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.