HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation ABOUT FAQ CONTACT US Chapter Resources Awards Chapter Excellence Awards Score Card All Submissions are due on March 18, 2022 via the electronic form for each award. Chapter of the Year Award Criteria 2022 Alumni Development Award Campus Involvement and Leadership Award Chapter Development Award FSL Involvement Award New Member Program Award Philanthropic Service Award Scholastic Achievement Award Individual Awards - All individual awards are due on March 18, 2022 CPA Member of the Year IFC Member of the Year MGC Member of the Year NPHC Member of the Year Emerging Leader Award John Robert Clinton Greek Unity Award Unsung Hero Award Personal Academic Achievement of the Year Award New Member of the Year Award Kathy Cauthen Friend of the Greeks Community Award Chapter Advisor of the Year Award Greek Athlete of the Year Award Diversity, Equity, Inclusion Program/Initiative of the Year Award (sponsored by the FSL DEI Ambassadors) Health and Wellness Program/Initiative of the Year Award (sponsored by the FSL Wellness Advocates) House Manager of the Year Award Fraternity/Sorority Housing Experience of the Year Award Forms Notification ofInitiation For organizations,this forms is due seven business days prior to Initiation. Greek Roster The Greek Roster System allows the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life to keep an accurate count of the membership in our fraternities and sororities at Clemson. All membership status changes are required to be submitted within 24 hours. It is important for a chapter roster to be updated in a timely manner so that membership is properly reflected in the semester grade report and FSL fee charges. For more information on the roster system, please email Lynn Tumblin at ltumbli@clemson.edu. The Greek Roster is only accessible to our Chapter Presidents. Presidents will need to use their personal Clemson credentials to gain access. If you are a chapter president and cannot gain access, please contact your chapter advisor in the Fraternity and Sorority Life Office. To access the Greek Roster System, click here. Chapter Presidents – please review the Online Roster User Guide before logging on. Online Roster User Guide Request a Presentation or Training Fraternity and Sorority Life staff can facilitate a presentation or training for your members. We can develop a presentation to meet the needs of your chapter on various topics. We ask that you complete the online request form at least 3 weeks prior to the proposed date for the presentation. Click on this link to request a presentation. Norris Guest Suite Reservations Accommodations are available in the Norris Hall Guest Suite for visiting Fraternity and Sorority Life chapter consultants and speakers who are conducting official chapter business on the Clemson University campus. Priority will be given for on-campus chapters. Anyone requesting a reservation must be pre-approved by the Fraternity and Sorority Life Office, 864-656-7578. To reserve the Norris Guest Suite, you must complete the ONLINE FORM. Accommodations/Amenities The Norris Hall Guest Suite is a two-room suite with bedroom and living room. It is furnished with a queen-sized bed, sofa, private bath, desk, television, refrigerator, microwave, ironing board and iron. Internet and local phone service is available. Linens are also provided. When a guest is staying three or more nights, they may request fresh linens from the Residential Facilities staff. Please call 864-656-5450 for assistance with your linens. Laundry facilities are located in the basement of Norris Hall for personal use. Pets and smoking are prohibited. Rates and Payment The guest suite is reserved on a daily basis, subject to availability. The daily rate is $25 plus 11% accommodations tax. Payment should be made by check (payable to Clemson University) and sent to:Clemson University, Fraternity & Sorority Life, Att: Lynn Tumblin, 100 Norris Hall, Clemson SC 29634. Please contact Lynn Tumblin at 864-656-7578, if you have any payment questions. Check-In/Check-Out Guests should check-in at the Norris Hall front desk between the hours of 3–8 pm, Monday-Friday. For weekend arrival, please contact Lynn Tumblin, 864-656-7578 or ltumbli@clemson.edu, to make special arrangements to pickup keys. Guests must return all keys and access cards to the Norris Hall front desk no later than noon on the day of their departure. If departure occurs on the weekend, the room key and access cards should be left in the room. If the room keys and/or access cards are not returned or are lost, the visiting guest, or the responsible chapter, will be charged a $50 lock change fee. Cancellation Policy If you need to cancel your reservation, please notify Lynn Tumblin, ltumbli@clemson.edu, within five working days of your scheduled arrival date. After the five working days, you may request to cancel your reservation at a cost equal to one night’s stay. Failure to show will also result in a charge equal to one night’s stay. Taxes may apply. Parking Please be aware that you are responsible for working with Parking Services to obtain a visitor parking permit for your stay on-campus. Information regarding visitor parking can be found at this link: https://www.clemson.edu/campus-life/parking/visitors/ Important Phone Numbers Lynn Tumblin Administrative Coordinator for Fraternity & Sorority Life 864-656-7578 Michael Parrish Coordinator for Fraternity Sorority Housing 864-986-1093 Grad Assistant On Call 864-650-4713 Guest Suite: 864-858-6197 Emergency CUPD, Fire, EMS 911 Social Event Policies & Resources Social Event Planning Guide Sober Monitor Checklist Security Vendor Checklist University Hazing Policy Important Links Clemson Organizations College Panhellenic Association Interfraternity Council Multicultural Greek Council National Pan-Hellenic Council Order of Omega Greek Intervarsity National Organizations National Association Conference (NPC) North-American Interfraternity Conference (NIC) National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) Helpful Links Stop Hazing.org Hazing Prevention http://www.hazingprevention.org/ Community Statistics Grades Each of the below links gives an overview of grades and population numbers for each semester. Fall 2010 Grade Summary Spring 2011 Grade Summary Fall 2011 Grade Summary Spring 2012 Grade Summary Fall 2012 Grade Summary Spring 2013 Grade Summary Fall 2013 Grade Summary Spring 2014 Grade Summary Fall 2014 Grade Summary Spring 2015 Grade Summary Fall 2015 Grade Summary Spring 2016 Grade Summary Fall 2016 Grade Summary Spring 2017 Grade Summary Fall 2017 Grade Summary Spring 2018 Grade Summary Fall 2018 Grade Summary Spring 2019 Grade Summary Fall 2019 Grade Summary Spring 2020 Grade Summary Fall 2020 Grade Summary Spring 2021 Grade Summary Fall 2021 Grade Summary Annual Assessment Highlights Assessment Year 2020-21 Assessment Year 2019-20 Assessment Year 2018-19 CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster