Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Religion Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Religion Major Apply Visit Request More Info Religion Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Religion Gain an understanding of the major religions of the world, their traditions and roles in society, with the Bachelor of Arts in Religion in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. As a Religion major, you’ll explore the complex relationships between religion and class, ethnicity, gender, race, sexuality and other areas of society—as well as the ways in which religions connect to one another. Students are encouraged to explore and ask questions about the nature of religion, and what impact it has on personal identity, social life and political structures. Religions covered in the curriculum include African and African American religions, Buddhism, Christianity, Confucianism, Daoism, Hinduism, and Judaism. You’ll learn about the major figures of these world religions, how they developed over time and how they relate to one another. You’ll also form a deep understanding of how cultures form, how different communities grow, why conflicts arise and how they are resolved. The Religion Major can help students understand and appreciate our culturally, socially diverse world, and inspire empathy, curiosity and open communication. Religion Department Founded in 1961, Temple’s Department of Religion was one of the earliest religion departments established at a public or state-related university. The goal of the department and its programs is to provide students with a broad understanding of a wide variety of religious traditions and an awareness of how religion functions in communities around the world. The department has strong relationships and affiliations with outside secular and religious institutions, including the Eastern Baptist Theological Seminary, Lutheran Theological Seminary, Reconstructionist Rabbinical College in Philadelphia and University of Pennsylvania Department of Religious Studies. Classes & Curriculum In addition to university and College of Liberal Arts requirements, Religion BA students will complete major-specific required and elective courses. The following courses are available. Death and Dying East and West and Religion in Philadelphia Islam Religion and Human Sexuality Religion in Film Zombie Apocalypse After completing course requirements, students will complete a capstone project worth three credits. Learn more about Religion Major requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Anthropology PhD Applied Sociology PSM History MA History PhD Philosophy MA Philosophy PhD Religion MA Religion PhD Certificate Programs The College of Liberal Arts has 22 undergraduate certificate programs for you to expand your knowledge and diversify your Temple education. Certificates can complement bachelor's programs, allowing you to specialize in an area and highlight your exposure to disciplines outside of your major. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Elizabeth Hayes Alvarez is the director of undergraduate studies. Phone: 215-204-7973 Email: ehayes.alvarez@temple.edu Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For questions regarding the Religion Major, contact the following staff member. TJ Cusack is the program administrator in the Religion Department. Phone: 215-204-9209 Email: tjc@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Religion Department. Terry Rey is the chair. Phone: 215-204-8755 Email: trey@temple.edu Elizabeth Hayes Alvarez is the undergraduate chair. Phone: 215-204-7973 Email: ehayes.alvarez@temple.edu Linda Wyatt is the program coordinator. Phone: 215-204-3663 Email: ldwyatt@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. The following student organizations may be of interest to students in the Religion Major. Alpha Omega is a nondenominational Christian organization. Hillel at Temple University is the center for Jewish life at Temple as well as a center for those students who do not have a Jewish life on their campuses in the Philadelphia area. Global Connect: Temple is open to people of all ethnicities, nationalities and religious backgrounds. It aims to enhance the lives of all international students at Temple by providing service opportunities that meet practical needs, hosting social events to build connections among Americans and international students, and promoting spiritual growth. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your Temple experience by immersing yourself in new cultures, histories and perspectives in countries such as China, Germany, Ghana and Italy, as well as at Temple’s Rome and Tokyo campuses. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-REL-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Religion Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info