Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Academic Success Center Menu Toggle Search Resources SI Schedule Tutoring Profile Main navigation About Mission & Values Meet the ASC Team Work for the ASC Find Us Academic Coaching & Outreach Meet with a Coach Resources & Worksheets Workshops Meet Our Coaches Supplemental Instruction Tutoring Services Psych 131 What is Tutoring Services? Request a Tutor The Format Tutoring takes place in small groups, consisting of 2 to 5 students. Students can request a tutor in any undergraduate course they are currently enrolled in at Iowa State. Group tutoring sessions cost $5 per session. Groups meet at a consistent day and time twice a week during the academic year and three times per week during the summer. Sessions are 50 minutes. Groups are interactive and led by a qualified peer tutor. Tutoring Services is a centralized academic support service consisting of peer-facilitated learning experiences for undergraduate students interested in requesting or becoming a tutor at Iowa State. We work with students to identify and mobilize resources that facilitate learning and promote success. Application Dates Summer 2022: Tutee apps (request a tutor): May 9 - July 18 Summer 2022: Tutor apps (apply to be a tutor): April 4 - May 20 Apply Now! Log in Here Meet our Team Become a Tutor & the Benefits of Group Tutoring Collaboration: Students can ask questions, discuss, and share ideas with 2-5 students in a similar situation. Sessions are designed to encourage thinking and peer-to-peer interactions. Critical Thinking: They get to build on what they know, practice, and problem solve with the help of multiple, diverse perspectives. Confidence: Students learn how to learn through engaging activities and skill development. And the main bonus? Earn higher grades! Community: They also get to listen and learn in a comfortable environment where they form relationships with other tutees and their tutor while increasing their sense of belonging at Iowa State. Contact us: tutorsrv@iastate.edu 515-294-6624 Monday-Friday: 8 AM - 5 PM Remote video URL Tutoring FAQ & Why Group Tutoring? See our Program Goals and Objectives here. Resources & Worksheets Academic Coaching Supplemental Instruction Workshops Psych 131 Iowa State University Academic Success Center Dean of Students Office Contact Academic Success Center 1060 Hixson Lied Student Success Center 515-294-6624 success@iastate.edu Hours Academic Year: 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Summer and Breaks: 7:30 am- 4:00 pm Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...