Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Modeling and Simulation Engineering Technology of the Future Skip to Section Home of Modeling and Simulation Research Recognized as the modeling, simulation and training capital of the world, Orlando serves as a hub where government, academic institutions and industry employers come together to support national security measures and improve healthcare, among many other initiatives. Home to the National Center for Simulation and Training and host to the world’s largest industry conference — the Interservice/Industry Training, Simulation and Education Conference — the region has experienced significant growth, making it the fastest-growing metro for STEM jobs in the U.S. Annually, Central Florida secures about $6 billion in modeling, training and simulation contracts involving top industry leaders including Lockheed, SAIC, Raytheon and Northrop Grumman. An industry that started by taking man to the moon, space now uses simulation-based technology across a variety of fields, from aviation to aerospace and defense to healthcare to gaming. Simulators recreate experiences through computer-driven software and are often used for training. Learning through experience often results in better retention compared to reading or lectures, making simulation a valuable training tool for a wide range of fields, such as engineering, psychology, history, philosophy, healthcare and public service, to name a few. Cutting-Edge, Human-Centered Simulation Research The School of Modeling, Simulation and Training (SMST) is a global leader in graduate education and is recognized for establishing modeling, simulation, and training as a recognized field of study. The school was established in 2018 and is an innovative, collaborative and immersive learning environment. SMST houses the Institute for Simulation & Training (IST), which conducts modeling, simulations and training research and development, as well as educating future industry leaders. Laboratory space within the institute, such as the prototype development and 3D print laboratory, transforms a number of ideas into products. IST is the largest institution of its kind. Many projects developed through UCF’s modeling and simulation programs are used in the real world and impact the future of simulation, including a virtual co-pilot avatar for Boeing, smart-house technology in Lake Nona and a smart handle for medical assessments. The various tools used in the classroom replicate high-stress, high-consequence situations where quick decision-making is crucial. This first-hand experience builds a foundation for a high-performing workforce that will help define the future of simulation and training. Alongside faculty, students and researchers, UCF’s alumni are a vital force in expanding research and deploying effective training solutions in simulation. Several have been recognized by the National Center for Simulation’s Modeling and Simulation Hall of Fame for pioneering breakthroughs in live training and virtual-training systems to training hundreds of Navy pilots. $11.6 Billion Statewide economic impact from modeling, simulation and training sales activity $6 Billion Amount of Research Park’s organizations and businesses generate for the state’s GDP 60,000+ People employed in the park affiliated with the military 150 Companies housed in the park, ranging from heavy hitters such as Boeing, Leidos, Lockheed and Raytheon to start-ups 550+ Graduate degrees awarded by the School of Modeling, Simulation and Training 40+ Years the Institute for Simulation and Training has served as a research arm for the university Advancing Simulation and Cyber Training Research and Application for Our Armed Troops An initiative between UCF and the U.S. Army, named Cyberwerx, focuses on cyber operations planning, cyber data analytics, modeling and simulation, and emerging technology evaluations among other areas. Its objective is to identify, assess and harness forthcoming capabilities for the U.S. Army Program Executive Office for Simulation, Training and Instrumentation. The work pairs UCF experts, both faculty and students, with those who need the tools being developed for real-world application in real time. The collaboration should not only provide potential solutions for current problems, but will help address future problems by providing a direct connection between the lab and practitioners. We are second in the nation for simulation. Lockheed Martin Corp. and others see Central Florida as fertile ground for that partnership. UCF was the first to offer graduate degrees — master’s and doctorates — in modeling and simulation.” — Tom Baptiste, former president and CEO for the National Center for Simulation Alumni Spotlight: Jason Eichenholz ’95MS ’98PhD Self-driving cars have become the next major frontier in transportation. At the forefront of this movement is Luminar, a 7-year-old company co-founded by Jason Eichenholz ’95MS ’98PhD. The company, which is based in Silicon Valley and Central Florida Research Park, has developed more efficient and affordable methods for creating the technology behind these vehicles — earning partnerships with Audi, Toyota, Volvo and more than a dozen other autonomous vehicle programs. Among its crowning achievement is its development of a new lidar sensor that can see almost 10 times farther than other sensors and sells for as little as $500, compared with $75,000 for the current industry leader. Find out how he’s driving the future. Do Something Big: UCF College of Engineering and Computer Science UCF’s College of Engineering and Computer Science students share their experiences in the program — from the high-end facilities to the latest technologies and tools used both inside and outside of the classroom. Modeling and Simulation News Check out more stories Research U.S. Cyber Command Selects UCF For Academic Engagement Network New partnership aims to help alleviate national shortage of cybersecurity experts. Research UCF and Army Ink Cooperative Research and Development Agreement New agreement means students will have greater opportunities to gain hands-on experience and help support our nation. Colleges & Campus New Virtual Reality Technology to Treat PTSD Enters Clinical Trials UCF RESTORES brings renewed sense of hope to those battling trauma At the Forefront of Nursing Simulation Having recently earned international accreditation for its nursing simulation program, UCF is a living example of how we can take healthcare from here to the future. Learn how simulation transforms healthcare Modeling and Simulation Degrees Getting a degree in modeling and simulation sets students on the path to success — whether their goal is to work for a leading industry employer or start their own business. Our nationally recognized programs, including computer science and engineering, provide the foundation to accomplish big things. Bachelor’s Best bachelor’s degrees for modeling and simulation Computer Engineering BSCpE Mechanical Engineering BSME Physics B.S. Electrical Engineering BSEE Graduate Graduate degrees and certificates for career advancement in modeling and simulation Modeling and Simulation MS Computer Science MS Mechanical Engineering MSME Modeling and Simulation PhD Modeling and Simulation of Behavioral Cybersecurity Graduate Certificate Interdisciplinary Top programs in other areas for modeling and simulation Psychology BS Integrated Business BSBA Emerging Media BFA Public Administration BA UCF Online Modeling and simulation online degree programs Aerospace Engineering MSAE Civil Engineering MSCE Nursing MSN (Simulation) Healthcare Simulation Rankings and Accreditations Top 20 Most Innovative University in the Nation U.S. News & World Report ranks UCF as one of the most innovative in its annual list of best colleges. Top 20 Best Online Bachelor’s Programs for Veterans U.S. News & World Report ranked UCF as one of the best online bachelor’s degree programs that help veterans reduce the cost of school. #79 Best Undergraduate Engineering Programs University of Central Florida is ranked No. 79 in Best Undergraduate Engineering Programs in the nation by U.S. News & World Report. #71 Best Computer Science Undergraduate Program Ranked No. 71, UCF’s undergraduate computer science program received recognition from the U.S. News & World Report. View all of UCF’s Best Colleges rankings. Growing Smarter. Faster. Together. Located adjacent to UCF, Central Florida Research Park is recognized as one of the top 10 research parks in the world. This 1,027-acre corporate community provides an environment for industry and the university to share training facilities, pursue cooperative research, transfer existing technology to the marketplace, and provide internship and career opportunities for UCF students. As the world’s largest cluster of modeling, simulation and training companies, Research Park is home to the National Center for Simulation and Training as well as the nation’s Army, Air Force, Navy and Marines simulation operations. The park also offers startup resources such as I-Corps and the UCF Business Incubation Program to help entrepreneurs get their feet off the ground and on the path to success. By providing the knowledge, industry mentors, and other tools needed to launch a new business or product, our area is committed to fostering innovation that will change the future of our state, region and nation. Modeling and Simulation Companies Employing UCF Graduates NASA Boeing Lockheed Martin Northrop Grumman Siemens L3Harris Technologies Raytheon Technical Services Company Leidos Luminar Technologies Institutes, Associations & Affiliations Florida Space Institute Unmanned Aerial Systems Research Florida High Tech Corridor Institute for Simulation and Training Federal Aviation Administration FIEA (Florida Interactive Entertainment Academy) Townes Laser Institute Advanced Materials Processing and Analysis Center (AMPAC) Areas of Excellence Innovation. Access. Impact. Our integrated approach to teaching and learning prepares students for the future of work and lifelong careers, making a difference in their communities and around the world. Aerospace and Defense Digital Arts and Entertainment Healthcare Hospitality and Tourism Modeling and Simulation Space Transportation Science University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida