Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > September 27, 2021: Update on Third Dose of Pfizer COVID-19 Vaccine COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff September 27, 2021: Update on Third Dose of Pfizer COVID-19 Vaccine Dear members of the Columbia community, We write to update you on several matters relating to last week’s FDA and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announcements which authorized a third dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. Who is covered? 1. People who completed their second dose of the Pfizer vaccine at least six months ago are eligible as follows: Age 65 and older Residents in long-term care settings Age 50 to 64, with underlying health conditions that put them at high risk of severe COVID-19 Age 18 to 49, with underlying health conditions, based on individual benefits and risks Age 18 to 64, whose occupation puts them at high risk of exposure to COVID-19 2. Any persons who are moderately to severely immunocompromised. When do these new provisions take effect? The FDA and CDC authorized the use of boosters (third dose) of Pfizer/BioNtech vaccine for category #1 above and this was affirmed by New York State Department of Health. People in category #2 have previously been covered and have been receiving their third dose. What about people who received the Moderna or Johnson & Johnson vaccine? The FDA and CDC will be evaluating the data these two pharmaceutical companies have submitted and we will advise you when decisions are made regarding these two vaccines. Doses cannot be interchanged, so if you received either Moderna or Johnson and Johnson you will not be able to receive a Pfizer “booster”. Where can Columbia affiliates receive their booster dose? Vaccines are widely available at local pharmacies and drug stores. The following websites can help you find a vaccination location: New York City vaccination information New York State vaccination information New Jersey vaccination information Connecticut vaccination information In addition, you may make an appointment through your Connect account. Will Columbia University be requiring the booster dose for eligible Columbia affiliates in the categories noted above? At this time, Columbia University is not requiring booster dosing. Will Columbia University be providing seasonal influenza vaccination? Similar to COVID-19 vaccines, influenza vaccines are widely available through local pharmacies and drug stores as well as through your provider. More information will be forthcoming on influenza vaccination scheduling. Sincerely, Donna Lynne Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC University COVID Director Gerry Rosberg Senior Executive Vice President Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top