Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu FedEx Institute of Technology About Research Innovation Engagement Emerging Tech Training Tech Transfer Impact Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Office of Technology Transfer (OTT) Invention Disclosure IP Process Overview Presentations Available Technologies Issued Patents IP Workshop Take Action Emerging Tech Training Research Collaborations News & Impact Distinguished Guests Follow Us FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Technology Transfer (OTT) Technology Transfer WE PUT RESEARCH TO WORK FOR ALL OF US Although research and innovation can be rewarding in its own right, it is the application of the work that literally brings it to life. That’s where the Office of Technology Transfer shines. Housed within the FedEx Institute of Technology, the OTT generates revenue for the University by shepherding new innovations from big idea to licensed intellectual property to breakthrough commercial product. The number of invention disclosures, issued U.S. patents, copyrights and licenses grows each year, contributing to the success of start-ups and established corporations alike and improving products and processes in fields ranging from water treatment to neuroscience. Check out our issued patents. Business and Industry Discover the intellectual property we have available for licensing and see if there is a fit for your industry. Contact Hai Trieu at: hhtrieu@memphis.edu, 901.678.1712 for more information. Browse our technologies available for licensing. Faculty Researchers We invest in and protect promising innovations by University researchers. We want to hear about your invention and help drive success for your project. To get started, contact Hai Trieu at: hhtrieu@memphis.edu or 901.678.1712. Learn about invention disclosures. Download a disclosure form. FAQs for Researchers Post-Doc Entrepreneurs The University of Memphis and Epicenter have partnered to create Patents2Products, a program designed to enable post-doc fellows to start businesses utilizing patented intellectual property developed both in Memphis and across the United States. Learn more about Patents2Products. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/27/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.