Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of Student Services Menu Main Nav Office of Student Services Office of Student Services Academic Calendar Back Back Close About Overview Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Registrar Overview Academic Calendar 2022–2023 Academic Calendar 2023–2024 Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Summer 2022 Registration Spring 2023 Registration Summer 2023 Registration Fall 2023 Registration Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Financial Aid Overview Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Wellness Financial Aid Forms Contact Related Links Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate & Law Cost of Attendance Billing & Student Accounts Overview Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Student Employment Overview Job Listings 21–22 Academic Year On-Campus 21–22 Academic Year Off-Campus FWS 2022 Summer On-Campus 2022 Summer Off-Campus FWS Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Close Academic Calendar Directory A to Z Listing Search Student Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Financial Aid Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Applying for Aid To begin the financial aid process, you will want to review the following requirements for eligibility that are required for Federal financial aid: You must have been accepted to a degree-seeking program You are enrolled at least half-time per semester as defined by the Office of Student Services (half-time is 6 credits) You must not be in default on a Direct Federal Loan or Perkins Loan or need to pay a Federal grant overpayment You are a U.S. citizen or permanent resident International Students International students are not eligible for Federal financial aid. Visit the International Students page for more information. International Students Financial Aid Information Financial Aid Forms Contact the Office of Student Services How to Apply for Financial Aid 2022–2023 2021–2022 Preferred Filing Dates Continuing Graduate Students: March 7, 2022 Continuing Law Students: March 7, 2022 Summer Continuing Graduate and Law Students: February 4, 2022 Incoming Graduate Students: February 4, 2022 Incoming Law Students: February 4, 2022 Print + - Step 1: Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form is used by Boston College to determine your federal aid eligibility. Boston College’s school code is 002128. Available online after October 1 Allow 2 weeks for processing The IRS Data Retrieval tool is a feature of the FAFSA that enables the automatic transfer of tax return data from the IRS directly to your online application. It is strongly encouraged that you use this feature if it is available to you. For more information, visit studentaid.gov/resources/irs-drt-text. Note: You will need an FSA ID to electronically sign your FAFSA or Renewal FAFSA. If you do not have or do not remember your FSA ID, visit studentaid.gov/fsa-id/sign-in/landing. FAFSA Step 2: Complete the appropriate form Do you meet any of the following requirements? applying for Summer Work Study in a Dual Degree program receiving a scholarship, employer tuition remission, or other aid to report? If so, complete the Graduate/Law Supplemental Form. Graduate and Law Students Supplemental Information for Financial Aid If not, complete the Graduate Enrollment Form. Graduate Student (Non-Law) Enrollment Form Only one form is required. Preferred Filing Dates Continuing Graduate Students: March 5, 2021 Continuing Law Students: March 5, 2021 Summer Continuing Graduate and Law Students: February 4, 2021 Incoming Graduate Students: February 4, 2021 Incoming Law Students: February 4, 2021 Print + - Step 1: Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form is used by Boston College to determine your federal aid eligibility. Boston College’s school code is 002128. Available online after October 1 Allow 2 weeks for processing The IRS Data Retrieval tool is a feature of the FAFSA that enables the automatic transfer of tax return data from the IRS directly to your online application. It is strongly encouraged that you use this feature if it is available to you. For more information, visit studentaid.gov/resources/irs-drt-text. Note: You will need an FSA ID to electronically sign your FAFSA or Renewal FAFSA. If you do not have or do not remember your FSA ID, visit studentaid.gov/fsa-id/sign-in/landing. FAFSA Step 2: Complete the appropriate form Do you meet any of the following requirements? applying for Summer Work Study in a Dual Degree program receiving a scholarship, employer tuition remission, or other aid to report? If so, complete the Graduate/Law Supplemental Form. Graduate and Law Students Supplemental Information for Financial Aid If not, complete the Graduate Enrollment Form. Graduate Student (Non-Law) Enrollment Form Only one form is required. Submitting Your Documents Submit all required documents to www.bc.edu/finaidupload. Please note that it will take 48–72 hours for your documents to be added to your financial aid file. Please remember to write your assigned Eagle ID Number on every page of all documents you submit. Upload Limitations and Restrictions File size is limited to 5 MB per document. If your document exceeds this size, consider the following: Do not use a camera to create images of the documents Do not attempt to upload color copies Use a lower resolution setting when scanning documents Word documents, Excel spreadsheets, and .tiff documents are not acceptable. Conversion options are usually available for any file type that is not in an accepted file format. Password-protected documents cannot be accepted If you experience any issues while attempting to upload your documents, please contact the Office of Student Services at 1-800-294-0294 or at studentservices@bc.edu. Documents may also be submitted to the following PO address as a secondary option: Boston College Financial Aid Processing Center PO Box 1482 Portsmouth, NH 03802 Preferred Filing Dates Continuing Graduate Students Continuing Law Students Summer Continuing Graduate and Law Students Incoming Graduate Students Incoming Law Students Summer Work-Study Continuing Graduate and Law Students For Fall Enrollment Submission Deadline March 7 Award Notification Mid-June For Fall Enrollment Submission Deadline March 7 Award Notification Mid-June For Fall Enrollment Submission Deadline February 4 Award Notification Early May For Fall Enrollment Submission Deadline February 4 Award Notification Mid-April For Fall Enrollment Submission Deadline February 4 Award Notification Mid-April For Summer Work Enrollment Submission Deadline February 4 Award Notification Early May Note: this submission deadline is a hard deadline. Boston College is committed to providing information in a manner that is accessible to all. If you are in need of a printed copy of the material presented on this web page, please contact the Office of Student Services. Your Unique Situation Print Late Applicants In order to be considered for Federal financial aid, your processed FAFSA must be received by BC before the end of the enrollment period. Application materials that are received after the following dates may not be processed and federal financial aid may not be received before the enrollment period is over. Enrollment Application Deadline Summer only June 17, 2022 Summer and Fall only November 2, 2022 Academic year only (Fall and Spring) April 7, 2023 Consequences of Applying Late Aid may not arrive in time to pay bill or receive refund Aid may not arrive in time to pay for books and/or living expenses Incomplete applications will delay process Summer Financial Aid Federal financial aid for Boston College's summer sessions is limited to Federal Direct loans (Unsubsidized and Grad PLUS), Work-Study, and private educational loans. Graduate students must be enrolled at least half-time for summer in order to be considered for these funds. Appeals The Cost of Attendance (COA) increase appeal process allows the Boston College Graduate and Law Financial Aid team to review additional educational expenses incurred during your enrolled academic period. In order to appeal, students must receive aid up to their cost of attendance, and your expenses must exceed the living allowances listed on our Cost of Attendance page. Increases to COA are limited and are based on federal regulations. These expenses may include: Rent, if it is above the amount included in the living expenses portion of the cost of attendance One-time computer purchase Dependent care expenses for dependents under the age of 16 (Note: please speak with your financial aid counselor first) Other expenses as listed on the appeal request form. All requests must include supporting documentation for each expense. If you list expenses without any supporting documentation, the request will not be considered, and it will be automatically denied. Note: the Graduate and Law Financial Aid Office may limit the amount of a student’s increase for any reason. If it is determined that the cost was not incurred during the current academic enrollment period or if it is not an allowable education-related expense, the request for an increase will be declined. Cost of Attendance Increase Form (PDF) The following is a list of items that are not allowable expenses: Costs incurred outside of the current academic year Costs incurred by anyone other than the student Outstanding student loan payments Automobile purchase or payments, including insurance Credit card payments or other consumer debt payments Moving expenses, including security deposits Child support and other child care expenses (except for day care) Legal fees or fines, including traffic tickets, parking tickets, or bail Veterinary costs Test preparation fees, or exam fees not related to the current academic program Receipts for expenses must show the identity of the buyer, the identity of the vendor, the amount of the purchase, and the date. The Graduate Financial Aid team will notify you by email within 7 business days whether or not your request was approved. If approved, you may apply for additional federal and/or private loans to cover approved expenses. You may visit bc.edu/altloans for more information regarding private educational loans. Approval for an increase in your cost of attendance does not guarantee an approval for an additional loan. If you have questions or concerns about an appeal, please contact your financial aid counselor in the Office of Student Services. Financial Aid Application Status Students are encouraged to monitor your financial aid status online before contacting Student Services. The following financial aid information is available online: Financial aid application document status Financial aid award status View your financial aid award Adjust your financial aid award Report outside scholarships Financial aid award history How to Check the Status of Your Financial Aid Application Incoming Graduate/Law Students To check the status of your financial aid application you will need to complete the following steps: Go to bc.edu/finaidapp. Enter your Eagle ID and date of birth (mm/dd/yyyy). Click Submit. Select the award year to view the status of your financial aid documents. If you have any questions, you may contact the Office of Student Services at (800) 294-0294, studentservices@bc.edu, or visit our location in Lyons Hall. Current Students To check the status of your financial aid application you will need to complete the following steps: Log into bc.edu/myservices. Scroll down to the "Student Financial Services" tab. Click on "Application Status." Select the award year to view the status of your financial aid documents. If you have any questions, you may contact the Office of Student Services at (800) 294-0294, studentservices@bc.edu, or visit our location Lyons Hall. How to Check Your Financial Aid Award Information Incoming Graduate/Law Students Financial aid awards are released in the BC Applicant Status Portal. If you have trouble accessing your portal, please contact your Admissions Office. To view your financial aid award information you will need to complete the following steps: Log into your BC Applicant Status Portal. Scroll down and select the "Check Your Financial Aid Status" dropdown. Follow the steps provided to view your financial aid award information. If you have questions about your financial aid award, you may contact the Office of Student Services at (800) 294-0294, studentservices@bc.edu, or visit our location in Lyons Hall. Current Students To view your financial aid award information you will need to perform the following steps: Log into bc.edu/myservices. Scroll down to the "Student Financial Services" tab. Click on "Financial Aid Award Notification." Select the Academic Year Period in the dropdown menu. Your financial aid award details will then appear, which includes residential status, cost of attendance, scheduled graduation term, and award file status. If you have any questions, you may contact the Office of Student Services at (800) 294-0294, studentservices@bc.edu, or visit our location in Lyons Hall. Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 Phone: 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 studentservices@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College