Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Home > Home > Student guides > International student guide International student guide The UW is home to 8,000 international students representing more than 100 countries. International students, along with domestic students', work with Undergraduate Advisers to explore and plan for majors as well as other opportunities that are designed to develop and expand, skills, talents, knowledge, and abilities throughout a student's undergraduate degree. Advising Guides The advising guides below are meant to help you learn how to make the most of your time her at the University of Washington. They provide helpful tips, questions, and activities that will assist you as you acclimate to the University of Washington and higher education in the United States. First-year student guide Second-year student guide Transfer student guide UAA Advising vs. ISS Advising UAA Advising Undergraduate Advisers are available to students to discuss academic planning, course selection, applying to majors and how to find academic resources on campus. Students can make an appointment or sign into drop-in to speak to an adviser. UW Undergraduate Advising: Home (washington.edu) Undergraduate Advising is also a place to stop by on drop-in when you have a question that you do not know where else to get an answer. If we do not have the answer we will know where you can get the answer to your question. Undergraduate advisers do not have accurate up to date information on any students' VISA status ISS Advising-International Student Services For all questions and concerns related to international student VISA’s .ISS Provides guidance on maintaining F-1 or J-1 immigration status while attending the UW, processes F-1 and J-1 immigration benefits, navigates university policy and understand F-1 and J-1 visa restrictions, ensures university and student compliance with immigration policies, provides educational tools, including workshops https://iss.washington.edu/ ISS Virtual Front Desk & Drop-In Advising We invite students to book virtual appointments with advisors for one-on-one appointments. All Virtual Front Desk and Drop-In Advising sessions are listed in the ISS Events Calendar. https://iss.washington.edu/about-iss/virtual-front-desk/ Visa Information and Regulations International Student Services (ISS) closely monitors immigration-related news coming from the U.S. government and the White House that may have an impact on our international student community at the UW. https://iss.washington.edu/travel-visas/government-updates/ Requesting Changes to your 1-20 Visa or DS-2019 This section contains information on ISS procedures and the various forms you will need to request updates or changes to your I-20 or DS-2019. The information is arranged by topic or type of change. https://iss.washington.edu/requests/ Students on F-1 visas must understand the rules of their visa status before engaging in employment or work opportunities in the U.S. https://iss.washington.edu/work/f1-employment/ Getting Connected on Campus Circle CIRCLE (the Center for International Relations & Cultural Leadership Exchange) is the UW’s primary portal to resources, community and activities that help international and domestic students maximize their Husky Experience, together CIRCLE (washington.edu) Unite UW Unite UW is a quarterly on-campus cultural exchange program that builds bridges between domestic and international students at the University of Washington. The program aims to engage student participants in cultural exchanges to enhance cultural understanding, overcome barriers and boundaries, inspire lasting international relationships and unify our campus. Unite UW | Once United, Never Divided CIRCLE Chat CIRCLE offers Discord drop-in hours to help students stay engaged and informed during remote quarters. Students can connect with CIRCLE staff to discuss their current topics of interest and to get their questions answered. This is a great opportunity to get the latest information from UW and to stay connected during the remote quarter. Please refer to the CIRCLE calendar to view the weekly CIRCLE Chats schedule. CIRCLE Chats | CIRCLE (washington.edu) FIUTS TO FIUTS, every student represents an opportunity to create a new connection - with students across our campus and people throughout our community. FIUTS | Foundation for International Understanding Through Students Tuesday Tea Tuseday Tea is a time to come together, de-stress and engage in meaningful conversations with peers and guests. Swing by CIRCLE to grab a cup of tea and practice mindfulness, chat with friends or get some work done. Occasionally, a guest from various campus departments have tea with Circle. CIRCLE (washington.edu) Student Advisory Board CIRLCE Student Advisory Board (SAB) is an undergraduate international student committee that offers guidance to CIRCLE’s professional staff on dealing with the unique needs of the international students at the University of Washington. Student Advisory Board | CIRCLE (washington.edu) Other Resources for International Students Scholarships and other Finacial Resources Paying for college is a significant investment for any student and their families. However, there may be resources that can help cover the costs associated with attending college–the issue is understanding what financial resources are available and where to find them. Understanding financial resources | CIRCLE (washington.edu) International Student Pride When it comes to sexual and gender orientations, identities, and expressions, students who identify with nationalities and cultures beyond the U.S. can have vastly different ways of exploring, navigating, and understanding their queer and questioning identities. International Student Pride | CIRCLE (washington.edu) Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA