Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Need help making a gift? Call 866-419-6768 Iowa State Logo Give Now Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Search Content: Home For Donors Donor Services The Iowa State University Foundation appreciates every donor who makes a commitment to the university, and we want to make giving easy and meaningful for you. Because of this, we offer a variety of donor services to assist you in working with us. Your Rights as a Donor As a donor, you have the right to be informed, ask questions, and be assured your information is handled with respect and confidentiality. We respect your privacy, and won’t release information to the public other than your names, gift amounts and gift designations. However, requests from donors that their names not be released will be honored. To lay all of this out, the Iowa State University Foundation board of directors has endorsed the Donor Bill of Rights. For additional information on our privacy policies, read more on: Public Transparency Privacy Information Charity Registration and Disclosure Statement Online Giving Security We understand the importance of information security – especially regarding online transactions – which is why the foundation partners with iModules to provide our most secure online giving experience. For further details, click here. Home Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Donor Services Privacy Information Public Transparency Charity Registration and Disclosure Statement Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Who We Are Careers Iowa State Highlights Reasons to say "THANK YOU" $1,542,356,968 Since the start of the Forever True, For Iowa State campaign, donors like you helped us exceed our historic $1.5 billion goal! “Scholarship support enhances my time at Iowa State and allows me to see the world while also gaining an amazing education.” - Margaret Leligdon, Junior, Civil Engineering Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are 2505 University Boulevard, P.O. Box 2230, Ames, Iowa 50010-2230, 866.419.6768. Copyright ©2016, Iowa State University Foundation. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Back to Top