Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of Student Services Menu Main Nav Office of Student Services Office of Student Services Academic Calendar Back Back Close About Overview Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Registrar Overview Academic Calendar 2022–2023 Academic Calendar 2023–2024 Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Summer 2022 Registration Spring 2023 Registration Summer 2023 Registration Fall 2023 Registration Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Financial Aid Overview Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Wellness Financial Aid Forms Contact Related Links Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate & Law Cost of Attendance Billing & Student Accounts Overview Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Student Employment Overview Job Listings 21–22 Academic Year On-Campus 21–22 Academic Year Off-Campus FWS 2022 Summer On-Campus 2022 Summer Off-Campus FWS Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Close Academic Calendar Directory A to Z Listing Search Student Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Student Employment Frequently Asked Questions Student Employment Job Listings Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Frequently Asked Questions Print Open All Close All Do I have to work if I have been awarded Federal Work-Study as part of my financial aid package? No. Federal Work-Study is an opportunity for students to work in order to earn money to pay for college expenses, as well as to gain valuable employment experience. It is one component of an aid package that may be composed of loan, scholarship/grant, or work awards. A student may choose to decline the work offer. However, there is an expected contribution from work by students who apply for and receive financial aid. Am I guaranteed a job on campus if I have been awarded Federal Work-Study? No. Federal Work-Study is an opportunity to work. It is not a guarantee of on-campus employment. Boston College also provides off-campus employment opportunities with non-profit organizations, as well as with city, state, and federal government offices that contract with our University. Federal Work-Study offers a wide range of employment opportunities, including community service and America Reads participation. Are my earnings deducted from my student account? No. Students receive payment, which is deposited directly to their designated bank account(s) or credit union(s) of their choice. Direct Deposit for Payroll enrollment will be available on the student’s Agora Portal after that student has been hired by their department and the hire processed by the Human Resources Service Center (HRSC). For your convenience, a PDF with instructions on Direct Deposit is available. If not paid by direct deposit is chosen, then a paper check is issued, and you (the student employee) need to pick it up at the HRSC (located at 129 Lake Street) during regular business hours. Am I limited as to the number of hours I may work each week? Yes. It is a Boston College Policy that Graduate Students, Undergraduate Students, and Non-BC Students may work no more than a total of 20 hours per week for Boston College during the academic year. This aggregate limit applies to all assistantships, stipends in compensation for services, and hourly positions. Students may work more than 20 hours per week (but less than 30 hours between semesters and during school breaks). During the summer period a student may work more than 30 hours per week (to a maximum of 40 hours), but any period during which a student averages 30 or more hours per week may not exceed 12 weeks. How do I log my hours? Student employees log their hours using Kronos. Note that you must be hired by your department and have your hire processed by the HRSC in order to have your Kronos link available on your Agora Portal. You can refer to the Instructions on how to enter your hours worked for a current week. Please note that students are not able to add any hours worked during historical/previous weeks from their end; they can only enter hours worked during a current week. Hours worked during historical/previous weeks are entered by each department's hiring manager and/or supervisor with departmental Kronos access. BC students working off-campus through our Off-Campus Federal Work-Study Program need to submit paper Off-Campus Agency Student Time Sheets to the Office of Student Services for review and processing. Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 Phone: 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 studentservices@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College