Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Office of the President About Mission & Strategic Plan University Governance Communications Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Governance President's Council Key Leadership Board of Trustees Board of Visitors Faculty Senate Staff Senate Student Government Association Alumni Association Board UofM Foundation Board University Transparency Take Action Review Presidential Communications Meet Key Leaders Contact the Office of the President Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Office of the President Governance Board of Visitors Board of Visitors In 1989, a group of prominent Memphis business and community leaders, led by Robert Fogelman, formed a board to guide the president of The University of Memphis in attaining excellence and national recognition for the University. This group, known as the Board of Visitors (BOV), was the first of its kind in the state. They were charged with raising the University's national stature and enhancing the school's relationship with the local community. Among its activities, the BOV works to enhance the image of the University and was supportive of the successful name change to the University of Memphis in 1994. It also was actively involved in the selection of the last two presidents. In addition, the BOV sponsors the Eminent Faculty Award that encourages excellence in research, teaching and outreach. This prestigious award, that comes with a $20,000 stipend completely funded by the BOV, was renamed in 2006 as the Willard R. Sparks Eminent Faculty Award after former Chairman Willard Sparks. In 1999 the board was restructured and began assisting the University in the areas of programs, fundraising and strategic planning. The full board meets twice each year in addition to committee meetings. BOV Officers Honorary Visitors Chair Laurie Tucker Vice Chair The Honorable Sheri Lipman Secretary/Treasurer James Maclin Robert F. Fogelman Fogelman Investment Company Founding BOV Chairman The Honorable Jim Strickland City of Memphis, Mayor BOV Members Michael Bruns Bruns Holdings, Owner Benjamin C. Bryant, Jr. University of Memphis | Crews Center for Entrepreneurship, Executive in Residence Pace D. Cooper Cooper Hotels, President & CEO Hilliard R. Crews, Jr. Shelby Group International Inc., Chairman Rick Fogelman Fogelman Management Group, CEO Dr. Paul Green University of Memphis, Psychologist & Adjunct Professor Willie H. Gregory, Sr. Nike Inc., Director Global Community Impact Helen S. Gronauer Shelby Ventures LLC Carolyn C. Hardy Chism Hardy Investments LLC, President & CEO Donald Hutson U.S. Learning, Chairman & CEO Karen Fields Isaacman Armstrong Relocation, Co-Chairman Larry Jensen Cushman & Wakefield/Commercial Advisors, President & CEO George T. Johnson BJB Administrative Services LLC, President Elise L. Jordan FedEx Express, Sr. Vice President & CFO Mike Keeney Attorney, Lewis Thomason Michael E. Kisber FTN Financial, President James D. Lackie Rhyton Capital Management LLC, CEO Pierre Landaiche CEO, UMRF Ventures, Inc. The Honorable Sheryl H. Lipman United States Judiciary, United States District Judge Mark Luttrell Former County Mayor James Maclin Maclin Enterprises, Principal & Consultant William “Bill” Morris Retired David C. Perdue DS Partners, CEO Elliot Perry Billy Orgel Tower Ventures, President & CEO Bruce "Kent" Ritchey Landers Automobile Group, President & CEO Beverly Robertson President & CEO, Greater Memphis Chamber Nestor Rodriguez President, UofM Alumni Association Elkan Scheidt Shelby Ventures, LLC, Principal Harry L. Smith HNB Partners Richard A. Spell Founder, Spell Restaurant Group and CEO/Majority Owner of MidSouth PICCs Mitchell D. Spurlock Power Transport and Power Freight, Founder & Chairman; Aqua Chempac, Founder & Chairman; Magnolia Paper, President John W. Stokes, Jr. Retired David Tate Signet, Inc., President/COO Fred Towler International Paper, Vice President, Supply Chain Laurie A. Tucker Calade Partners LLC, Co-Founder & Chief Strategy Officer Michael Ugwueke Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare, President & CEO John Webb Cigna, TriSouth Market President David Wedaman Re Trans Inc., President Craig Weiss Tower Ventures, VP-Partner & CEO C. Kemmons Wilson, Jr. Kemmons Wilson Companies, Principal Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.