Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Student Affairs> Student Health Services> Student Immunization Regulation - Version 2 Student Immunization Regulation Version 2 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Current Version Compare 2 Versions Policy REG11.40.01 Title Student Immunization Regulation Category Student Affairs Sub-category Student Health Services Authority Chancellor History Policy first enacted: 1994; last revised July 12, 2010; Placed in University Policy Manual after EXPEDITED REVIEW, transitioned without substantive change from prior version, January 29, 2013. Revised December 12, 2017. Approval of revisions on February 4, 2019 and revised version posted to PRR manual February 27, 2019. Contact Director of Student Health Services: (252) 328 - 6841 Related Policies Additional References NC General Statutes §§ 130A- 152 - 158158 NC Administrative Code, 10A NCAC 41A.0400, et seq. North Carolina Immunization Branch of the Department of Health and Human Services 1. Introduction 1.1. Students admitted to East Carolina University (ECU) undergraduate or graduate programs must meet North Carolina state law immunization requirements and the requirements of this Regulation. This includes required proof of immunization for all new incoming and transfer students. 1.2. All enrolled students should file a Report of Medical History with the University’s Student Health Services (SHS), and students are required to provide proof of immunization, on or before the first date of registration. 1.3. If the student fails to present the Report of Medical History with proof of immunization to the university prior to the date of first registration, the university will provide a notice of deficiency to the student, providing the student thirty (30) calendar days from the date of registration to obtain the required certificate of immunization. 1.4. Students are not permitted to remain enrolled after thirty (30) calendar days from the date of registration unless in compliance with the requirements of this Regulation. 1.5. Any student first registering for summer session(s) and who does not provide the required certificate of immunization, but continues enrollment in the fall semester, is required to comply with all immunization requirements within thirty (30) calendar days of the fall semester. 1.6. ECU Student Health Services does not maintain immunization records for other ECU schools, such as the ECU Community School. Additional state law requirements may exist for these schools. For information about immunization requirements for other ECU schools, please contact the school administration within the respective program. 2. Immunization Requirements 2.1. Students 17 years of age or younger are required to have all the following immunizations: 2.1.1. 3 DTP (Diphtheria, Tetanus, Pertussis) or Td (Tetanus, Diphtheria) doses; one Td booster must have been within the past 10 years. If not, as of July 01, 2008 TDaP (tetanus, diphtheria, acellular pertussis) must be received. 2.1.2. 3 Polio doses 2.1.3. 2 Measles (Rubeola), 2 Mumps, 1 Rubella (MMR is preferred vaccine) 2.1.3.1. An individual who has been documented by serological testing to have a protective antibody titer against measles is not required to receive measles vaccine. 2.1.3.2. (B) An individual who has been diagnosed before January 1, 1994, by a physician (or designee such as a nurse practitioner or physician's assistant) as having measles (rubeola) disease is not required to receive measles vaccine. 2.1.4. International student and/or non US Citizens students are required to have a Tuberculin (PPD) skin test or Quantiferon (QFT) with a negative result within the 12 months preceding the first day of classes (chest x-ray required if test is positive). The PPD or QFT must be performed in a United States facility. 2.1.4.1. If PPD (Or QFT) is positive submit the most recent x-ray report. 2.1.4.2. If the chest x-ray was taken more than a year ago, submit the report and the NC DHHS 3405 form (which may be obtained from your local health department or University SHS). 2.1.5. Hepatitis B - 3 doses of Hepatitis B are required for all students born on or after July 1, 1994. Serological testing is not acceptable in lieu of vaccines. 2.2. Students born in 1957 or later and 18 years of age or older are required to have all of the following immunizations: 2.2.1. Requirements are the same as above with the exemption of the Polio Vaccine. Students over the age of 18 are not required not have the polio vaccination. 2.3. Students born before 1957 are required to have all of the following immunizations: 2.3.1. DTP (Diphtheria, Tetanus, Pertussis) or Td (Tetanus, Diphtheria) doses; one Td booster must have been within the past 10 years. If not, as of July 01, 2008 a TDaP (tetanus, diphtheria, acellular pertussis) must be received. 2.3.2. International student and/or non US Citizens students are required to have a Tuberculin (PPD) skin test or Quantiferon (QFT) with a negative result within the 12 months preceding the first day of classes (chest x-ray required if test is positive). The PPD or QFT must be performed in a United States facility. 2.3.3.1. If PPD (Or QFT) is positive submit the most recent x-ray report. 2.3.3.2. If the chest x-ray was taken more than a year ago, submit the report and the DHHS 3405 form (which may be obtained from your local health department or University SHS). 3. Alternatives and Qualifications. Some alternatives and qualification of requirements are acceptable as follows: 3.1. History of Measles (Rubeola) is acceptable as an alternative to receiving the Measles (Rubeola) Vaccine if physician verifies that student had the disease prior to January 1, 1994. 3.2. Blood titer tests are acceptable for Measles, Mumps, and Rubella if the test shows the student to be immune. Laboratory test results must be attached. 3.3. Only one Measles (Rubeola) dose on or after first birthday is required for students who entered college for the first time before July 1, 1994. Students who entered after July 1, 1994must have two doses of Measles vaccine. 3.4. ECU will not accept documentation of a Td Booster given within the past ten years as assurance that a primary series of a tetanus diphtheria-containing vaccine was given. Each student who does not meet the documentation requirement must initiate the Td series prior to the first day of class. If the student fails to complete the vaccine according to the schedule, the student is not permitted to remain enrolled. Individuals attending colleges and universities are required to have three doses of tetanus/diphtheria toxoid, one of which must have been within ten years immediately prior to attending class. Those individuals enrolling in college or university for the first time on or after July 1, 2008 must have had three doses of tetanus/diphtheria toxoid and a booster dose of tetanus/diphtheria/pertussis vaccine if a tetanus/diphtheria toxoid or tetanus/diphtheria/pertussis vaccine has not been administered within the ten years immediately prior to attending the university Titers will not be accepted for the tetanus series. 4. Exceptions to Regulation: The requirements of this Regulation do not apply to students residing off campus and enrolled in: 4.1. Off-campus courses (distance education) 4.2. Evening courses (classes beginning after 4:00 p.m.) 4.3. Weekend courses 4.4. No more than four (4) credit hours in on-campus courses If at any time the above student status changes to: on-campus courses, course load of more than four (4) credit hours, on-campus residence, and/or enrollment in day-time courses, a Certificate of Immunization or record of immunization must be presented on or before the date the person first registers for a semester. Information re: student enrollment status is uploaded nightly into the SHS Immunization System from Banner Nightly. This is monitored by our Immunization Coordinator and students are tracked accordingly. 5. Exemptions to Regulation: 5.1. Medical Exemption 5.1.1. An exemption from the applicable immunization requirements must be requested by written certification from a physician licensed to practice medicine in North Carolina certifying that the required immunization is or may be detrimental to a person’s health due to the presence of one of the contraindications provided by N.C.G.S. § 130A-152; or 5.1.2. An exemption from the applicable immunization requirements may be requested on the basis of a medical exemption provided by the State Health Director pursuant to N.C.G.S. § 130A-156. 5.1.3. Individual submitting medical exemption documentation should contact the SHS Immunization Coordinator for instructions on submitting the information to the North Carolina Immunization Branch of the Department of Health and Human Performance. 5.2. Religious Exemption 5.2.1. The bona fide religious beliefs of a student, or the parent, guardian or person in loco parentis of a child, that are contrary to the immunization requirements contained in this Regulation may seek exemption from the requirements of this Regulation. 5.2.2. An exemption from the applicable immunization requirements must be requested by providing a written and signed statement delivered to the Immunization Coordinator of Student Health Services demonstrating the bona fide religious beliefs and opposition to the immunization requirements. Once received, the information is reviewed by the Immunization Staff and SHS Director for final approval. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier