Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Education Academics Forward Arrow Academics Undergraduate Forward Arrow Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Back Arrow Back Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs Forward Arrow Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Back Arrow Back Doctoral Programs Forward Arrow Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Back Arrow Back Programs Forward Arrow Programs Educational Programs Forward Arrow Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Back Arrow Back Labs Forward Arrow Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Back Arrow Back Centers and Institutes Forward Arrow Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Student Advising Forward Arrow Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Back Arrow Back Field Experience Forward Arrow Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Back Arrow Back Student Opportunities Forward Arrow Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Back Arrow Back Student Resources Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About From the Dean Administration Departments Forward Arrow Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Directory Forward Arrow Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Alumni and Friends Forward Arrow Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Back Arrow Back Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting Forward Arrow Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Back Arrow Back Employee Services Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close College of Education Academics show submenu for Academics Undergraduate show submenu for Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs show submenu for Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Doctoral Programs show submenu for Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Research show submenu for Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Programs show submenu for Programs Educational Programs show submenu for Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Labs show submenu for Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Centers and Institutes show submenu for Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Students show submenu for Students Student Advising show submenu for Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Field Experience show submenu for Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Student Opportunities show submenu for Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Student Resources About show submenu for About From the Dean show submenu for From the Dean Dean's Leadership Institute Administration Departments show submenu for Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Directory show submenu for Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Alumni and Friends show submenu for Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting show submenu for Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Employee Services Clemson Home College of Education Academics Masters and Specialist Programs Current: Teaching and Learning (Online) Teaching and Learning, M.Ed. Ranked among the nation’s Best Online Graduate Education Programs by U.S. News and World Report for five consecutive years, the M.Ed. in Teaching and Learning program provides superb quality at an economical price. The Clemson Master of Education in Teaching and Learning is a 100% online graduate program for current PK-12 educators. The rich, engaging curriculum will prepare you to advance your professional standing in just 18 months. Students have the option of personalizing their experience by selecting from one of four specialization areas: Effective and Reflective Teaching, Experiential Learning for Early Childhood, Instructional Coaching, or STEAM. Note: This program does not lead to initial teacher certification. Program Handbook Program Brochure Faculty Directory Academic Calendar Apply Now “ “I would recommend this program to other educators who are looking to expand their opportunities in the field of education and grow as teachers. This program is very well structured, and it is perfect for working teachers. You will learn more about your field, your students, and yourself.” Celene Cervin M.Ed. Student Teaching and Learning The Effective and Reflective Teaching specialization cohort is full for summer 2022. At this time, Experiential Learning for Early Childhood, Instructional Coaching and STEAM specialization remain open. Overview Clemson University has combined the educational excellence that we are known for with the flexibility that many teachers desire and need. The result is a completely online Master of Education Degree in Teaching and Learning. This program is open to current PK-12 educators who work in formal educational settings. Consistent access to a classroom of students is critical to your success in the program since many courses carry a field component. We will consider some informal educational settings (e.g., school clubs, extension activities, before or after school programs), but suggest contacting the program coordinator prior to applying. Benefits of earning a M.Ed. in Teaching and Learning from Clemson University: Earn a degree from a top 30 public university while anywhere in the world. Experience educational excellence that Clemson University is known for at very competitive tuition rates. Earn a significant pay raise in most states. Increase your career options: continue as a classroom teacher or become a curriculum specialist, a department chair or an instructional coach (check your individual state guidelines). Join a community of practitioners from across the globe as you work to improve instructional practice Admission Requirements Admission to the Program The Teaching and Learning M.Ed. program admits students for a summer entrance term. Only complete applications are considered for admission. Application Deadline May 15th, or until specializations are at capacity. If specializations fill prior to the application deadline, an announcement of specialization closure will be posted on this webpage. Application Requirements To be considered for the Program, applicants must: Have a bachelor’s degree with a minimum GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale Currently be working in a formal or informal education setting Submit an online Graduate School application which requires: Unofficial transcripts (official transcripts will be required if you are accepted into the program) Official GRE or MAT scores The test score requirement will be waived if you received a 3.0 GPA or higher in last degree earned A current résumé Three recommendation forms Recommendation forms are emailed directly to recommenders via the online application process At least two recommendations must focus on your teaching and/or education-related experience A personal statement Statement should address your desire to pursue your chosen specialization (Effective and Reflective Teaching, Experiential Learning for Early Childhood, Instructional Coaching, or STEAM) and how you plan to incorporate what you learn into your classroom. Approximate length is one page Official TOEFL/IELTS scores for international students Additional information concerning supporting materials Program Requirements The M.Ed. in Teaching and Learning is an entirely online degree. Students must maintain a grade-point average of 3.0 or higher in their coursework. At this time, all M.Ed. in Teaching and Learning students will select from one of these specialization areas: Effective and Reflective Teaching, Experiential Learning for Early Childhood, Instructional Coaching*, or STEAM. Teaching and Learning M.Ed. (30 credit hours): Core pedagogical course work (18 credit hours) ED 8250 – Cultural Diversity in Education ED 8600 – Classroom-Based Research ED 8650 – Curriculum Theory ED 8990 – Capstone Project EDF 8020 – Learning and Motivation in Context EDF 8080 – Contemporary Issues in Assessment Specialization courses (12 credit hours) Specialization Area Effective and Reflective Teaching Experiential Learning for Early Childhood Instructional Coaching STEAM Specialization Course #1 Effective Teaching Practice and the Learning Environment (ED 8810) Advanced Early Childhood Education Foundations and Methods (EDEC 8100) Elements of Instructional Effectiveness (ED 8750) STEAM Instructional Design (ED 8700) Specialization Course #2 Differentiation in Instruction and Student Work Analysis (ED 8820) Advanced Early Childhood Education Curriculum (EDEC 8200) Curriculum, Instruction, Assessment, and Learning from a Mentor Perspective (ED 8760) STEAM Transdisciplinary Teaching (ED 8710/8711) Specialization Course #3 The Reflective Practitioner (ED 8830) Math, Science, and Technology Inquiry in Early Childhood (EDEC 8950) Critical Issues in Instructional Coaching and School Leadership (EDLT 8280) STEAM Assessment (ED 8730) Specialization Course #4 Leading from the Classroom (ED 8840) Parent Education in Early Childhood Multicultural Settings (EDEC 8000) Reflective Instructional Coaching Practice (EDLT 8290) STEAM Enacted and Evaluated (ED 8720/8721) * To be considered for the Instructional Coaching specialization, you must have at least three years of classroom teaching experience. Plan of Study The M.Ed. in Teaching and Learning is an 18-month program spanning five semesters. Your initial summer semester will offer two courses in the second summer term. Each semester thereafter is divided into two mini semesters allowing students to focus on one course at a time. – Year 1 – Summer ED 8650 – Curriculum Theory EDF 8080 – Contemporary Issues in Assessment Fall ED 8600 – Classroom-Based Research I Specialization Course #1 Spring ED 8990 – Classroom-Based Research II Specialization Course #2 – Year 2 – Summer ED 8250 – Cultural Diversity in Education Specialization Course #3 Fall EDF 8020 – Learning and Motivation in Context Specialization Course #4 More detailed course descriptions can be found in the Graduate Catalog. Students will receive a registration email indicating which course section they must use for registration. Transfer Credits Transfer credits from other institutions are not accepted for this degree program. South Carolina is a member of the State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement (SARA) and Clemson University (CU) is an approved SARA institution, which means we adhere to established standards for offering post-secondary e-learning programs in all member states. Please review our state authorizations to see if this program is offered in your state and our process for student complaints against the university. Specialization Areas M.Ed. in Teaching and Learning students choose from one of four specialization areas during the application process. Students are admitted to the program based upon their chosen specialization area. Effective and Reflective Teaching The Effective and Reflective Teaching specialization will provide teachers with an understanding of how content, context, pedagogical content knowledge, and student diversity ground intentional teaching practices. This specialization is also beneficial for students beginning or renewing their National Board Certification. The courses are aligned with content and practices encouraged at National Board workshops and were developed in collaboration with the SC National Board Network. As students complete the four course sequence, they develop an understanding of practices and evidence needed for their National Board portfolio. Please note that successful completion of the coursework does not guarantee National Board certification. Experiential Learning for Early Childhood The Experiential Learning for Early Childhood specialization equips you to understand and design experiential learning opportunities for young children that are grounded in inquiry practices and support the development of 21st-century learners. Using brain-based learning research, you will explore how to support children in making connections between prior knowledge, new learning explorations, and social constructs. You will gain knowledge and experience with play-based learning, working with families and communities, brain development, and strategies for implementing experiential learning processes in literacy, math, and science for young children. Coursework will focus on advanced curriculum design and innovative inquiry-based instructional approaches. In addition, teachers will gain an understanding of the historical and political underpinnings in early childhood education and the need to create culturally-responsive environments for young children. For licensed Early Childhood teachers, this program will enhance current practice and afford increased opportunities to support students. The program can also lead to a rewarding position in the field of Early Childhood Education, such as Program Director, Curriculum Developer, Non-Profit Leader, or Policy Advocate. Instructional Coaching* The instructional coaching specialization equips current or aspiring instructional coaches with the skills to be an effective instructional or curriculum specialist within their school or district. Coursework focuses on the practical application of reflective coaching practices and professional learning opportunities within the school setting to empower teachers for a positive impact on student growth. An instructional coach brings evidence-based practices into classrooms by guiding their colleagues in data analysis, best instructional practices, and collaboration to improve student learning. Instructional coaching supports professional learning within the school setting by focusing on student learning needs. As schools adopt varying coaching models and roles for teachers, this program seeks to create pathways to develop a positive school culture where mutual respect, collegial relationships, and a shared responsibility for student learning emerges. Through this four-course sequence, participants will develop an understanding of professional learning, coaching models, student-centered collaborative protocols, and student-centered instructional and coaching practices. Coursework takes place within the context of the school setting with a focus on practical application of learning to gain a deeper understanding of instructional coaching. Clemson University is excited to offer a unique concentration in the area of instructional coaching. Those completing the Instructional Coaching specialization will have the option to apply for a Teacher Leader endorsement from the South Carolina State Department of Education. * To be considered for the Instructional Coaching specialization, applicants must have at least three years classroom teaching experience. STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Mathematics) The STEAM education specialization provides teachers with the ability to infuse STEAM practices in their classrooms. STEAM is a transdisciplinary approach for engaging all learners to solve real-world problems. The four-course sequence equips teachers with skills to create, implement, reflect and assess students engaged in STEAM units. This specialization is appropriate for K-12 teachers of all content areas. STEAM education is an innovative approach to teaching in the K-12 setting. This transdisciplinary approach engages learners to solve real-world problems through STEAM problem scenarios. STEAM education has demonstrated much success in re-engaging learners and teachers through problem-based approaches. The four-course sequence builds upon a foundational understanding of the differences between STEM and STEAM, by creating standards-based problem-scenarios in the first course, STEAM Instructional Design. The second course, STEAM transdisciplinary teaching, uses technology to connect and integrate disciplines a transdisciplinary approach. The third course, STEAM Assessment, focuses on assessment practices including both formative and summative assessments that are aligned to the STEAM units. The fourth course, STEAM Enacted and Evaluated, provides teachers with the opportunity to test out these practices in their classroom while receiving supportive feedback. At the end of this sequence, teachers will be prepared to implement STEAM units, practices, and new pedagogical techniques that will create a platform for creativity, communication, critical thinking, and collaboration in their classrooms. Those completing the STEAM specialization will have the option to apply for a STEAM endorsement from the South Carolina State Department of Education. Program Delivery Courses are offered in eight-week terms (excluding summers which are five-week terms). Taking one course at a time, students complete two courses each semester. Most students complete the program within five semesters. With the support of CU Online, Clemson uses the most advanced online technology to provide a rich, supportive, seamless learning environment. Courses will be asynchronous thus allowing students to access courses when and where they need. While students have great flexibility in asynchronous learning, there are key deadlines in each course when learning modules must be completed. Students will be provided with timely support from instructors and technology personnel so that learning is maximized. Canvas, a very user friendly learning management system, is used for all courses to guide the learning experiences. An orientation module will be provided before the start of the program to allow students to become comfortable with expectations and the technologies before classes formally start. Financial Information Tuition and Fees Explore information on tuition and fees using the Student Financial Services’ tuition and fee calculator (be sure to choose the ‘Go to Online’ tab at the top of the page). S.C. Teacher Incentive The Teaching and Learning M.Ed. offers a South Carolina Teacher Incentive reducing tuition by 10% for all in-state SC K-12 teachers/leaders. Financial Aid For information regarding Financial Aid, please contact the office of Student Financial Aid. Teaching and Learning Online M.Ed. Award The Teaching and Learning Online M.Ed. Award was established to recognize exemplary educators who show evidence and potential as a leader in their field. This honor is awarded to one student from each M.Ed. specialization (Effective and Reflective Teaching, Experiential Learning for Early Childhood, Instructional Coaching and STEAM), who are currently enrolled in their second semester coursework. This award will provide up to $6,000 tuition reduction for selected awardees over the last three semesters of their Online M.Ed. in Teaching and Learning coursework. The Teaching and Learning M.Ed. program coordinator will contact students concerning the application cycle during their second semester of study. Information Sessions & Calendar Review our College of Education Graduate Calendar to view upcoming events and information sessions. Graduate Event Calendar Find Out More For more information regarding the Program or questions associated with applying, please contact Julie Jones, Student Services Manager, at jgambre@clemson.edu or 864-656-5096. Department of Teaching and Learning Copyright © Clemson University Department of Teaching and Learning | 105 Gantt Circle 864-656-5118 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson