Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Getting Started Student Insurance Request a Waiver Request a Waiver In order to request a waiver or exception from enrollment in the Columbia Plan, you must have alternate coverage that meets the University requirements as outlined below. You must provide sufficient information regarding your alternate health insurance plan to allow independent verification that your plan meets the University requirements. All requests are considered but approval is not guaranteed. Charges on your student account are only removed if a waiver or exception is approved. Expand all Collapse all Waiver Request Deadlines Term Summer (Coverage: May 15 - August 14, 2022) (New students only) Request a Waiver Patient Portal Deadline June 30, 2022 Term Fall (Coverage: August 15 - December 31, 2022) Request a Waiver Open Enrollment begins July 15, 2022. Deadline September 30, 2022 Term Spring (Coverage: January 1, 2023 - August 14, 2023) (New students only) Request a Waiver N/A Deadline February 15, 2023 Criteria for Comparable Insurance Waiver Criteria Full-time domestic students are required to enroll in the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan or provide proof of comparable coverage as described below. Domestic students should review their alternate coverage to determine whether it meets all of the following criteria: The plan must meet the requirements of the Affordable Care Act, including coverage for routine, urgent, and emergent care for all of the act’s Essential Health Benefits in New York State. For a description of the act’s Essential Health Benefits, read Compare Your Coverage. The plan must be licensed to do business in the United States. The plan must be effective and remain in force for the duration as noted below. New Students Fall admits: August 15, 2021 to August 14, 2022 Spring admits: January 1, 2022 to August 14, 2022 Summer admits: May 15, 2022 to August 14, 2022 Continuing Students August 15, 2021 to August 14, 2022 Graduating Students August 15, 2021 to the last day of the month in the last academic term in which the student is registered Students with approved waivers assume full responsibility for medical costs not covered by their health insurance plan. New and continuing Fall students can request a waiver (domestic students) from mandatory enrollment via the Patient Portal no later than September 30, 2021. Medicaid Waiver Requests Any domestic student with active Medicaid coverage may request a waiver from the University insurance requirement. Waiver requests from students with New York State Medicaid will generally be approved. Requests from students with Medicaid coverage from outside New York State are typically denied if the student is living in New York, as these plans may not provide coverage outside of their state of residence. All waiver requests are evaluated on an individual basis. When making waiver decisions, all Medicaid-covered students should consider the gaps in coverage they may experience while attending the University; for instance, travel abroad or anywhere outside their Medicaid state may not be included. New York State Medicaid-covered students may not be covered while outside of New York. In addition, referral options for students enrolled in Medicaid plans needing specialists’ care off-campus may be limited. Students with Medicaid who are interested in The Columbia Plan may wish to address concerns about cost with their school financial aid office. Financial Responsibility Every student’s policy coverage must meet the waiver requirements outlined by the University. Plans that do not meet these criteria are not considered adequate coverage and will not be accepted. Requirements are established to minimize a student’s risk of incurring exorbitant medical costs. Students accept full financial responsibility for hospital, laboratory, physician, diagnostic testing, and other medical costs not covered by their insurance. Charges on Your Student Account Statement A charge for the Fall term of the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan may appear on the first student account statement, even if the student has requested a waiver. These charges will be removed if the request is approved within 10 business days of submitting the request. Considering an Alternate Health Plan Health insurance benefits can vary from plan to plan. As domestic students considering either using The Columbia Plan or enrolling in an alternate insurance plan, here are a few points to consider before making a decision: Does the alternate insurance plan meet University criteria for comparable insurance coverage? Will you age out of an insurance plan carried by parents or legal guardians while you are at Columbia? What costs are involved in extending coverage provided through a previous employer, such as COBRA? Compare these with the premiums for the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan. A student unsure about how an alternate plan compares to The Columbia Plan should contact their insurance carrier for details about available benefits, including access to in-network providers in New York City, cost of in- and out-of-network providers, cost of lab examinations, prescription medication benefits, and any other frequently used benefits. Why The Columbia Plan? The Columbia Plan provides coverage for a broad range of healthcare needs, both while students are in the United States and abroad: Benefits are designed to complement services available on-campus (in-person and telehealth). An on-campus clinician serves as a student’s primary care provider (with no co-pay). Access to services is streamlined and paperwork is limited. Students pay a co-pay for visits with consulting providers off-campus (when referred by an on-campus clinician) and for prescription medications. The plan offers access to the nationwide Aetna network of specialists, representing clinicians in most areas of medical specialty. This can be of particular benefit while traveling or living away from campus. Benefits are included for emergency assistance while traveling outside the United States. The plan covers an academic year, starting August 15, 2021 and ending August 14, 2022. It is important to know that The Columbia Plan meets and exceeds the requirements for the following: Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) U.S. Department of State Exchange Visitor Program for International Students & Scholars Affordable Care Act (ACA) New York State Department of Insurance Related Links About the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan Dental and Vision Benefits Eligibility for Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan Loss of Health Insurance Insurance for Families Health Care for International Students Referral Requirements Request a Waiver Contact Us Columbia Health Insurance Office John Jay Hall, 3rd Floor [email protected] 212-854-3286 Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close