Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Harrisburg Academics Capital Semester Temple in High Schools Conferences Course Catalog Business Community Credit Courses Healthcare Human Services Leadership & Management Noncredit Courses Online Professional Development Youth Services Civil Investigations Training Services Conference Services Podcasts Rent Our Space Research and Evaluation Services Virtual Reality Development About A Message from the Director Community Partners Contact Us Employment Opportunities Events Hours, Directions, and Parking Institutes & Programs Meet the Staff News Nonprofit Resources Spotlight University College Course Grant ≡ Menu Academics Capital Semester Temple in High Schools Conferences Course Catalog Business Community Credit Courses Healthcare Human Services Leadership & Management Noncredit Courses Online Professional Development Youth Services Civil Investigations Training Services Conference Services Podcasts Rent Our Space Research and Evaluation Services Virtual Reality Development About A Message from the Director Community Partners Contact Us Employment Opportunities Events Hours, Directions, and Parking Institutes & Programs Meet the Staff News Nonprofit Resources Spotlight University College Course Grant Welcome to Temple Harrisburg. Strengthening your future and the community. 0.00 11.00 So many of you, who have become part of the Temple University Harrisburg community, are impacting people's lives in extraordinary ways, during these extraordinary times. 12.00 20.00 From Protective Services Investigators, to Community Health Workers, to those of you working with individuals with disabilities... 21.00 26.00 to Social Workers, Medication Administrators, non-profit leaders and advocates... 27.00 38.00 and those who keep our utilities going, we are all here, to simply say, thank you. Your browser does not support the video tag. So many of you, who have become part of the Temple University Harrisburg community, are impacting people's lives in extraordinary ways, during these extraordinary times. From Protective Services Investigators, to Community Health Workers, to those of you working with individuals with disabilities... to Social Workers, Medication Administrators, non-profit leaders and advocates... and those who keep our utilities going, we are all here, to simply say, thank you. Show Closed Captions Nonprofit Resources Professional Development Institutes & Programs Rent Our Space Spotlight Prepped & Ready This course is designed to help prepare current high school students for college. Students will be provided with a syllabus for the course, and will learn strategies for managing the course load and completing assignments. Tips will be given for time management, study skills, college preparation and on how to set yourself up for a successful academic school year. Learn More Tweets by Temple_HBG Welcome Temple Harrisburg is located in the downtown Strawberry Square complex, near many state associations and businesses. We offer a variety of academic and certificate programs, professional development opportunities, and nonprofit services. Browse Our Course Catalog News & Announcements Link Martin and Temple University Harrisburg: Focused on Community... Temple University Harrisburg Promotes Mental and Physical Health With... President Wingard visits the Harrisburg campus Make your mark and support Temple today! More News Upcoming Events May 10 Grant Writing Summer Cohort 2022 Jul 28 Registration Deadline for Personal Care Home Adminstrator 100-Hour Course More Events TEMPLE UNIVERSITY HARRISBURG 234 Strawberry Square Harrisburg, PA 17101 Cherry and White Directory Hours, Directions, and Parking Contact Temple Harrisburg Events TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright , Temple University. All rights reserved. Designed and developed by Web Communications.