Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Research Data Management Research Data Management | Brown Policies | Federal Policies on Data Sharing | Research Data Education & Events | Forms, Templates and Resource Guides | Data Sharing Resources Research Data Management The Office of Research Integrity (ORI) provides centralized support, education, and policy development to facilitate and promote the responsible and ethical acquisition, use, sharing and maintenance of research data at Brown. ORI partners with the research community to assist with the implementation of strategic initiatives involving the use of research data, helping to build new models of data sharing and related processes to enable Brown to achieve its research collaboration and growth objectives. For questions concerning research data use, retention, and management, please contact us at [email protected]. Looking for the services and tools Brown offers to support Research Data Management? Check out Brown University Library’s Research Data Management and Sharing Services website! Brown Policies Research Data and Research Materials Management, Sharing and Retention Policy Research Data and Research Materials Management, Sharing and Retention Policy FAQs and Case Studies Federal Policies on Data Sharing NIH Policy for Data Management and Sharing On October 29, 2020, NIH issued its final NIH Policy for Data Management and Sharing. This Policy sets forth a number of standards for good data management practices and data sharing expectations applicable to research funded by NIH. Most notably: Researchers applying for NIH funding must create and submit to the NIH a Data Management and Sharing Plan (a “Plan”) outlining how scientific data and any accompanying metadata used in research will be managed and shared, considering any potential restrictions or limitations. A Plan should include a brief summary of: - The type of data managed, preserved, and shared; - Related tools, software, and/or code used; - Standards applied to the data; - Methods of data preservation, access, and associated timelines; - Approach for access, distribution, and reuse considerations; and - Oversight of data management and sharing. Researchers should consider how to maximize appropriate sharing of data, while acknowledging existing legal, ethical, or technical factors that may call for justified limitations or exceptions. In particular, NIH highlights the importance of informed consent and emphasizes that researchers should clearly communicate with prospective subjects how their scientific data are expected to be used and shared. For more information watch: Preparing for the NIH Data Management and Sharing Policy Putting the NIH Data Management and Sharing Policy into Practice at Brown (slides available here) Supplemental Information: FAQs for the NIH Policy for Data Management and Sharing Statement on Final NIH Policy for Data Management and Sharing Elements of an NIH Data Management and Sharing Plan Allowable Costs for Data Management and Sharing Selecting a Repository for Data Resulting from NIH-Supported Research Informed Consent for Secondary Research with Data and Biospecimens NIH Institutes, Centers, and Offices Data Sharing Policies NIH Scientific Data Sharing Website A one-stop shop for all the information you need to know about NIH sharing policies. COGR NIH Data Management and Sharing (DMS) Policy Resource Page The latest on the COGR Readiness Guide, NIH policies, direct links to COGR Updates, letters, and presentations referencing NIH DMS, and additional resources. NIH Data Sharing Policies Notice of Data Sharing Policy for NIMH Notice of NIAAA Data-Sharing Guidance for Human Subjects Grants Research NHGRI Implementation of the NIH Genomic Data Sharing Policy Notice Announcing the National Human Genome Research Institutes Expectation for Sharing Quality Metadata and Phenotypic Data Notice of Data Sharing Policy for Autism Data Data Sharing Plan Resources Key Elements to Consider in Preparing a DSP Under NIH Extramural Support Example Plan Addressing Key Elements for a DSP Under NIH Extramural Support Example Data Repositories NIH Data Sharing Repositories NIMH Data Archive (NDA, also be used by NIAAA) National Science Foundation (NSF) Data Management Plan Requirement Data Sharing Requirement Dissemination and Sharing of Research Results Research Data Education & Events Online Trainings Data Risk Classification Levels Brown has classified its data into risk-based categories for the purpose of determining who is allowed to access the information and what security precautions must be taken to protect it against unauthorized access. It is the data and service owner’s responsibility to ensure appropriate security measures are taken depending on the risk classification. To learn more, watch this video. Data Use Agreements Do you need to access data from another institution or share your research data outside of Brown? A Data Use Agreement (DUA) is a formal, written contractual agreement into which two or more parties enter and establishes specific ways in which data may be used and how it must be protected. To learn more, visit our DUA Page and watch our DUA online training. Research Data Management Onboarding Checklists Are you starting a new lab or a new research project? Check out our research data management onboarding checklists online training to learn how to best manage your research data. This presentation is intended to supplement the research data onboarding checklists document. Research Data Management Offboarding Checklists Are you closing out a project or leaving Brown? Check out our research data management offboarding checklists online training to learn how to best manage your research data. This presentation is intended to supplement the research data offboarding checklists document. Research Data and Research Materials Management, Sharing, and Retention (RDM) Policy When you leave Brown, can you take your lab notebooks with you? Who owns the data you’ve collected? Can you delete your data files after your manuscript has been published? Research data are the data/information another researcher would need to reproduce or evaluate your results. This includes items such as lab notebooks, photographs, digital images, data files, software, statistical records, etc. To answer these research data questions and more, review the RDM Policy, RDM FAQs, and this online training video. Study Closures Have you ever wondered when is the right time or how to close a study? Do you need guidance on how to fill out the Human Research Protection Program's study closure form? Are you questioning the data management and retention schedule involved with closing a study? This video will answer all these questions and more. The National Institute of Mental Health Data Archive (NDA) Webinars and Tutorials The National Institute of Mental Health Data Archive (NDA) makes available human subjects data collected from hundreds of research projects across many scientific domains. NDA provides infrastructure for sharing research data, tools, methods, and analyses enabling collaborative science and discovery. For researchers new to NDA data sharing, we highly recommend watching the NDA New Grantee Orientation for an overview of the entire data submission and sharing process. For access to all NDA webinars and tutorials, click here. Don't know where to start? Watch our overview of data sharing policies requiring global unique identifiers (GUIDs) here. Uploading a Data Set to the Brown Digital Repository (BDR) Are you interested in using the BDR to store or share your research data? Watch this training for a step-by-step guide. In order to comply with journal expectations and requirements, we recommend reviewing the De-Identification Certification Form and BDR Data Sharing Statement Resource discussed in the presentation. Forms, Templates and Resource Guides Document Purpose Brown Digital Repository (BDR) Data Sharing Statement Resource This resource provides a step-by-step guide on how to utilize the BDR (page 1), a guide to what data should and should not be made available (page 2), suggested journal data sharing statements (page 3), and example data sharing statements in journals using the BDR (page 4). De-Identification Certification Form Protected health information (PHI) may be classified as de-identified by (1) certifying that none of the 18 HIPAA-defined identifiers are present, or (2) certifying through statistical analysis that the likelihood of an individual being identified using the data is very small. The purpose of this form is to confirm that data has been properly de-identified using either of these methods. This form should be used before depositing de-identified data into the BDR. Data Repository Consent Addendum Guidance Data Repository with GUIDs Consent (15+) Template Data Repository with GUIDs Assent (7-14) Template Data Repository with GUIDs Parent Permission Template Researchers who are funded by several NIH Institutes are now required to deposit de-identified human subjects data into federal repositories. If an award has this requirement, participants must consent before their research data can be shared. The NIH Data Repository Informed Consent Addendum is intended to supplement the informed consent process and explain the requirement to participants Research Data Management Onboarding Checklists The purpose of these checklists is to serve as a guide for Brown researchers starting a new laboratory (checklist 1) or starting a new research project (checklist 2) with regard to research data by orienting them to existing policies, guidance, and tools available at Brown. Research Data Management Offboarding Checklists The purpose of these checklists is to serve as a guide for Brown researchers closing out a project (checklist 1) or leaving Brown (checklist 2) with regard to research data by orienting them to existing policies, guidance, and tools available at Brown. Data Sharing Resources The Library offers researchers on campus access to the Brown Digital Repository (BDR) as a platform for providing and preserving access to Brown researchers’ data online. The Library can help you to deposit data in the BDR, or it can help you with identifying other open data repositories provided or supported by the federal government, a research funder, or a specific scientific community that may better meet your needs depending on the type, size, and number of data files. In addition to the BDR, Brown maintains memberships and subscriptions to several resources for sharing data with collaborators or other researchers. Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR) at the University of Michigan is a data archive of more than 250,000 files of primarily quantitative research in the social, behavioral sciences, and public health domains. It hosts 21 specialized collections of data in education, aging, criminal justice, substance abuse, terrorism, and other fields. ICPSR collaborates with a number of funders, including U.S. statistical agencies and foundations, to create thematic data collections ICPSR offers a restricted data enclave for securely sharing de-identified data collected from participants who have provided informed consent for the long-term archiving and sharing of their de-identified data with other researchers. The Qualitative DataRepository (QDR) at Syracuse University is an archive for qualitative and multi-method research data, primarily in the social and behavioral sciences. QDR offers various access controls for securely sharing de-identified data collected from participants who have provided their informed consent for the long-term archiving and sharing of their de-identified data with other researchers, including depositor-approved access. [email protected] is Brown’s electronic laboratory notebook (ELN) platform. Faculty can create and share LabArchives electronic lab notebooks for internal and external collaborators, as well as ones for their students and lab personnel, and avoid losing access to a notebook when a student graduates or personnel leave their labs. [email protected] offers unlimited storage and 4GB per file upload. LabArchives is CFR21 Part 11-compliant and offers detailed auditing/version control for maintaining access to research records. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) ORI staff directory Research Misconduct Policy Authorship Policy IRB IACUC Export Control Conflict of Interest QA/QI Program DURC ESCRO IBC Research Data Management Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat