Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Tobacco Tobacco Most people who smoke plan to quit and many students say they’ll stop smoking when they graduate. If you smoke or chew tobacco regularly, it’s a good idea to try to take a break from tobacco. A break can help you reduce how much you smoke and it can give you an idea of how hard it could be to stop when you want to quit. If you find that taking a break is really difficult for you, that’s a sign that you should get some help. These pages have many tips on how to quit and resources to help you. What is tobacco? Tobacco is a leafy plant grown around the world. In 2007, four countries—China, Brazil, India, and the United States—produced two-thirds of the world’s tobacco. Tobacco is currently grown in 16 states in the United States. The largest tobacco-producing states are Kentucky and North Carolina. They account for 71% of all tobacco grown in the United States. Tobacco is an addictive substance because it contains the chemical nicotine. Like heroin or cocaine, nicotine changes the way your brain works and causes you to crave more and more nicotine. This addiction to nicotine is what makes it so difficult to quit smoking and other tobacco. How is it used? Tobacco can be used in a wide variety of ways. The most common forms in which it is used in the United States include: -Smoked (oral): Tobacco can be shredded and smoked in cigarettes, cigars, cigarillos, and pipes. -Chewing tobacco (oral): Chewing tobacco is loose-leaf smokeless form of tobacco that is often coated with a flavoring licorice or molasses. The chewing tobacco is placed between the teeth and the gums in the form of a wad and then it is chewed in order to release the flavor and nicotine, which is then absorbed by the mouth. -Snuff (nasal): Snuff is a form of smokeless tobacco made from ground or pulverized tobacco leaves. The snuff is pinched in the hand and then inhaled or insufflated. This delivers a quick hit of nicotine through the nasal mucosa. -Dip (oral): Dip is a type of finely ground or shredded, moistened smokeless tobacco product. The dip is removed from the can, and put into the mouth between the gums and teeth where the nicotine can be absorbed by the mouth. -Snus (oral): Snus is a form of finely ground or shredded, moistened smokeless tobacco product that is contained in pouches. Much like dip, it is placed into the mouth between the gums and teeth where the nicotine can be absorbed by the mouth. What are the health risks of smoking tobacco? Smoking harms nearly every organ of the body, causes many diseases, and reduces the health of smokers in general. For more information about the specific harms that smoking can cause, view the schematic below: How can I quit? There are a variety of techniques for quitting smoking. Whether you choose to quit "cold turkey" or go slowly by "nicotine weaning", you can decrease any discomfort you may feel as you quit. Follow these tips: It helps to plan ahead. Set a date to stop smoking and then stick to it. Write down your reasons for quitting smoking. Read over the list every day, before and after you quit. Keep a record of when you smoke, why you smoke, and what you're doing when you smoke. You'll learn what triggers you to smoke. You may want to first stop smoking cigarettes in certain situations, such as during your work break or after dinner, before actually quitting. Make a list of things you can do instead of smoking. Be ready to do something else when you want to smoke. Ask your doctor about medication or about using nicotine gum or patches. Some people find these aids helpful. For some, you'll need a doctor's prescription. Others are available over the counter, which means you don't need a prescription. Join a smoking cessation support group or program. Call your local chapter of the American Lung Association. Let family and friends know that you are quitting, and ask for their support. Strategies for remaining abstinent once you’ve stopped: Don't carry a lighter, matches, or cigarettes. Keep all of these smoking reminders out of sight. If you live with someone who smokes, ask them not to smoke around you, or better yet, to quit with you. Don't focus on what you're missing. Think about the healthier way of life you're gaining. When you get the urge to smoke, take a deep breath. Hold it for up to 10 seconds and exhale slowly. Repeat this several times until the urge to smoke passes. Keep your hands busy. Doodle, play with a pencil or straw, or work on a computer. Change activities that were connected to smoking cigarettes. Take a walk or read a book instead of taking a cigarette break. When you can, avoid places, people, and situations associated with smoking. Hang out with people who don't smoke. Go to places that don't allow smoking, such as the movies, museums, shops, or libraries. Don't substitute food or sugar-based products for cigarette smoking. Eat low-calorie, good-for-you foods (such as carrot or celery sticks, sugar-free hard candies) or chew gum when the urge to smoke strikes. Drink plenty of fluids, but limit alcoholic and caffeinated beverages. They may be triggers that make you want to smoke. Exercise. It helps you burn off stress and relax. Consider starting a fitness program before you quit. Get support for quitting. Tell people about your progress. Be proud of what you're doing! Work with your doctor to make a plan using over-the-counter nicotine-replacement aids or prescription medication. How do I help a friend quit? Click here for ways to help a friend. Resources www.QuitNowRI.com, 1-800-QUIT-NOW (1-800-784-8669) The Smokers' Helpline provides referrals to local programs, phone counseling and will mail out self-help materials and quit smoking information packets. It is free and confidential. University Health Services 401.863-3953 Confidential medical care, including prescriptions for Zyban. Located at 13 Brown Street on the corner of Brown and Charlesfield Streets. BeTobaccoFree.gov US Department of Health and Human Services website with resources and information to quit smoking. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment Calling EMS If you are wondering if you should call EMS, you should call EMS. If you are still wondering, click here. Talking to a Friend About Drinking or Drug Use It's not easy to know what to say when you're worried about a friend's drug or alcohol use. Click here to learn what to do and what not to do. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook