Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Join Our Team Home About Join Our Team About Alumni Association Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team You belong at Boston College Come for the experience. Stay for your purpose. Whether it’s the innovative liberal arts education, commitment to student formation, the Division 1 athletics, being part of the vibrant city of Boston, or the inclusive community and culture that serves a broader mission, Boston College has something for everyone. If you thrive in dynamic, fast-paced environments and have a passion for serving others, University Advancement is calling. Join an outstanding team of people dedicated to the success of the Boston College community. Nicole Dumas If you are considering your next step in your professional journey, I would love to talk to you. Whether you see a job that interests you below or you are interested in an exploratory conversation, please email me at nicole.dumas@bc.edu - Connect with me on LinkedIn University Advancement Positions Advancement Information Systems (Senior) Systems Integrator/Developer Alumni Affinity Programs Alumni Relations Assistant Alumni Class & School Engagement Assistant/Associate Director Alumni Class & School Engagement (Law School) Alumni Regional Engagement Assistant/Associate Director, Alumni Regional Engagement Annual Giving Programs Assistant/Associate Director, Annual Giving Leadership Programs Assistant/Associate Director, Annual Giving Programs, Law School Development Assistant Annual and Leadership Giving Senior Associate Director, Annual and Leadership Giving Corporate Foundation & Relations Development Assistant Gift Planning Associate/Senior Associate Director, Gift Planning Major Giving Associate/Sr. Associate Director, Major Giving Regional Director, Major Giving (Midwest) Regional Director, Major Giving (New England) Leadership Giving Assistant/Associate Director, Leadership Giving Participatory Giving Assistant/Associate Director, Participatory Giving Associate Director, Participatory Giving Prospect Development Prospect Development Analyst/Sr. Prospect Development Analyst Schools & Programs Assistant/Associate Director, Schools & Programs Director of Development, Schools & Programs Stewardship & Donor Engagement Senior Associate Director, Stewardship & Donor Engagement University Advancement Administrative Assistant, University Advancement View all open positions available at Boston College. 'Home Away from Home' The Cadigan Alumni Center is a welcoming, state-of-the-art facility open to all Boston College alumni, parents, and friends. Located on the Brighton Campus at 2121 Commonwealth Avenue (directly adjacent to the former cardinal’s residence), the building features spaces designed specifically for alumni and parent visits, including a special guest office and a beautiful, sunlit atrium that provides a warm and relaxed setting where friends can reconnect with one another during visits to the Heights. The center, reconstructed from the former Chancery of the Archdiocese of Boston, is named in honor of proud BC alumnus and longtime University patron Patrick F. Cadigan ’57, Ph.D., and his family’s gift to the Light the World campaign. Read more about this gift in: The Boston Globe WBUR On June 29, 2012, the Boston College community came together to celebrate the official dedication of its new Cadigan Alumni Center. Jim Husson Dedication Remarks Thank You Pat Reception remarks made by Senior Vice President for University Advancement Jim Husson, P'21 “This evening, we come together to not simply name a building, but to dedicate ourselves to the purpose that this building—the Cadigan Alumni Center—represents. Indeed, we gather in this space very much as honored delegates, representatives of a community that bear witness to the commencement of work that will take place within these walls and that calls upon all those who visit this center to do so as “men and women for others.” And in doing so, we pay tribute to the alumnus who has made this moment possible. The novelist and sailor, Herman Melville, once said, "Life’s a journey that’s homeward bound." Few people embody this instinct more than Patrick F. Cadigan. Pat has always remained close to his roots, looking fondly homeward even as he moved to the West Coast as a young man and became a successful business leader and California real estate investor. The morals and principles that were instilled in him at home and in his Jesuit education at BC High and Boston College have always grounded him, yet have enabled his ambitions and accomplishments to soar. Anyone who knows Pat can’t help but be impressed by his love of family and friends, his deep affection for BC High and Boston College, and his authenticity. With all that he has achieved in life, Pat has remained true to the values of his early, formative years, and is still very much that local neighborhood boy who so quickly called the Heights home. Like so many of the alumni of his generation, Pat is the son of Irish immigrants, and was raised in Cambridge, where he both studied hard and worked hard to pay his way through college. Some of you may recall his father’s business, where Pat worked part-time. It was officially called the Celtic Café, but was known by the locals in Cambridge simply as Cadigan’s. But it was much more than a business—it was the neighborhood stop where friends gathered after a long day to share stories, to celebrate their joys, and to offer encouragement to those who needed support. Looking around this grand atrium, it strikes me that the spirit of that place is very much with us tonight, and will forever set the tone that helps to welcome alumni back to what we might well call BC’s version of Cadigan’s. Since graduating from Boston College in 1957, Pat has had a remarkable career. He worked as a product manager at Sylvania Electronic Systems in Waltham for a few years before being recruited to the West Coast to oversee sales and marketing for the Electronic Engineering Company of California. Rapidly rising through the ranks, he became its president and CEO leading the firm for nearly 20 years, and overseeing its national and international expansion. Pat subsequently served on the boards of more than a dozen high-tech and electronics firms, and assumed the reins as chairman and CEO of several public companies. A successful real estate investor as well, Pat is known in all he does for a keen eye and clear judgment—skills that we might like to think he began to hone first at BC High and later here in the Heights. Always one to value education, Pat earned an MBA from Boston University, a degree from Harvard University’s Advanced Management Program, and a master’s degree and PhD from Claremont Graduate University, where he studied under the late, renowned business philosopher Peter Drucker. And so to Pat, and to all of Pat’s family, we officially dedicate this building the Cadigan Alumni Center. Pat, we hope that this crystal flame John now presents to you and Tandi will remind you of how you have heeded that call—that it will call to mind the spark that you have lit, and that will forever glow, here in the Cadigan Alumni Center. May I ask that everyone join me in applauding and thanking Patrick F. Cadigan, Boston College Class of 1957." Vincent Quealy, Jr. '75, P'06, '07, '10 Remarks Ever to Excel For Boston Reception Remarks Made by BC Alumni Association President Vincent Quealy, Jr. '75, P'06, '07, '10 On behalf of the more than 165,000 Boston College alumni, I am delighted to express our deep gratitude to Pat for his splendid gift. You cannot imagine the enormous pride and delight on the faces of our alumni when they visit the Cadigan Alumni Center for the first time. As they can readily see, the Cadigan Alumni Center has it all—spacious meeting and conference rooms, a call center, well-equipped office space, and an atrium that can accommodate occasions as grand as this evening’s or as simple as a relaxing conversation with a friend. This striking building recognizes the central role that alumni play in the life of the University and reminds them that they always have a home at BC. That knowledge is as important for our alumni who live at a distance, as it is for those who reside nearby. During the past year alone, the Alumni Association hosted 375 events throughout the United States and abroad, with over 43,000 alumni and friends attending. The Cadigan Alumni Center will serve to promote cooperation and coordination among the many staff members essential to the planning and sponsorship of such an extensive schedule of events. Generous and supportive alumni—such as all of you—are always necessary to advance the fortunes and legacy of any great university and so your Alumni Association engages in a continuing effort to enlist more and more alumni in the vibrant and rich traditions which characterize Boston College and to make clear what so distinguishes this place: commitment to service; commitment to its Catholic, Jesuit traditions; and commitment to lifelong learning. Our goal in the coming year is to help alumni expand and enhance their connections to BC and to increase their level of investment in its mission and in its future. The Cadigan Alumni Center will be the hub of these endeavors. Pat, your enormous generosity and heartfelt expression of gratitude for the education you received at BC High and at Boston College inspire others to reach high and to support the University in its ambition to Light the World. You have already made the future of our Alumni Association look brighter than at any time in its history. Thank you. Contact Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4700 800-669-8430 617-552-1491 (fax) alumni.comments@bc.edu Boston College Office of University Advancement (Development Office) Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4700 617-552-9080 (fax) uacommunications@bc.edu Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok