Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Graduate College Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Application Programs Contact Mission Prospective Application Application for Nondegree Application Fee / Waivers Available Programs Connect With Us Frequently Asked Questions Request more information Funding International Students International Instructions English Requirements University Resources Current Students Academic Awards & Events Academic Information Events & Deadlines Graduate College Handbook Graduation New Student Orientation New Student Checklist Program Handbooks Program of Study / Committee Theses & Dissertations You and Your Major Professor Funding Professional Development Career Services Center for Communication Excellence Graduate & Professional Student Senate Student Forms Student Tools University Resources Faculty and Staff Academic Awards & Events Academic Information Events & Deadlines Graduate Program Review Graduate College Handbook Mentoring & Advising Online & Paper Forms Funding Graduate Tools Program Contacts (DOGE List) Program Handbooks Postdoctoral Getting Started Postdoctoral Scholar Resources Principal Investigator Resources Academic Awards Benefits Policies Postdoctoral Appointments Postdoctoral Association Postdoctoral Contact People (PCP) Professional Development Career Services Center for Communication Excellence Grant Writing Diversity Faculty Funding Recruiting Practices Mentoring Student George Jackson Symposium McNair Student Associations Principal Investigator Resources Home > Postdoctoral Scholars > Resources > Principal Investigator Resources Information on this page: Preparing Onboarding Wellness and Community Communication and Mentoring Preparing OSPA – There is a new auto pop-up window in the grant spreadsheet template to plan for updated/minimum salary/stipends, raises, and conference travel. Also available, the fringe benefits website for postdoctoral scholars. Salary/Stipend Levels - Please note: When the individual has obtained a Ph.D. that is one year or older, the Graduate College assumes that they have other relevant postdoctoral scholar/professional experience (as defined by National Institutes of Health (NIH)). If this is not the case, then the PI will need to provide justification for the lower amount. SalaryHiring Forms/Procedures – Upon determining that you would like to hire a postdoctoral scholar, email your Staff Recruiting Specialist (SRS) to initiate the process. Be prepared to submit a job summary, description of minimum qualification(s) and preferred qualifications, location, cost center, and other relevant position/posting information. The SRS will initiate the process in Workday, and the action will route to you as the Manager and then to the Business Unit Manager for approval. Upon approval, the job will then be advertised on www.jobs.iastate.edu for a minimum of seven (7) days. The Manager can request assistance with additional external advertising. Additional Hiring Resources Grant Agency Mentoring Plan Template National Science Foundation (NSF) Grants – All proposals include postdoctoral scholar mentoring plans NIH Grants – Requirement of Individual Development Plans in progress reports for postdoctoral scholars Resources University of Wisconsin ICTR Mentees: Selection Resources Howard Hughes Medical Institute Article: Tell us something a postdoc said or did during an interview that made you sure he/she wasn't right for your lab. Discussion Points International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) Departments Info - Guided Information for departments inviting New International Faculty, Staff, and Visitors Prospective Postdoctoral Scholar Information National Postdoc Association – Going in with Your Eyes Open www.jobs.iastate.edu Onboarding Postdoctoral Scholar Orientation - Encourage attendance to the orientation given by the Postdoctoral Office. Both PI and postdoctoral scholars will receive email invites. Orientations are given several times throughout the year. Encourage attendance of the ISU Postdoc Association (PDA) general meetings. The PDA provides a professional setting with guest speakers, great peer connections and discussions at social gatherings. Postdocs will receive a welcome email from the Postdoctoral Scholar Office and also from the ISU Postdoc Association. Resources Pre-Arrival Info for New ISU Postdoctoral Scholars Post-Arrival Info for New ISU Postdoctoral Scholars First six months for PIs First six months for Postdocs ISU Postdoc Association National Postdoc Association - International Postdoc Survival Guide Discussion Points Wellness and Community ISU WellBeing ISU – Employee Assistance Program - 24/7 benefits with a direct line to free confidential and professional help. University Resources Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Program Ames Public Library Ames Main Street Cultural District Ames Chamber of Commerce Ames Park and Recreation Think Ames Events Main Street Farmer’s Market North Grand Farmer’s Market Iowa Public Radio Ames Public Library Communication and Mentoring Utilize the ISU Postdoctoral Scholar Experience Outline (listed below) as a communication tool to discuss with your PI/Mentor your scientific, educational and professional goals, expectations, etc. Professional Standards and Mutual Respect – Consider using the AAMC compact. It serves both as a pledge and a reminder to mentors and their postdoctoral scholars that their conduct in fulfilling their commitments to one another should reflect the highest professional standards and mutual respect. Compact listed in Resources. Postdocs and PIs will receive an E-Newsletter from the PDO once a month during the academic year. Maintain open communication with the postdoctoral scholar and include a periodic review of mutual expectations. Discuss meeting set-ups: (group, sub-group, one-on-one) that are held to discuss research progress. Comment on: format, frequency and duration. Encourage the postdoctoral scholar to seek additional mentors. Promote inclusiveness. Cultural/Global Differences - If you are not familiar with a particular culture, it is of great importance to demonstrate willingness to communicate with and to understand each postdoctoral scholar as a unique individual. Family Responsibilities - Both women and men may face challenging family issues. The PI should be alert to postdocs who need extra support when having a child, raising a child alone, returning to school after child-rearing, caring for an elderly parent, etc. Bridge Funding – Arrival of New Child, Employee Assistance Program Resources ISU Postdoctoral Scholar Experience Outline National Postdoc Association – Core Competencies Checklist Compact between PI/Mentor and Postdoctoral Scholar – AAMC University of Wisconsin ICTR Mentors: Selection and Resources University of Minnesota – Free, Self-paced Online Mentoring Faculty Burroughs Wellcome Fund and Howard Hughes Institute - Making the right moves: a practical guide for new faculty and postdocs Content Collection: Mentoring Advice American Association for the Advancement of Science Mentoring International Postdocs Video Series Office of Research Integrity How to Be Proactive in Your Mentoring Relationships - National Postdoc Association Mentor Standards – Gladstone Institutes Recovering From Postdoctoral Scholar Mistakes – Science Magazine Lessons Learned Conflict Management Ombuds Office - A service on campus that is professional, confidential, independent, and neutral resource available to informally work through work-place challenges with colleagues or supervisors, or policies and procedures. Templates Grant Agency Mentoring Plan Template NSF Grants – All proposals include postdoctoral scholar mentoring plans NIH Grants – Requirement of Individual Development Plans in progress reports for postdoctoral scholars ➤ Graduate College 1137 Pearson Hall 505 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011 grad_college@iastate.edu 515-294-4531 phone Facebook Twitter Linkedin Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...