Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Film and Media Arts Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Film and Media Arts Major Apply Visit Request More Info Film and Media Arts Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Fine Arts in Film and Media Arts Gain skills in directing, writing and experimental media, and find your individual creative voice with a Bachelor of Fine Arts in Film and Media Arts in Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Achieve a specialized perspective on film and media with concentrations in Directing, Media Arts or Screenwriting. The Film and Media Arts BFA is a 122-credit bachelor’s degree designed to fully prepare you for professional, independent work in the motion picture and media industries. In your coursework, you’ll focus on and develop original ideas, learn entrepreneurial and technical skills, and have full creative autonomy over your projects. Students are mentored by Film and Media Arts faculty, who have been honored with Oscar, Emmy, Guggenheim, Rockefeller, Fulbright, Sundance and international awards. As a Film and Media Arts student, you’ll have access to the department’s cutting-edge production equipment, including an array of film cameras. Learn more about Film and Media Arts Department facilities. Temple is located in central North Philadelphia, in close proximity to the city’s independent theaters and studios such as the Nu Millenium Studios, the Prince, the Ritz Landmark Theater, as well as the Philadelphia Film Society. Choosing between a BFA and a BA in Film and Media Arts Deciding whether a BFA or BA is right for you depends on your academic needs and professional goals. The Film and Media Arts BFA offers an intensive, arts-based degree program concentrating on Directing, Media Arts or Screenwriting. The BFA focuses on developing students’ creative voices and powers of personal expression. The BA in Film and Media Arts provides a more general approach to the field, giving students the option to focus their studies in one of four concentrations—Cinematography, Post-Production, Producing and Screen Studies. Concentrations You can focus on Film and Media Arts or you can take one of the following concentrations. Directing Directing students focus on documentary or narrative films, and coursework for both investigates analytical and conceptual tools for film analysis, cultural influences on filmmaking, and fiction and non-fiction directing. View Concentration Details Media Arts Prepare to enter graduate media arts programs or pursue artistic careers in the media arts or creative industries. Areas of study include 2-D and 3-D digital animation; augmented reality; interactive narrative; media projection design for performances, public spaces or sculptures; sensor-based interactive media; video game design, programming or theory; video art; video installation; web design; and other forms of experimental media. Read more about the Media Arts concentration in the Bachelor of Fine Arts in Film and Media Arts program. View Concentration Details Screenwriting Prepare to enter graduate film programs or pursue a professional career in film and serial writing. This program focuses on narrative feature-film and serial writing. Read more about the Screenwriting concentration in the Bachelor of Fine Arts in Film and Media Arts program. View Concentration Details Classes & Curriculum Students in this BFA degree program can personalize their curriculum by choosing one of three distinct concentrations. Each concentration requires between 70 and 73 credit hours, lending more intensive and strategic studies in filmmaking and media arts. Some of the core courses include Filmmaking, Media & Culture, and Producing. Learn more about Film and Media Arts BFA courses. Related Graduate Degrees Film and Media Arts MFA MediaXarts MA Related Graduate Certificates Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Fine Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $18,168.00 per year Out-of-state: $31,440.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The School of Theater, Film and Media Arts academic advisors will help you chart your course through your academic program. They guide you in choosing electives, as well as navigating policies and procedures regarding changes of major, leaves of absence and withdrawals, and registration. Leanna Arnold is the senior academic advisor for the Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: leanna.arnold@temple.edu Program Contact Allan Barber is the director of undergraduate students for the Film and Media Arts department. Phone: 215-204-8399 Email: allanbar@temple.edu Faculty Mentoring Faculty are an invaluable resource for specific information about your major. They can also help you to prepare for both graduate school and your future career. Students in the Theater Department select a faculty advisor within their first year, while those in the Department of Film and Media Arts are assigned faculty mentors. Students can sign up for advising sessions with faculty mentors throughout the semester. Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations give you the opportunity to gain stage performance or production experience, express yourself without classroom restrictions, and network with other film and theater professionals. In addition, you can make friends and enhance your social life. Consider joining one or more of the following clubs. Delta Kappa Alpha is a selective national organization whose mission is to foster lifelong character, collaborative and creative storytelling, ethical and productive business practices, philanthropic action, and fraternal bonds by and between students of the cinematic arts. Film in Color is an organization geared toward creating a welcoming space for students of color within Temple’s Film Department, affording the opportunity to come together to create, discuss, learn from and network with one another. The Greater Philadelphia Film Office Next connects Philadelphia-area students, recent graduates and rising content creators with industry leaders. Mise-en-Femme is a production organization aimed at encouraging women to work together to gain knowledge and hands-on experience in the art of filmmaking. They also run Temple Women’s Fest, which is a showcase of the efforts of some of the most influential female filmmakers. The Queer Film Collective’s mission is to empower queer filmmakers and explore queer film both in theory and practice. Both queer and straight students are welcome to join. Temple Film Collective is a group of Temple student independent filmmakers who produce their own films and host an online film festival. The University Media Screening Society meets once a week to screen a film from Temple's Media Library. Sometimes, screenings are substituted with special events. Wandering Studios is a student film organization focused on helping students create short films throughout the semester. Learn more about Film and Media Arts student clubs and organizations. Study Away Spend a semester or summer studying in the Los Angeles Study Away Program. This program provides students with direct learning insights and professional work experiences in the media and entertainment industries. The lots and soundstages of historic Raleigh Studios in Hollywood, California, serve as the backdrop for academic coursework, including a guest lecture series featuring notable alumni. Internships span a broad spectrum of opportunities in advertising, entertainment management, film, public relations and television. Learn more about Temple’s Los Angeles Study Away Program. Explore Temple’s other study abroad options, including opportunities in China, Italy, Japan and the UK. Accreditation The Film and Media Arts program is associated with the University Film and Video Association, an international organization of university and industry professionals working in the field of media production. CA-FMA-BFA Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Film and Media Arts Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info