Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Admissions Assistantships Awards Presentations The M.S. program The Ph.D. program Program InformationPh.D Graduates Courses & Syllabi Graduate Exams Graduate Handbook Memphis Graduate Seminar Take Action Student FAQ Cantor Sect Contact Us Home Math Sciences Graduate Graduate Presentations Presentations Joon Do Chang gave a presentation at the Great Lakes Mathematical Physics Meeting (GLaMP2022). His presentation was titled "Applications of Statistical Physics". Joon Do Chang represented Memphis-Math Graduates in Houston Workshop - Graduate Student Talks. His presentation was titled "Classical Hamiltonian Dynamics and its Applications to Dynamical Systems". 2022 Faudree’s Research day at the University of Memphis. Rasika Mahawattege gave a presentation at the SIAM Conference on Control and Applications, CT21 (Virtual). Rasika Mahawattege gave an invited presentation at the DMS PhD Students at the SIAM Southeastern Atlantic Section Annual Meeting (SEAS2021). His presentation was titled "Fluid-structure interaction with Kelvin-Voigt damping: analyticity, spectral analysis, exponential decay". Stephen Guffey gave an invited presentation at the DMS PhD Students at the SIAM Southeastern Atlantic Section Annual Meeting (SEAS2021). His presentation was titled "Local null controllability for a bacterial infection in a chronic wound". Fayaz Ahamed gave an invited presentation at the DMS PhD Students at the SIAM Southeastern Atlantic Section Annual Meeting (SEAS2021). His presentation was titled "Analysis of the models for film extrusion :quasi-cylindrical and thin-shell”. Stephen Guffey gave a virtual invited presentation on June 3, 2021 at the Online Seminar “Control in Times of Crisis” organized by the University of Paris and University of Sevilla [Spain]. The title of his presentation was "Local Null Controllability for a Chemotactic Model for Bacterial Infection in a Chronic Wound." Stephen Guffey presented an invited talk entitled "A quick introduction to modern differential equations" at Western Kentucky University, on April 12, 2021. Sutthirut Charoenphon and Rasika Mahawattege attended the 39th Southeastern-Atlantic Regional Conference of Differential Equations (SEARCDE) at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical Univeristy (October 2019). They gave presentations titled "Vanishing Relaxation Time Dynamics of the Moore-Gibson-Thompson (MGT) Equation Arising in High Frequency Ultrasound (HFU)" and "Fluid-Viscoelastic Structure Interaction", respectively. Sutthirut Charoenphon attended the 5th Annual Meeting of SIAM Central States Section at Iowa State University and was invited to give a talk on the topic "Vanishing Relaxation Time Dynamics of the Moore-Gibson-Thompson (MGT) Equation Arising in High Frequency Ultrasound (HFU)" (October 2019). Yunusa Olufadi gave a presentation at the International Conference on Statistical Distributions and Applications (October 2019) in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Priyadarshi Dey was invited to speak at Conference: International Workshop on Operator theory and its Applications(IWOTA) 2019, Lisbon, Portugal. His presentation was titled "Hermitian projections on some Banach spaces." Priyadarshi Dey and Monika each gave a presentation at the Special Session of the International Workshop in Operator Theory and Applications in July 2019 at Instituto Superior Técnico in Lisbon, Portugal. The presentations were entitled "Bicircular Projections on Some Operator Spaces" by Dey, and "Quotient Operators on Tensor Product Spaces" by Monika. Sutthirut Charoenphon gave a poster presentation at The 2019 Association for Women in Mathematics (AWM) Research Symposium in April 2019 at Rice University, USA. The presentation was entitled "Vanishing Relaxation Time Dynamics of the JMGT Equation Arising in High-Frequency Ultrasound (HFU). She was also invited to speak on the same topic for the Western Kentucky University AMS Student Chapter in April 2019. Marcelo Bongarti and Sutthirut Charoenphon gave poster presentations at the 2019 Central for Nonlinear Analysis (CNA) Workshop on Mathematical Models for Pattern Formation in March 2019 at Carnegie Mellon University, USA. The presentations were entitled "The Singular Thermal Relaxation Limit for the MGT-Equation" by Bongarti, and "Vanishing Relaxation Time Dynamics of the JMGT Equation Arising in High-Frequency Ultrasound (HFU)" by Charoenphon. Buddhika Priyasad gave an invited talk, entitled "Uniform Stabilization of 3D Navier-Stokes Equations Using Finitely Many Localized Tangential Boundary Feedback Controls", at the SIAM Conference on Analysis of PDEs in December 2017, in Baltimore, Maryland; 2018 Shanks Workshop on Mathematical Aspects of Fluid Dynamics in March 2018, at Vanderbilt University; the 2018 SIAM Great Lakes Section Annual Meeting (GLSIAM) in April 2018, at Wayne State University, Detroit, USA; Joint Mathematics Meeting of AMS in January 2019, in Baltimore, Maryland; and AMS Spring Southeastern Sectional Meeting in March 2019 at Auburn University, Auburn, AL. Sutthirut Charoenphon, and Steven Guffey each gave a presentation at The Workshop on Dynamics, Control and Numerics for Fractional PDE's in December 2018 at the University of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras Campus, USA. The presentations were entitled, "Vanishing Relaxation Time Dynamics of the JMGT Equation Arising in High-Frequency Ultrasound (HFU)" by Charoenphon, and "Excursions into Chemotaxis via Diusive Phenomena" by Guffey. Fesobi Saliu was a research participant at the Math-to-Industry Boot Camp II at the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications, University of Minnesota in June and July 2017. This summer research program consisted of a small-scale project designed to introduce the concept of solving open-ended problems while working in a team, and the research project "How do robots find their way home? Optimizing RFID beacon placement for robot localization and navigation in indoor spaces," posed by industry scientists. Fesobi presented his work at the conclusion of the program. Graduate Assistants from the department participated in the KUMUNU Conference on PDE, Dynamical Systems and Applications 2017 in April 2017 at University of Nebraska Lincoln, USA. They gave poster presentations entitled "Vanishing Relaxation Time Dynamics of the MGT Equation Arising in High-Frequency Ultrasound (HFU)" by Sutthirut Charoenphon, "Excursions into Chemotaxis via Diusive Phenomena" by Stephen Guffey, "Stabilizing the Turbulence of Navier-Stokes Equations in Besov and Lq− based Sobolev Space" by Buddhika Priyasad, and "Heat-Structure Interaction with Viscoelastic Damping: Optimal interface! or Interior Regularity via Fractional Powers, Control Theoretic Implications" by Rasika Mahawattege. Sutthirut Charoenphon and Buddhika Priyasad were Research Guests at Oberwolfach Seminar: Mathematical Theory of Evolutionary Fluid-Flow Structure Interactions in November 2016 at Leibnitz Institute in Oberwolfach, Germany. Organized by Barbara Kaltenbacher, Klagenfurt; Igor Kukavica, Los Angeles; Irena Lasiecka, Memphis; Roberto Triggiani, Memphis. Sutthirut Charoenphon was an Invited Graduate Student Panelist at University of Nebraska Lincoln, USA, 18th Nebraska Conference for Undergraduate Women in Mathematics (January 2016). Her presentation was titled "Choosing a Mathematics Graduate Program." Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/22/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.