Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Programs Boston College School of Social Work Graduate Programs Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Boston College School of Social Work In keeping with the four-century-old Jesuit tradition of educating students in the service of humanity, Boston College established a School of Social Work (SSW) in March 1936. The SSW offers the Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) and the Doctor of Philosophy in Social Work (Ph.D.) degrees. In addition to providing foundation courses for all students, the Master of Social Work program of study affords each student the opportunity to specialize in a social work practice intervention method. The two areas of specialized practice are Clinical Social Work and Macro Social Work on the master’s level. Seven advanced Fields-of-Practice are offered: Afrocentric Social Work; Children, Youth, and Families; Global Practice; Health; Latinx Communities; Mental Health; and Older Adults and Families. The School also offers a research-oriented Doctoral program that prepares scholars to pursue knowledge that will advance the field of social welfare and social work practice. Social Work Courses Social Work Faculty Social Work Website Professional Program: Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) Doctor of Philosophy Degree Program Dual Degree Program—M.S.W./Ph.D. Doctoral Funding and More Information Professional Program: Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) Print Open All Close All Introduction to the Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) Introduction to the Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) The M.S.W. Program offers students a choice of specialized practice. Students select either Clinical Social Work Practice or Macro Social Work Practice. Clinical Social Work is the process of working with individuals, families, and groups to help them deal with intrapersonal, interpersonal, and environmental problems. The process utilizes a bio-psychosocial assessment and intervention model to increase an individual’s well-being. Each person, family, or group has a unique story to share, one that is shaped by cherished beliefs, values, and traditions, one that is connected to the larger stories of communities and nations. The complex process of helping others is, fundamentally, one of empowerment. In practicing clinical social work, the aim is to strengthen, support, and accompany clients in their healthy efforts to repair their past and build a future that honors their uniqueness and brings into reality their personal dreams. Our challenging, dynamic, and contemporary program of professional formation transforms compassion into therapeutic empathy. We integrate social work’s enduring values, theories, and skills with bold and innovative ways of helping others. This fusion of old and new creates an environment where students learn that interventions, guided by evidence-based practice, become powerfully therapeutic when imbedded in a relationship of respect and authentic concern. Macro Social Work Practice aims to affect change within large systems at the community, organizational, and policy levels. It focuses on social innovation and leadership, emphasizing the development of ideas, mechanisms, and new social arrangements to enhance community capacity to address complex social challenges. Students train in the foundations of participatory community-based social work practice and research and learn recent advances in human-centered design, systems thinking, and other analytical tools to drive innovation, address complex social problems, and enable sustained social impact. In their coursework and field internships, students gain practice skills that focus on advocacy, leadership and administration, financial management and resource development, and novel approaches to drive social change and advance the common good. The M.S.W. Program is accredited by the Council on Social Work Education and is designed for completion in either two full-time academic years of concurrent class and field work or in a Three-Year or Four-Year Program. All degree requirements must be fulfilled within a period of five years. The M.S.W. curriculum is divided into four overlapping components: Foundation, Specialized Practice, Field-of-Practice, and Electives. This configuration allows students to establish a solid foundation in social work practice, choose either Clinical or Macro Social Work Practice as their area of specialized practice, and then choose a Field-of-Practice to gain advanced practice skills in a particular area. The Field-of-Practice choices are: Afrocentric Social Work; Children, Youth, and Families; Global Practice; Health; Latinx Communities; Mental Health; and Older Adults and Families. Foundation Courses Foundation Courses Seven foundation courses provide the basis for the advanced curriculum. In compliance with the Council of Social Work Education (CSWE) Accreditation Standards, the foundation curriculum includes content on Social Work competencies: professional and ethical behavior, diversity, human rights and justice, research, policy, engagement, assessment, intervention, and evaluation. The following courses comprise the Foundation curriculum: SCWK7701 The Social Welfare System SCWK7721 Human Behavior and the Social Environment SCWK7723 Re-thinking Diversity: Systems of Oppression and Privilege SCWK7747 Research Methods in Social Work Practice SCWK7762 Basic Skills in Clinical Social Work SCWK8800 Basic Skills in Macro Practice SCWK9921 Field Education I Specialized Practice Courses Specialized Practice Courses Students select one of two areas of specialized practice to focus their acquisition of practice skills: Clinical Social Work or Macro Social Work. Required Clinical courses include an advanced human behavior course, SCWK7722 Psychosocial Pathology, and two methods courses that focus on clinical assessment, practice theory, and evidence-based practice interventions for a variety of problem areas and populations utilizing various treatment modalities—individual, family, and group. The required Clinical courses are as follows: SCWK7722 Psychosocial Pathology SCWK8855 Clinical Practice with Children and Families: Assessment, Intervention, and Evidenced-Based Practice SCWK8856 Clinical Practice with Adults: Assessment, Intervention, and Evidenced-Based Practice SCWK8841 Program Evaluation One Advanced Policy Course (SCWK8802 Policy Issues for an Aging Society, SCWK8805 Policy Issues in Family and Children, SCWK8806 Global Policy Issues, or SCWK8817 Health and Mental Health Policy) SCWK9932 Field Education II—Clinical Social Work Required Macro courses include an advanced human behavior course, SCWK8889 Social Innovation, and two method courses that focus on organizational functioning with a focus on leadership for change and skill development in bringing about social change through collective action. The required Macro courses are as follows: SCWK8833 Leadership and Social Transformation SCWK8888 Community Engagement for Social Change SCWK8889 Social Innovation SCWK8841 Program Evaluation One Advanced Policy Course (SCWK8802 Policy Issues for an Aging Society, SCWK8805 Policy Issues in Family and Children, SCWK8806 Global Policy Issues, or SCWK8817 Health and Mental Health Policy) SCWK9942 Field Education II—Macro Social Work Fields-of-Practice Fields-of-Practice Students entering their final full-time year will choose a Field-of-Practice. Each Field-of-Practice consists of an advanced practice course. All Fields-of-Practice require either SCWK9933–9934 Field Education III–IV—Clinical Social Work or SCWK9943–9944 Field Education III–IV—Macro Social Work. Afrocentric Social Work The Afrocentric Social Work Field-of-Practice centers on the African Diaspora and Black experiences, inclusive of continental Africa, the Caribbean, Latin America, Central America, and the United States. The Afrocentric perspective places African people as participants and agents shaping their life chances and experiences. It will equip MSW students with a holistic approach towards a critical examination of social work from an African-centered perspective. Students will be exposed to Afrocentric thinking and practice modalities—clinical and macro—that function as staples of social work with Black communities. Required course includes: Clinical Social Work and Macro Social Work SCWK8846 Advanced Practice in Afrocentric Social Work Children, Youth, and Families The Children, Youth, and Families Field-of-Practice prepares students for professional practice with children, adolescents, and families seen across multiple settings. Clinical students will be proficient in practice with child and adolescent mental health intervention, including individual, group, and family modalities. Macro students will develop competence in leadership and administration, including personnel management, grant writing, and financial management within the context of community-based nonprofit organizations and public systems. Required courses include: Clinical Social Work SCWK8872 Advanced Clinical Practice with Children, Youth, and Families Macro Social Work SCWK8885 Management of Organizations Serving Children, Youth, and Families Global Practice The Global Practice Field-of-Practice prepares students to become effective international social workers. Students learn how to collaborate with local partners around issues of humanitarian aid, social development, and capacity-building. Guiding principles are human rights, global justice, and diversity. Final year field placements will be managed in partnership with international organizations. Required course includes: Clinical Social Work and Macro Social Work SCWK7797 Frameworks and Tools of Global Practice Health The Health Field-of-Practice prepares students for clinical or macro practice in healthcare settings by providing specialized knowledge and skills in assessment, interventions, and health and mental health policy. Clinical Social Work students, with knowledge of diagnostic assessment and evidence-based interventions, will focus on treatment with individuals, couples, families, and small groups that are aimed at dealing with the impact of illness on the client system in culturally diverse environments within medical/healthcare settings. Macro Social Work students, with knowledge of community engagement, leadership, and social innovation, will focus on skills in planning, designing, and funding for innovating and sustaining current programs within medical/healthcare settings. Required courses include: Clinical Social Work SCWK8873 Integration of Behavioral Health and Medical Care Practice Macro Social Work SCWK8897 Planning for Health and Mental Health Services Latinx Communities The Latinx Communities Field-of-Practice trains MSW students to work with Latinx communities in the U.S. and around the world. Our innovative program includes: culturally-centered coursework and field placements, tailored mentoring, self-advocacy training, and career development guidance. From an asset-based approach, students will develop a nuanced understanding of the barriers Latinx populations encounter in accessing equitable education, social services, and health care, as well as a deep understanding of how to implement evidence-based interventions that address systemic inequities. Following a cohort model, students will take core classes taught in Spanish and intern at a field placement with one of our many partners in the Greater Boston area that serve the legal, medical, behavioral health, immigration, and educational needs of the Latinx community. Required course includes: Clinical Social Work and Macro Social Work SCWK8837 Social Services with Latinx Populations in the U.S. Mental Health The Mental Health Field-of-Practice prepares students for clinical or macro practice in mental health settings by providing specialized knowledge and skills in assessment, interventions, and health and mental health policy. Clinical Social Work students, with knowledge of diagnostic assessment and evidenced-based interventions, will focus on trauma in culturally diverse environments within mental health settings and select from a broad range of elective courses in various practice modalities. Macro Social Work students, with knowledge of community engagement, leadership, and social innovation, will focus on skills in planning, designing, and funding for innovating and sustaining current programs within mental health settings. Required courses include: Clinical Social Work SCWK8874 Adult Psychological Trauma Macro Social Work SCWK8897 Planning for Health and Mental Health Services Older Adults and Families The Older Adults and Families Field-of-Practice prepares social work students for an integrated macro and clinical practice approach to working with older adults, their families, and the social policies and programs that affect their lives. Coursework for the Field-of-Practice encompasses the entire range of health and mental health services from those provided to older adults as they “age in place” in their homes and communities through policy and advocacy functions of the local, state, and national aging network. Required course includes: Clinical Social Work and Macro Social Work SCWK8823 Practice in Health and Mental Health Settings with Older Adults Field Education Field Education Students complete a total of 1200 hours of field education (480 hours in Field Education I and II and 720 hours in Field Education III and IV). Students participate in Field Education 2 days per week in Field Education I and II and 3 days per week in Field Education III and IV. Electives Electives Students take five electives to round out their knowledge and skill-building with courses that offer advanced training in a particular area or provide new knowledge and skills in an area of interest to the student. The required Field-of-Practice advanced practice courses may be taken as electives by students from other Fields-of-Practice on a space-available basis. Elective courses are offered pending sufficient enrollment. The following courses may be offered as Elective options: SCWK7719 Group Independent Study: International Policy SCWK7724 Neurobiology of Stress and Resilience in the Life Course SCWK7725 Families Impacted by Military Service SCWK7726 Neuroscience of Human Relationships and Development SCWK7727 Substance Use Disorders SCWK7729 Public Health Social Work SCWK7733 Working with Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Questioning Youth, Families, and Adults SCWK7735 Social Determinants of Health and Mental Health SCWK7777 Services to Migrants: A Border Perspective SCWK7780 Community Based Systems Dynamics for Understanding Complex Social Problems SCWK7794 Immigrants and Refugee Issues SCWK8808 Legal Aspects of Social Work SCWK8820 Trauma Informed Psychological Perspectives in Settings of Adversity: Global and Domestic Perspectives SCWK8822 Child and Adolescent Trauma: Clinical Assessment and Treatment SCWK8824 Practice in Home and Community Settings with Older Adults SCWK8830 Social Work and Spirituality SCWK8831 Dying, Grief, and Bereavement SCWK8836 Psychodynamic Theories of Individual Development SCWK8838 Dismantling Organizational Bias through Evidence-Based Practice SCWK8840 Climate Change and Environmental Justice: Implications for Social Work SCWK8844 History of Activism in the Black Community SCWK8845 Afrocentric Organizations SCWK8847 Creating the Inclusive Workplace: Concepts in Organizational Justice SCWK8851 Policy Analysis Research for Social Reform SCWK8854 Advanced Clinical Practice with Latinx Populations SCWK8857 Group Therapy for Children and Adolescents SCWK8858 Clinical Social Work Practice in Schools SCWK8860 Couples Therapy SCWK8862 Cognitive Behavioral Therapy SCWK8864 Group Therapy SCWK8865 Family Therapy SCWK8867 Internal Family Systems Therapy SCWK8868 Dialectical Behavioral Therapy SCWK8876 Solution-Focused Therapy SCWK8877 Narrative Therapy SCWK8879 Advanced Trauma Theory and Treatment Modalities SCWK8880 Social Work Practice in Child Welfare SCWK8881 School Social Work: Program Development and Educational Policies SCWK8884 Strategic Planning for Public and Nonprofit Organizations SCWK8887 Global Child Protection Dual Degree Programs Dual Degree Programs The Boston College School of Social Work has instituted three dual degree programs with other graduate departments of Boston College and one dual degree program with the undergraduate Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences and the Lynch School of Education and Human Development. A description of the programs is available from the respective admission offices. Candidates must apply to, and be accepted by, each of the relevant schools independently. Established in 1980, the M.S.W./M.B.A. Program, in cooperation with the Carroll School of Management Graduate Programs, involves three full-time years—one each in the foundation years of both schools, and the third incorporating joint class and field education. The four-year M.S.W./J.D. Program, inaugurated in 1988 with Boston College Law School, requires a foundation year in each school followed by two years of joint class and field instruction with selected emphasis on such areas as family law and services; child welfare and advocacy; and socio-legal aspects and interventions relating to poverty, homelessness, immigration, etc. The three-year M.S.W./M.A. (Theology and Ministry), in conjunction with the Boston College’s School of Theology and Ministry, began in 1989. Three options for completing the M.S.W./M.A. include a foundation year in each curriculum with a third year of jointly administered class and field instruction; a program of summer courses taken in STM and a two-year academic program in the SSW; or an integrated program of study with courses taken in STM and the SSW during three years of study. Areas of focus include clinical work in hospitals and prisons, organizational services/administration, and parish social ministry. In cooperation with the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences and the Lynch School of Education and Human Development, the Boston College School of Social Work has instituted an Accelerated B.A./M.S.W. Program that enables Psychology, Sociology, and Applied Psychology and Human Development majors to complete the Social Work foundation courses during their junior and senior years. Students receive the B.A. at the end of four years, and then apply for admission to the School of Social Work for a final year of study in the M.S.W. Program. For sophomore prerequisites and application information, undergraduates should call the School of Social Work Assistant Dean of Enrollment Management at 617-552-4025. The School also offers an upper-division introductory course that is not applicable to the M.S.W. degree: SCWK6600 Introduction to Social Work is cross-listed with the departments of Psychology and Sociology in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences. Doctor of Philosophy Degree Program Print Open All Close All Introduction to Doctor of Philosophy Degree Program Introduction to Doctor of Philosophy Degree Program The School offers a research-oriented Ph.D. program that prepares scholars committed to pursue knowledge that will advance the field of social welfare and social work practice. Students master a substantive area of scholarship and gain methodological expertise to excel as researchers and teachers in leading academic and social welfare settings throughout the world. Grounded in core values of human dignity and social justice, the program nurtures independence and originality of thought in crafting innovative research and policy agendas for constructive social change. The School of Social Work doctoral program offers two programs of study: a Ph.D. in Social Work and a combined M.S.W./Ph.D. The Ph.D. in Social Work is designed for students with an M.S.W. or equivalent degree. The M.S.W./Ph.D. is designed for exceptionally talented students with several years’ work experience and another master’s degree. Program of Study—Social Work Program of Study—Social Work Research training is at the core of the program. Students acquire expertise in applied social and behavioral science research methodologies that are especially appropriate for investigating critical policy and practice questions. This set of courses emphasizes analytic skills needed to understand, appraise, and advance knowledge in social work. The learning process involves more than classroom instruction. Students are expected to work closely with faculty mentors in their roles as scholars and researchers. Besides required courses, students can select from an array of elective academic courses, independent studies, research internships, and teaching practicums. A minimum of 51 credit hours are required to complete the degree: 45 credits for academic courses and 6 credits for the dissertation. Among the 15 elective credits, 3 elective credits are specified to be an advanced social or behavioral science theory course, and 9 credits are specified to be a methods course. Students must pass the qualifying exam at the end of year two. For the qualifying exam, students need to produce and defend an area statement. Before beginning research on the dissertation, the student must complete all required courses and the publishable paper. Required courses include the following: SCWK9950 Professional Development Seminar SCWK9951 Survey of Research Methods in Social and Behavioral Science SCWK9956 The Dialectics of Social and Behavioral Theory SCWK9960 Regression Analysis for Social and Behavioral Sciences SCWK9964 Introduction to Statistics and Data Analysis SCWK9991 Doctoral Teaching Practicum SCWK9992 Theories and Methods of Teaching in Professional Education SCWK9993 Research Internship SCWK9994 Integrative Dissertation Seminar Total Credits The 51 credits are a minimal requirement. The actual number of courses taken by an individual student varies according to prior educational background and coursework. Dual Degree Program—M.S.W./Ph.D. BCSSW provides an option for those who don’t already have a master’s of social work to earn both the M.S.W. and the Ph.D. degrees. Applicants will be considered for acceptance into the M.S.W./Ph.D. program in exceptional cases and must possess a master’s degree in a behavioral or social science discipline in addition to considerable work experience. This program is especially well-suited for international graduate students, enabling them to acquire an understanding of fundamental American social welfare policy and social work practice prior to launching their advanced doctoral studies. A minimum of 98 credit hours are required to complete the degree: 92 credits for academic courses and field work and 6 credits for the dissertation. Among the 12 elective credits, 3 elective credits are specified to be an advanced social or behavioral science theory course, and 9 credits are specified to be a methods course. Students must pass the qualifying exam at the end of year three. For the qualifying exam, students need to produce and defend an area statement. Before beginning research on the dissertation, the student must complete all required courses and the publishable paper. Required courses include the following: SCWK7701 Social Welfare System SCWK7721 Human Behavior and the Social Environment SCWK7722 Psychosocial Pathology (Clinical) or SCWK8899 Social Innovation (Macro) SCWK7723 Re-thinking Diversity: Systems of Oppression and Privilege SCWK7762 Basic Skills in Clinical Social Work SCWK8800 Basic Skills in Macro Social Work SCWK8802, SCWK8805, SCWK8806, or SCWK8817 Advanced Policy course SCWK8846, SCWK8872, SCWK8885, SCWK7797, SCWK8873, SCWK8897, SCWK8837, SCWK8874, or SCWK8823 Advanced Practice in Field-of-Practice SCWK8855 Clinical Practice with Children and Families: Assessment, Intervention and Evidence Based Practice (Clinical) or SCWK8833 Leadership and Social Transformation (Macro) SCWK8856 Clinical Practice with Adults: Assessment, Intervention, and Evidence Based Practice (Clinical) or SCWK8888 Community Engagement for Social Change (Macro) SCWK9921 Field Education I SCWK9932 Field Education II—Clinical or SCWK9942 Field Education II—Macro SCWK9933 Field Education III—Clinical or SCWK9943 Field Education III—Macro SCWK9934 Field Education IV—Clinical or SCWK9944 Field Education IV—Macro SCWK9950 Professional Development Seminar SCWK9951 Survey of Research Methods in Social and Behavioral Science SCWK9956 The Dialectics of Social and Behavioral Theory SCWK9960 Regression Analysis for Social and Behavioral Sciences SCWK9964 Introduction to Statistics and Data Analysis SCWK9991 Doctoral Teaching Practicum SCWK9992 Theories and Methods of Teaching in Professional Education SCWK9993 Research Internship SCWK9994 Integrative Dissertation Seminar Total Credits The 98 credits are a minimal requirement. The actual number of courses taken by an individual student varies according to prior educational background and coursework. Doctoral Funding There are five major sources of funding available for students in the Doctoral Program in Social Work at Boston College: The Boston College Doctoral Fellowship in Social Work is awarded each year on a competitive basis to full-time doctoral students in social work. Full tuition and a stipend are provided for four years as long as the student maintains good academic standing and demonstrates progress toward the Ph.D. Two Fellowships are awarded each year on a competitive basis to full-time doctoral students to provide additional financial support to help encourage them to successfully complete their studies. Research Assistant positions are provided through faculty research and training grants. Teaching Assistant positions are available for some doctoral and M.S.W. courses. Additional grants and scholarship opportunities are available on an individual basis. In addition to the financial assistance directly available from Boston College, SSW doctoral students are encouraged to apply for nationally competitive fellowships from private foundations and federal agencies. For More Information For a more detailed description of course offerings, the applicant should consult the Boston College School of Social Work Bulletin, which may be obtained by e-mailing swadmit@bc.edu or by writing to the Assistant Dean of Enrollment Management, Boston College School of Social Work, McGuinn Hall, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College