COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU Strategic Plan Section Menu WSU Strategic Plan Vision, Mission and Values 2021 Strategic Plan Priorities WSU College and Other Strategic Plans Steering Committee Town Hall Meetings Activation Teams Strategic Plan History Supporting Documents and Data Share Your Feedback University Dashboards SP Update Next Steps 2020 WSU Impact The history of Wichita State is built upon big ideas and the undaunted dreamers who made them into reality. From the streets of Wichita to the far corners of space, Shockers have proven time and time again that, at Wichita State, anything is possible. It was with this in mind that the university set out to create a strategic plan that capitalized on Wichita State's unique DNA in a way that would leave a lasting impact on its students, its city, its region and its world. The resulting document is a blueprint for the university's aspirations of obtaining greater global prominence and a declaration of its intentions to serve as the flag bearer for the future of higher learning. The following is a brief synopsis of Wichita State University's big audacious plan and what it means to the future of the university and its community. 2020-21 WSU Strategic Plan Document (pdf) University Dashboards View data related to the advancement of the strategic goals of the university. Go to the dashboard Links President's Retreat Meeting Notes 2021 Strategic Plan Priorities 2020-2021 Priorities & Aspirations 2019-2020 Priorities Report Outcomes Strategic Planning Next Steps 2020 a look at 2018-2019; 2019-2020 2019-2020 University Priorities Economic Impact Study 2020 as presented by Jeremy Hill on September 22, 2020.> Arts and Culture Impact Study 2021 Vision and Mission Like many of those who once walked its campus, Wichita State's strategic plan shoots for the stars and proves that the university's pioneering spirit is alive and well. At the heart of the plan are vision and mission statements which clearly state the university's desire to chart a new course for higher learning while remaining dedicated to serving as a lifeblood to the region and doing its part to provide the highest quality of life possible to those who call it home. Vision To be one of the nation’s premier urban public research universities, known for providing impactful applied learning experiences and driving prosperity for the people and communities we serve . Mission The mission of Wichita State University is to be an essential educational, cultural and economic driver for Kansas and the greater public good. University Goals Student Centeredness Promote holistic student success through a supportive learning environment in which all of our students — past, present and future — continually thrive and grow. Research and Scholarship Accelerate the discovery, creation and transfer of new knowledge. Campus Culture Empower students, faculty, staff and the greater Wichita community to create a culture and experience that meets their ever-changing needs. Inclusive Excellence Be a campus that reflects and promotes – in all community members – the evolving diversity of society. Partnerships and Engagement Advance industry and community partnerships to provide quality educational opportunities and collaborations to satisfy rapidly evolving community and workforce needs. 2021-22 Priorities Helping families through access and affordability Provide an accessible, affordable and impactful higher education for all Kansans with increased community connections and networks. Proposed enhancements: Marcus Welcome Center, Clinton Hall, Hubbard Hall and Rhatigan Student Center. Diversify and develop our faculty and staff to better reflect our student body and region. Shocker Promise: Full tuition and fees for Pell-eligible families. Increase need-based aid. Supporting Kansas businesses with a talent pipeline that meets employer needs Provide relevant applied learning experiences that match the needs of industry, agency, and community partners. Become a nationally recognized leader in digital transformation and SMART manufacturing. Explore establishing a Wichita State location in Chihuahua City, Chihuahua, Mexico.. Increasing economic prosperity with higher education that benefits the Kansas economy Support faculty-led interdisciplinary research initiatives (2020-2023). Support the needs of the region through the newly formed Strategic Engagement and Planning office. Continue the development of the Innovation Campus by attracting new partners and establish the Maintenance, Repairing and Overhaul (MRO) initiative. Continue developing and supporting innovation and new ventures. National Center for Aviation Training expansion. University Village: Enter into financially prudent public-private partnerships on university-owned property that provide services. Support Wichita downtown development via hospitality, culinary arts and health sciences. Enhance professional development opportunities for faculty and staff. What we believe Core Values Values that have always underlined the culture at Wichita State. Integrity Transparency Personal responsibility Collaboration Access and equity Distinctive Values Values necessary to achieve the goals of the strategic plan. Seizing opportunities Adaptive approaches Positive risk-taking Innovation and creativity Knowledge creation and dynamic educational opportunities Questions or Comments? Talk to us WSU Initiatives Wichita State University’s vision is to be one of the nation’s most innovative public research universities, known for providing impactful student experiences and driving prosperity for the people and communities we serve. Important to realizing that vision is creating an assessment system that helps to clearly tell our story, as a university, to those both on-and off-campus. Reporting progress on our strategic plan helps to ensure transparency and helps all of us make decisions moving forward. Assessment and tracking WSU's assessment and tracking system, now in testing, provides all units within the university the opportunity to develop strategies and tactics unique to you and the work your unit is doing. Strategies that are aligned directly with the university's goals will apply to an overall university report. Tactics, which are specific deliverables for a strategy; and metrics, how the success of the strategy will be measured, must be entered with each strategy. Create new initiative Update initiative Initiative dashboard How-To Guide FAQ Glossary Request help 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©