Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Nebraska Menu Search Log In About News Events Maps Our Vision Leadership & Organization Diversity & Inclusion Faculty / Staff Services Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Online & Distance Education Law Global Academics Programs of Study Colleges & Departments Faculty Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Search for Classes Libraries Accounts & Services Research Office of Research & Economic Development Nebraska Innovation Campus NuTech Ventures Industry Relations Life at Nebraska Involvement & Support Living On Campus Life In Lincoln Arts & Culture Recreation & Well-Being Husker Athletics Outreach & Impact Global Nebraska Nebraska Extension Parents Association Alumni Association Entrepreneurship Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska About About Nebraska About About The University of Nebraska–Lincoln was chartered as a land-grant university on February 15, 1869, to create opportunity for the state of Nebraska. A proud member of the Big Ten Conference, the Big Ten Academic Alliance, and the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities (APLU), Nebraska is classified within the Carnegie “R1: Doctoral Universities – Highest Research Activity” category. The university is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. Role, Mission and Values Leadership and comprehensive education for the State of Nebraska History That those who follow may go further Academic Partnerships Advancement through shared values Fact Book Annual report of general info about the university A Strong Foundation Always a place of high ambition, this was one of the first institutions west of the Mississippi River to award doctoral degrees—the first being granted in 1896. The University of Nebraska established the world’s first undergraduate psychology laboratory. The discipline of ecology was born here, and the campuses reflect that tradition, being recognized as botanical gardens and arboreta. An early institutional interest in literature and the arts provided the foundations for today’s Prairie Schooner literary magazine, the University of Nebraska Press, and the Sheldon Museum of Art, which houses one of the world’s most significant collections of 20th century American art. Today, Nebraska is one of the nation’s leading teaching institutions, and a research leader with a wide array of grant-funded projects aimed at broadening knowledge in the sciences and humanities. Better to Best The University of Nebraska–Lincoln consistently ranks in the top tier of national research universities. In fact, we are ranked near the top third of all national universities, both public and private. In recent years, Nebraska has been ranked highly for value, graduation rate and access. Fiske Guide to Colleges Best Buy School, 2018 Kiplinger’s Best Values in Public Colleges, 2016 The National Jurist #1 Best Value Law School in the U.S., 2016 and 2015 U.S. Dept. of Education College Scorecard Low Costs, High Graduation Rate U.S. News & World Report A-Plus Schools for B Students Excellence in Undergraduate Education The University of Nebraska–Lincoln is a research-extensive institution with an extraordinary focus on undergraduate education. Our undergraduates learn from faculty who create new knowledge, develop one-to-one connections with students and foster a sense of community in their classes. Several signature programs exemplify this commitment to undergraduate success. The Undergraduate Creative Activities and Research Experiences Program (UCARE) connects faculty and students to work collaboratively on independent study projects that advance new knowledge. The Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management develops leaders for this era of expanding information technology and business globalization. The Johnny Carson Center for Emerging Media Arts guides creative, young pioneers who use technology to innovate, to solve human-scale problems, to entertain audiences, and to tell breathtaking stories that stimulate, provoke and inspire. Since 1988, the E.N. Thompson Forum on World Issues has hosted a diversity of viewpoints on international and public policy issues on behalf of all Nebraskans to promote understanding and encourage debate. The Heuermann Lectures focus on the sustainability of food, natural resources, renewable energy and rural communities for all people. Research & Economic Development The University of Nebraska–Lincoln is the intellectual center for the state of Nebraska, providing leadership in education and research. The citizens of Nebraska benefit from the knowledge and research generated by our faculty and students, a feature that distinguishes the land-grant mission of our university. The university's research enterprise has achieved record-breaking growth and progress over the past decade, expanding its power to transform lives across Nebraska and around the world. Legend & Legacy The University of Nebraska–Lincoln has been home to many legendary figures, including the literary naturalist Loren Eiseley, geneticist George Beadle, scientist Jay Forrester, artists Aaron Douglas and Weldon Kees, social researcher Alvin Johnson, investor Warren Buffett, tech entrepreneur Evan Williams, legal scholar Roscoe Pound, comedian Johnny Carson, diva Barbara Hendricks, artist and engineer Harold Edgerton, General of the Armies John J. Pershing, authors Willa Cather and Mari Sandoz, and many others. Today, students are building on this legacy through their research involvement in fields as diverse as sociology, geosciences, virology and agricultural sciences. We’re here to help you shape the future. Visit Nebraska Become a Husker Contact Us Address University of Nebraska–Lincoln 1400 R Street Lincoln, NE 68588 US Phone 402-472-7211 Social Media Affiliates Alumni & Friends Emeriti and Retirees Association Husker Athletics Lied Center for Performing Arts International Quilt Museum Nebraska Innovation Campus Nebraska Public Media Parents Association Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center Sheldon Museum of Art State Museum University Bookstore University of Nebraska Press University of Nebraska Foundation University of Nebraska System Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.