Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Academic Advising Academic Advising Home Change of Major Transfer Students Study Abroad FAQ Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Academic Advising Academic Advising Home Change of Major Transfer Students Study Abroad FAQ Clemson Home College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Students Academic Advising Current: Change of Major Change of Major Restrictive majors in the College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences (CBSHS) may require an application or essay for admission. Priority is typically given to applicants with a GPA above the minimum requirement. It is recommended that interested students take courses offered (not restricted by major) during their freshman and sophomore years prior to application. Refer to the Undergraduate Catalog, specifically the CBSHS sections, to look at specific course requirements. If you have general questions regarding admission into majors within the CBSHS majors, please contact the advisor listed for that major. Restrictive majors within the College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences are: Communication, Health science, Nursing, and Sports Communication. With the exception of Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management (PRTM), students can only apply twice into any restrictive program within the College. Beginning in Fall 2019, the College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences will stop changing students into majors within the college seven weeks prior to the first day of early registration opening each term. This freeze will be in effect until the first day to register each semester. Students who are hoping to change their major to one within the College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences should read the information below carefully based on the program to which they are wanting to apply. More Information Below is change of major information from various schools and departments in the College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences. Communication Communication: Be sure to visit the Department of Communication website for specific details about the competitive application process for Communication and set up an appointment in CU Navigate with the Communication advisor. Sports Communication: Be sure to visit the Department of Communication website for specific details about the competitive application process for Sports Communication and schedule an appointment in CU Navigate with the Communication advisor. Click here for information about the application process in the Department of Communication. Changing Major to Communication or Sports Communication? You must first visit the Communication or Sports Communication Change of Major sections of the program web page. Nursing There is a competitive application involved in applying to Nursing. Please visit their website and plan to meet with an advisor with follow-up questions. You can sign up for an “Explore Nursing” appointment in CU Navigate. Admission into the major is very competitive and an application is required. Students must have a minimum 2.75 cumulative GPR and must complete two required sciences in the nursing curriculum with a minimum grade of C. Applications for change of major are available January 1 of each year and are due by January 31 each year; application materials are available online either through the School of Nursing website or on this website only during the designated application period. Decisions are made March 1 following the application deadline. Please see Nursing Change of Major FAQ for more information. Psychology You must have a minimum GPA of 2.4 and 12 hours of Clemson coursework completed before you can attend a change of major meeting. More information can be found about this process on their website. Public Health Sciences There is a competitive application involved in applying to Health Science. Please set up an “Explore Health Science” appointment in CU Navigate to learn more about the application process. Admission is competitive and an application is required. Admission is not guaranteed. The application is available once a year beginning the first day of classes in the fall term through the last day of classes in December. Students with less than 50 hours earned may apply to change their major into health science with a minimum cumulative GPR of a 2.25. Students with 50 or more credit hours may apply if space is available, pending the following restrictions: Completion of the health science mathematics and statistics requirements and the general education natural science requirement Minimum cumulative grade point ratio of 2.5. Application materials are available online either through the Department of Public Health Sciences website or on this website only during the designated application period. Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management Students are required to meet with the advisor for PRTM before you can switch your major. You can sign up for an “Explore PRTM” appointment in CU Navigate. This applies to the following concentration areas: community recreation, sport and camp management; park and protected area management; recreational therapy; and travel and tourism. Please see your advisor for more specifics. Political Science You must have a minimum GPA of 2.0 and are required to meet with the advisor for political science before you can switch your major. You can sign up for an “Explore Political Science” appointment in CU Navigate. To add or change into Political Science, students must attend a change of major advising session with the departments Academic Advisor and have a 2.0 GPA based on 12 credits or more taken at Clemson or in the Bridge Program. In order to schedule a change of major advising session, students will need to utilize CU Navigate and schedule an “Explore” the desired major to change into. The change of major advising session is designed to discuss degree requirements, curriculum, graduation timelines and course fees. Upon completion of the change of major appointment your change of major application will be approved and submitted. Change of major request will be denied if the student has not attended a change of major advising session. Sociology, Anthropology and Criminal Justice Anthropology: You are required to meet with the advisor for anthropology before you can switch your major. You can sign up for an “Explore Anthropology” appointment in CU Navigate. Sociology: You are required to meet with the advisor for sociology before you can switch your major. You can sign up for an “Explore Sociology” appointment in CU Navigate. Criminal Justice: You are required to meet with the advisor for criminal justice before you can switch your major. You can sign up for an “Explore Criminal Justice” appointment in CU Navigate. To add or change into Sociology, Criminal Justice, and Anthropology, students must attend a change of major advising session with the department's academic advisor. In order to schedule a change of major advising session, students will need to utilize CU Navigate and schedule an “Explore” the desired major to change into. The change of major advising session is designed to discuss degree requirements, curriculum, graduation timelines and course fees. Upon completion of the change of major appointment your change of major application will be approved and submitted. Change of major request will be denied if the student has not attended a change of major advising session. College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Copyright © Clemson University College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences | 116 Edwards Hall 864-656-7640 | Email Us | Academic Questions intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson