Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager University Human Resources Employee Vaccinations In order to provide and maintain a safe work environment, Brown requires COVID-19 vaccination and boosters of all employees. All employees must either 1) provide proof that they have received a full course of a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) or World Health Organization (“WHO”) authorized COVID-19 vaccine or 2) obtain a medical or religious exemption approved by Brown with a reasonable accommodation. Employees who do not fulfill one of these two requirements will be placed on leave without pay, family and medical leave, or other employment status, and their status will be evaluated periodically. COVID-19 booster shots are essential for individual and community health. As previously communicated, the University is requiring that all employees (faculty, staff, postdoctoral scholars, visiting researchers, lecturers, and seasonal and intermittent staff) must receive a COVID-19 booster shot no later than January 26, 2022 (the first day of classes of the spring semester) or within thirty (30) days of becoming eligible. You can read the full announcement here. Please submit your updated vaccine record with your booster directly through Workday: Vaccine Management in Workday & Booster Management in Workday. All vaccination records will be stored confidentially in Workday and can be loaded via the Vaccine Management link in the Benefits app on your Workday landing page. If you cannot upload your card in Workday please upload your completed vaccination card with your booster via email as a pdf or jpeg to [email protected]. If submitting via email, please use Virtru to email it securely. exemptions Medical To request a medical exemption for receiving the COVID-19 vaccination, please follow these steps in Workday. Download medical exemption form to be completed by employee and employee's medical provider (a licensed physician, physician’s assistant or nurse practitioner). All medical documentation must be submitted via fax (863-2830) or email [email protected] and must come directly from the provider’s office. Employees are not allowed to submit their own medical documentation. Requests for medical exemptions will be reviewed by a panel of physicians. Religious To request a religious exemption for receiving the COVID-19 vaccination, please follow these steps in Workday. Requests for religious exemptions will be reviewed by UHR in consultation, as necessary, with the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity. All information regarding requests for and granting of exemptions, including the grounds for an exemption, will be kept confidential by University Human Resources. FAQ's COVID-19 Vaccine Frequently Asked Questions Vaccine Card & Recovery Time Frequently Asked Questions Healthy Brown: COViD-19 Healthy Brown: COVID-19 Alternative Work Assignments Employee Vaccinations Leaves Related to COVID-19 Learning and Resources Community Resources Position Classifications Staff Town Halls Also in University Human Resources Benefits Compensation Employee & Labor Relations Annual Staff Evaluations Separating Employees Staff Conflict of Interest and Commitment Recruitment & Staffing Student Employment Talent Development Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering University Human Resources University Human Resources Brown University Box 1879 350 Eddy Street, 4th floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3175 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat