By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Accessibility & Diversity Diversity & Inclusion Commitments Independent Advisory Panel More from this Section Department of Public Safety Review Student Activism Engagement Team Indigenous Students Concerns Special Committee Messages to the Community Creating an Inclusive, Welcoming and Safe Campus Community Jewish Student Concerns International Student Concerns #NotAgainSU Student Concerns Independent Advisory Panel An Independent Advisory Panel, comprised of four experts unaffiliated with the University, is responsible for engaging with the campus community and providing advice to the Special Committee in developing recommendations to build a stronger institutional framework. Read Independent Advisory Panel Report Eric D. Fingerhut Eric D. Fingerhut is the President and CEO of The Jewish Federations of North America (JFNA). Prior to his appointment at JFNA, Mr. Fingerhut served as the President and CEO of Hillel International from 2013-19. He has had a varied and distinguished career in public service and higher education. His emphasis on recruiting, training and retaining top talent, and on building a data and performance driven organization, have become models for the non-profit sector. Karol Mason Karol Mason is president of John Jay College of Criminal Justice, since August 2017. From 2013 to January 2017, she was a US Assistant Attorney General, leading the Justice Department’s Office of Justice Programs. A leader in the Obama administration on juvenile justice issues, bail reform, and re-entry from prison, Mason’s efforts also included overseeing the National Institute of Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics. Dr. Damon A. Williams Dr. Damon A. Williams is a scholar and award-winning thought leader in strategic diversity leadership and organizational change. One of the architects of the Inclusive Excellence concept in American higher education, he is the author of Strategic Diversity Leadership and The Chief Diversity Officer, and previously served as the Senior Vice President and Chief Education Officer for all Boys & Girls Clubs globally. He has worked with over 1,000 colleges and universities, Fortune 100 companies, foundations, and government agencies as a strategist, speaker, educator, and thought leader. Frank H. Wu Frank H. Wu is the William L. Prosser Distinguished Professor of Law at University of California Hastings. Prior to this, he was Chancellor and Dean of the school. Throughout his career, he has taught at Howard, Michigan, Columbia, and Stanford. He also was Dean of Wayne State Law School in his hometown of Detroit. He has served as both Chair and President of the Committee of 100, a non-profit membership organization working on promoting good relations between the US and China and the participation of Chinese Americans in all aspects of public life. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy