Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives J.D. Program and Curriculum Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum During your three years at Columbia Law School, you’ll leverage all the benefits of a world-class institution and join a tight-knit community of driven intellectuals who are poised to be leaders in the field of law. Your J.D. academic experience at Columbia Law School is powered by connections that go far beyond the classroom. Connect your studies to your practice. The Law School offers globally focused courses in both emerging and traditional areas of law and our robust curriculum covers the most compelling issues in modern legal scholarship. Connect with legal and local communities. Participate in a broad range of clinics, externships, simulations, policy labs, and other public service opportunities, which provide an insider’s view into how the law operates in practical settings. Connect with faculty experts and mentors. Work with top-tier scholars and practitioners to tackle real-world challenges, employing creative combinations of data science, advocacy, and litigation. Connect with a global society. From the classroom to the clinic, you will learn to think critically and responsibly about the law and its impact on individual lives, judicial institutions, and international affairs. Connect with your future. By the time you graduate, you will have the tools and experience you need to successfully practice law in today’s fast-paced, globalized society. Learn More Apply Now Roadmaps for Current Students Tour the Law School First Year Foundation Curriculum 2L and 3L Curriculum First Year Foundation Curriculum In your first year of law school (1L), you will build a strong foundation in legal concepts, reasoning, and analysis. Explore the roadmap for the 1L year, which plots out every academic, career development, and student life milestone month by month. 1L Foundation Curriculum Civil Procedure: Students are introduced to the principal elements of the civil litigation process, including the major phases of a lawsuit, issues of standing and jurisdiction, the effects of prior adjudication, the role of the jury, and alternatives to formal adjudication. This course also covers pleadings, discovery, pretrial adjudication, pre- and post-trial motions, and remedies such as injunctions and punitive damages Constitutional Law: This course explores the architecture of the Constitution, the American tradition of judicial review, and theories of constitutional interpretation and enforcement. Students learn about the individual and group rights afforded by the Constitution, its amendments, and two centuries of judicial interpretation, and they consider the foundations of constitutional consent, authorization, and limitations on states and the federal government, including separation of powers. Contracts: Contract law examines the nature of promises. Explore how contracts are formed, interpreted, breached, and enforced. Consider contracts within a range of contexts, such as the sale of goods or land as well as employment or family agreements, and discuss legal doctrines that govern contracts in relation to theories of justice, economic analysis, and other frameworks for evaluating public policy. Criminal Law: Defining and administering the penal code is at the forefront of policy debates across the United States. This course considers crimes and defense strategies in light of the purposes of punishment (e.g., deterrence or retribution), the application and adjudication of law by the judicial system, and the role of criminal sanctions in modern society. The course also addresses the intersection of criminal law with criminology, jurisprudence, and social theory. Foundation-Year Moot Court: To help students develop the core skills of legal practice, such as writing and delivering an argument, the Foundation-Year Moot Court requires each student to write a legal brief and argue the case orally in front of a panel of judges. Students also may choose to participate in one of many approved extramural moot court competitions in specialized areas of law, such as international or intellectual property. Legal Methods I and II: Legal Methods I offers an intensive introduction to the legal system and case analysis. All students take Legal Methods I, and each section shares a virtually uniform curriculum. Legal Methods II builds on that introduction, exposing students to important legal methods and jurisprudential, ethical, social, or cultural perspectives relevant to different areas of the law. Students have the opportunity to choose which section of Legal Methods II they take, depending on their own intellectual and professional interests. Legal Practice Workshop I and II: In the fall semester, students are given intensive training in the research, writing, and analytical skills needed in legal practice through written assignments situated in practice contexts, seminar discussions, and personal conferences. The second part of the workshop, in the spring, emphasizes appellate advocacy. Students research, write, and argue an appellate brief through the Foundation-Year Moot Court program or one of the alternative extramural competitions. Property: As a core social institution, property law poses fundamental questions about efficiency, fairness, the distribution of wealth, and the tension between public and private rights. This course examines the history and theory of ownership, government regulation, and the legal devices for allocation and development of resources. Questions about ownership of intellectual property (such as artistic and digital creations) are considered, and emerging issues, such as the ownership of body parts and cyberspace, also are explored. Torts: Tort law focuses on the common-law doctrines and precedents that assign duties of care and liability for noncontractual wrongs. This course considers negligence, the role of custom, malpractice, emotional and economic harm, causation, strict liability, products liability, nuisances, damages, defenses, and alternatives to litigation. First-Year Elective: First-year students choose one elective course for the spring semester. Recent offerings include: Corporations Empirical Analysis of Law Federal Income Taxation Ideas of the First Amendment International Law Labor Law Law and Contemporary Society Law and Legal Institutions in China Lawyering for Change Legislation and Regulation Transnational Litigation For the latest information on our curriculum, special programs, law journals, and experiential learning opportunities, visit the course guide. 2L and 3L Curriculum Upperclass Curriculum As a 2L and 3L, you will build on the skills and knowledge gained in your 1L courses by completing electives that focus on numerous aspects of the law. For example, courses, seminars, and clinics on commercial law, corporate law, gender and sexuality law, health care, human rights, legal history, national history, social justice, taxation, and more, teach you to think creatively across disciplines and find solutions to problems in unlikely places. January Term: Between the fall and spring semesters, Columbia Law School typically offers a range of intensive one-week courses on cutting-edge legal topics. January Term, or J-Term, is a time for students to explore areas of the law that may not be part of their regular course of study. Classes are designed by full-time faculty to be pedagogically innovative and provide experiential learning opportunities. Offerings have included Bioethics Mediation; Conflict Resolution and Diplomacy; Financial Methods for Lawyers; Social Justice Advocacy; and the Technology, Business, Law, and Policy of AI. Requirements: In addition to required courses, you must complete: A professional responsibility course. Two writing credits, at least one of which must meet the criteria of the Major Writing Credit. A minimum of six experiential credits. A minimum of 40 hours of pro bono service. Resources: For the latest information on our curriculum, special programs, law journals, and experiential learning opportunities, visit the course guide. Explore roadmaps for the 2L and 3L years, which plot out every academic, career development, and student milestone month by month. Other Opportunities: Enrich your learning experience by taking advantage of all Columbia University has to offer: Expand your perspective by signing up for classes at other schools at Columbia. Broaden your horizons by spending a semester abroad. Prepare for a career in international law by obtaining a dual degree at a university overseas. Areas of Study Areas of study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Areas of study Student Voices All News & Stories Min K. Kam ’22: Engage the Law in an Empowering Way Monae A. White ’22: Find a Fuller Version of Justice Emily L. Drake ’22: Be Prepared and Know When to Ask for Help Leslie Andrew Ridings ’22: Provide Mentorship and Service Now and Then: 3Ls Reflect on Their Law School Journey and What’s Next Susannah ‘Suz’ Kroeber ’21: Changing the World One Word at a Time Sneha Pandya ’21: Thinking Differently About the Law Empowering Women of Color: Strengthening a Growing Intersectional Community The Columbia Law Experience: One Semester In Beginning Columbia Law: 1Ls Tell Their Stories Next Up Monae A. White ’22: Find a Fuller Version of Justice Next Up Emily L. Drake ’22: Be Prepared and Know When to Ask for Help Next Up Leslie Andrew Ridings ’22: Provide Mentorship and Service Next Up Now and Then: 3Ls Reflect on Their Law School Journey and What’s Next Next Up Susannah ‘Suz’ Kroeber ’21: Changing the World One Word at a Time Next Up Sneha Pandya ’21: Thinking Differently About the Law Next Up Empowering Women of Color: Strengthening a Growing Intersectional Community Next Up The Columbia Law Experience: One Semester In Next Up Beginning Columbia Law: 1Ls Tell Their Stories Next Up Min K. Kam ’22: Engage the Law in an Empowering Way All News & Stories Public Interest/Public Service No matter what your area of interest, find ways to incorporate public interest and public service into your academic program and career. Academics Careers Related Experiential Learning All Experiential Learning Moot Court Moot Court Moot Court Applications are open starting January 2020. Areas of Study Leadership Litigation and Dispute Resolution Clinic Smith Family Human Rights Clinic Areas of Study Law of the Workplace Social Justice and Human Rights Policy Lab Structural Change in Public Education Structural Change in Public Education is an immersive full-semester program bringing together graduate and professional students from around the country to study and gain hands-on experience helping public education systems achieve the systemic legal and policy change needed to improve educational equity in the US and Brazil. For more information, visit our website. All Experiential Learning at Columbia Law Related Stories and News Read All Stories More in The Press Students Video What the Law Means to Me: Members of the Class of 2021 Share Their Stories Seven members of the Class of 2021 reflect on their Columbia Law School experiences and what they hope to achieve next. Students Video Annah Akhoun-Murat ’22 LL.M.: Build a Sustainable Future Students Video Emily L. Drake ’22: Be Prepared and Know When to Ask for Help Students Video Jordan A.J. Jarrett ’22 LL.M.: Use the Law to Make Meaningful Impact Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.