Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Site Navigation By the Numbers Mission & Values People Our History Accreditation Strategic Plan Wellness Podcasts Service & Community Engagement SPH Policies and Guidelines Events About Explore research at the School of Public Health Research Clusters enable faculty, staff, and students within and outside the School to identify and pursue shared interests Learn more Explore Our Degree Programs Students and faculty work together to shape rigorous, research-based experiences that respect and develop each student’s interests and ideas. Learn More Diversity & Inclusion Building a diverse and inclusive School is central to our mission and to our commitment to serve the community, the nation, and the world. Learn more Become a Health Equity Scholar The School of Public Health invites graduates of America’s Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic Serving Institutions, and Rhode Islanders dedicated to advancing health equity, to learn more about the Brown MPH Health Equity Scholars Program. Find out more Providence Providence, Rhode Island is a great place to live, study, and practice public health. Learn More By the Numbers A quick snapshot of the School's student body, faculty, grants, and academics. By the numbers Mission, Vision, & Values Learn about our mission to serve the community, the nation, and the world. mission & values People Contact information for the School's leadership and Dean's Office staff. people Our History Brown’s Public Health Program became a School of Public Health in July 2013. our history Diversity and Inclusion Working together to improve diversity and inclusion in the School of Public Health Diversity and Inclusion Service & Community Engagement We work with community partners to identify issues most important in advancing the well-being of our community. Service & Community Engagement Accreditation Our School is accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). accreditation Finance and Administration Advances the school's mission through strategic planning, financial stewardship, and operational guidance. Read More Public Health Events Jun 1 9:00am Common Grounds 121 South Main Street Jun 1 11:00am - 12:30pm DPHB Academic Grand Rounds: Social (In)Justice and Mental Health Virtual Jun 2 12:00pm - 1:00pm SPH Teaching Brown Bag Virtual Jun 2 1:00pm - 2:00pm REDCap Workshop: Automation in REDCap - Using REDCap to Automate Research Tasks Zoom View Full Calendar 284 Faculty Top 5 School of Public Health for NIH Funding Low Student-to-Faculty Ratio School of Public Health Office of Communications We share the School’s stories via print, web, social media, and strategic digital communications and assist all members of the Brown public health community with communication tools, training, and support. Visit us School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top