Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Lyle Home Academics Academics Departments Advising Multidisciplinary Programs Distance Education Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Studies Research Research Research Opportunities Contact Us Centers & Institutes Centers & Institutes Hart Center Caruth Institute Hunt Institute Darwin Deason Institute Apply Now Apply Now Visit Lyle Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Resources FAQ's Connect with Us Alumni Alumni Lifelong Learning Alumni Program Support Lyle Industry Mentor Program Recruiting at Lyle Cox & Lyle Red Zone Tailgate on the Boulevard About Lyle About Lyle Our Namesake: Bobby B. Lyle Mission Statement Message from the Dean Dean's Office Faculty Directory 9 Things Every Lyle Student Should Know Job Opportunities Support Lyle Get in Touch ☰ Lyle Newsroom SMU Lyle Home News Archives News SMU Lyle team receives Spotlight Award at Senior Design Showcase May 31, 2022 The SMU team presented an adaptive irrigation system called “Smart Sprinkler” that could measure soil moisture levels and intelligently decide the time and locations to water. SMU Lyle team places second in drone competition May 31, 2022 The 2022 Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) University Innovation Showcase sponsored by Raytheon Technologies challenges students to develop solutions for various problems in the realm of unmanned aerial systems. ARA and SMU Lyle announce microrobotics collaboration Dr. MinJun Kim, the principal investigator of SMU’s BAST Lab, along with members of his team will be contributing their expertise and providing access to their laboratory. May 16, 2022 ARA and the Biological Actuation, Sensing, and Transport Laboratory (BAST Lab) at SMU today announced a collaboration to further advance microrobotics technology for real world applications. Paul Krueger to serve as Dean ad interim of the Lyle School of Engineering May 02, 2022 Professor Krueger will begin his duties as interim dean on June 1, and will serve in this capacity until a new permanent Dean has been appointed. Jung-Chih Chiao elected Fellow of American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering March 07, 2022 J.-C. Chiao, the Mary and Richard Templeton Centennial Chair and professor in the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department in the SMU Lyle School of Engineering, has been elected a fellow of the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering (AIMBE). Conversation with Civic Leader Bobby B. Lyle February 21, 2022 Though Dr. Bobby B. Lyle wasn't born in Dallas, he has played a significant role in shaping the city into what it is today. Overwhelming numbers of uninsured dialysis patients may have a systemic solution SMU analysis suggests screening protocols set by government policy – not hospitals – may be to blame for ER strain February 08, 2022 Screening protocols to determine who qualifies for “compassionate dialysis” in hospitals with high numbers of uninsured patients are driving an unintended consequence, an SMU analysis has found. Finding her 'yes' December 20, 2021 Meet Hannah Clark '23, a Lyle mechanical engineering major and NASA intern. Clark never dreamed NASA would be in her future and now she’s completing her second stint with the space agency. Lyle CEE student wins Dwight D. Eisenhower Transportation Fellowship Working with Assistant Professor Janille Smith-Colin, PhD, PE, their research seeks to create better outcomes for environmental justice communities in the infrastructure development process, creating a more just transportation system now and for future generations. December 17, 2021 CEE PhD student Collin Yarbrough has been selected by the Federal Highway Administration as one of the 2021 Dwight. D. Eisenhower Transportation Fellows. SMU students place 5th in Water Environment Federation's Student Design Competition The SMU team presented their design for primary treatment upgrades to the City of Houston Intercontinental Airport Wastewater Treatment Plan. December 14, 2021 At the Water Environment Federation's 94th Annual Technical Exhibition and Conference, the SMU Team took 5th Place in the Student Design Competition! Julia Nolan, Fatema Sahwi, and Harshada Pednekar represented SMU's Lyle School of Engineering in the competition in Chicago, Illinois. Lyle prof Jianhui Wang listed among most "Highly Cited Researchers" for 2021 It’s the fourth time Wang, a professor with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering in SMU’s Lyle School of Engineering, has won the award. December 06, 2021 The annual list identifies researchers who demonstrated significant influence in their chosen field or fields through the publication of multiple highly cited papers during the last decade. Their names are drawn from the publications that rank in the top 1% by citations for field and publication year in Clarivate’s Web of Science citation index. OREM Chair Sila Çetinkaya Elected President of INFORMS ACORD November 30, 2021 Department Chair and Cecil H. Green Professor of Engineering Sila Çetinkaya has been elected as President of the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS) Association of Chairs of OR Departments (ACORD). We can prepare better for Hurricanes. Here's how. Response teams too often view themselves as separate entities rather than crucial cogs in a complicated response program. October 11, 2021 Lyle Professor Halit Üster in the Operations Research and Engineering Management department was recently featured in the Tampa Bay Times with his op-ed titled, "We can prepare better for hurricanes. Here's how." Jessie Marshall Zarazaga receives VentureWell Grant in Sustainable Design September 13, 2021 Dr. Jessie Marshall Zarazaga, Clinical Associate Professor and Director of the Sustainability & Development Program at Lyle, has received a VentureWell Faculty Grant in Sustainable Design. Nicos Makris named a Fellow of the American Society of Civil Engineers August 25, 2021 Congratulations to Dr. Nicos Makris who has been named a Fellow of the American Society of Civil Engineers! Dr. Makris is the Addy Family Centennial Professor in Civil Engineering at Lyle. Frosty: A micro-fabricated optical seismometer to measure minute forces in a mighty environment August 17, 2021 A NASA-sponsored team at Michigan Aerospace Corporation and SMU is developing a microfabricated all-optical seismometer called Frosty that can gather data in the harsh environments encountered on icy worlds such as Europa. Hurst-Euless-Bedford (HEB) Independent School District (ISD) and Southern Methodist University’s (SMU) Mars 2021 Mission on June 18, 2021 The culmination landing will begin at noon on June 18 at L. D. Bell High School Auditorium June 15, 2021 HEB ISD and SMU are partnering to host the Mars 2021 Mission this summer, with the culmination landing beginning at noon on June 18. Janille Smith-Colin awarded National Academies 2021 Early-Career Research Fellowship June 03, 2021 Dr. Janille Smith-Colin, assistant professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, has been named one of the seven recipients of the 2021 Early-Career Research Fellowships by the Gulf Research Program (GRP) of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. Richard Duschl will join the National Academy of Education March 23, 2021 Richard A. Duschl, a leader in SMU’s Lyle School of Engineering known for his continuing contributions to science education through research, has been elected a member of the National Academy of Education (NAEd). A Responder's Critical Path January 26, 2021 CEE researchers are modifying existing navigation algorithm systems used in apps such as Google Maps and Waze to meet the specialized routing needs of first responders. 'Lab on a Chip' test has potential to detect COVID-19 immune response faster than current antibody testing January 12, 2021 Researchers estimate the “Lab on a Chip” test could detect immune responses to coronavirus in two to three minutes, with just a drop of blood. News Archives 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Lyle Now Magazine Download Presentations Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus