Skip to main content Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Give Map Directory bConnected News Toggle navigation Map Directory bConnected News About From a group of academic pioneers in 1868 to the Free Speech Movement in 1964, Berkeley is a place where the brightest minds from across the globe come together to explore, ask questions and improve the world. Overview By the numbers History & discoveries Traditions Experience Berkeley Visit Leadership Admissions Want to change the world? At Berkeley we’re doing just that. When you join the Golden Bear community, you’re part of an institution that shifts the global conversation every single day. Overview Undergraduate Graduate Financial aid Tuition UC Berkeley Extension Summer sessions Study abroad Academics Berkeley is home to some of the world's greatest minds leading more than 130 academic departments and 80 interdisciplinary research units and addressing the world’s most pertinent challenges. Overview Schools & colleges Departments & programs Class schedule & courses Advising & tutoring Faculty profiles Academic calendar Research From expeditions to Egypt in the late 1800s to stem cell research and artificial intelligence today, Berkeley has been at the forefront of research throughout its history. Here students can work side-by-side with Nobel Laureates, Fields medal winners, Fulbright Scholars and MacArthur fellows. Overview Research programs Libraries Publications Museums & collections Undergraduate research Campus Life Life at Berkeley blends research and reflection, the scientific with the artistic, and the scholarly with the athletic. Our students come from different places and backgrounds, but together they create a diverse and kinetic community that seeks to create a better world. Overview Events & attractions Recreational Sports Cal Athletics Housing & dining Student organizations Health & safety Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Give Traditions of Berkeley Berkeley's long and proud history has given rise to many traditions, rallies and rituals. Learn about the experiences that become a part of every Golden Bear's time at Cal. Blue and Gold The campus colors of blue and gold were chosen in 1873 - blue for the California sky and ocean and for the Yale graduates who helped establish the university, gold for the "Golden State." The women of the classes suggested using both colors. A cappella singers "Fight for California" A cappella singers "Fight for California" (Play Video) Press ESC to close video dialog × A cappella singers "Fight for California" Close To share this video via email, copy and paste the message and URL below into your favorite email client and send. Check out this video I saw on http://www.berkeley.edu: A cappella singers "Fight for California" Close Founders Rock Trustees of the College of California stood on the north side of the campus near the corner of Hearst Avenue and Gayley Road on April 16, 1860, and dedicated the property as the future campus. A memorial tablet was placed on the stone in 1896. The Big "C" The Big "C" in the hills above campus was built in 1905 by the 1907 and 1908 classes. Sophomores were responsible for keeping the C clean and painted gold. On the night before a Stanford game or coast championship, the C was guarded through the night. Card stunts At the Big Game of 1914, colored cards supplied to Cal fans were held up in the rooting section according to direction to make a pattern. Over time card stunts became more elaborate, including the "Cal script," in which a huge "Cal" appeared to be written. Cal band performs for the Free Speech Movement anniversary Cal band performs for the Free Speech Movement anniversary (Play Video) Press ESC to close video dialog × Cal band performs for the Free Speech Movement anniversary Close To share this video via email, copy and paste the message and URL below into your favorite email client and send. Check out this video I saw on http://www.berkeley.edu: Cal band performs for the Free Speech Movement anniversary Close Golden Bears In 1895 a 12-man track team became the first Cal team to compete outside the state. They carried banners with the state’s emblem, a grizzly bear, in gold. The athletes won several meets, and the Golden Bear became the mythical guardian of the university. Oski Beloved mascot Oski was named for a cheer that began, "Oski wow wow! Whiskey wee wee!" Originally, real bear cubs served as mascots, but their growth posed obvious problems. Oski as we know him debuted at a 1941 freshman rally. Flashback: The Play (1982) Flashback: The Play (1982) (Play Video) Press ESC to close video dialog × Flashback: The Play (1982) Close To share this video via email, copy and paste the message and URL below into your favorite email client and send. Check out this video I saw on http://www.berkeley.edu: Flashback: The Play (1982) Close RRR week In 1961 the students requested that the week before final exams become “Dead Week,” which we now refer to as Reading, Review and Recitation week. Quizzes, projects and activities are not scheduled to allow time to study and prepare for exams. Wheeler Oak The tree in front of the Wheeler Hall steps was a favorite meeting place for students between 1917 and 1934, when the oak had to be removed because of its age. The tree was so missed that another oak, and a bronze plaque, was planted in its place. Big Game tree chopping rally Big Game tree chopping rally (Play Video) Press ESC to close video dialog × Big Game tree chopping rally Close To share this video via email, copy and paste the message and URL below into your favorite email client and send. Check out this video I saw on http://www.berkeley.edu: Big Game tree chopping rally Close Ludwig's Fountain Soon after the Student Union complex opened in 1960, the nearby fountain became the favorite spot of a German short-haired pointer named Ludwig. Ludwig spent every day in the fountain, and in 1961 it was named in his honor. Victory Cannon The Victory Cannon was donated by the class of 1964 in time for the 1963 football season. The gun appeared at all home games and was fired at the Big Game whenever the football team scored a touchdown or safety, kicked a field goal or won a game. Oski, the Cal mascot Oski, the Cal mascot (Play Video) Press ESC to close video dialog × Oski, the Cal mascot Close To share this video via email, copy and paste the message and URL below into your favorite email client and send. Check out this video I saw on http://www.berkeley.edu: Oski, the Cal mascot Close Sophomore Lawn Sophomore Lawn is the grass between California Hall and the Valley Life Sciences Building. Sophomore men would gather on the lawn to haze freshmen, who retaliated by burning their class numerals in the lawn at night. These days it’s a nice napping place. 4.0 ball The stone ball in front of the Campanile is more than a century old, but this tradition is much newer. Just a few years ago, students began referring to the sphere as the "4.0 ball." Rubbing it before taking an exam is considered good luck. Spirit songs From sporting events to graduation, and every kind of event in-between, you'll hear one of Cal's spirit songs being sung. Sing it loud you Bears! Cal Rally Committee Cal Rally Committee (Play Video) Press ESC to close video dialog × Cal Rally Committee Close To share this video via email, copy and paste the message and URL below into your favorite email client and send. Check out this video I saw on http://www.berkeley.edu: Cal Rally Committee Close Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Medium Visit Jobs News Blog Events Libraries Cal Athletics Equity, Inclusion & Diversity Accreditation Light the Way HEERF Report Nondiscrimination Websites A-Z Directory Map Contact us Privacy Accessibility Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved