Skip to Navigation Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. Events Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give About About About Overview General Info Facts & Figures Rankings Leadership History Mission & Values Mission & Values Strategic Plan Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Impact Contributions & Discoveries Global Engagement Recognition Awards & Honors Athletic Championships & Medals Notable Alumni UCLA Ranked No. 1 Public University UCLA tops all public universities in the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Admission Admission Admission Overview Undergraduate Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Tours Graduate Graduate Admission Graduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Funding Graduate Tours Additional Information International Applicants Extension Program Summer Sessions Academics Academics Academics Overview Explore Degree Programs & Majors College & Professional Schools Education Undergraduate Education Graduate & Professional Education Extension Courses & Certificates Summer Sessions Study Abroad Continuing Education Support Career Preparation Academic Advising First Generation New Student Programs Honors & Advanced Study Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Course Schedule Course Catalogue Research Research Research Campus Resources Research Across Campus Technology & Innovation Investments & Partnerships Libraries Student Research Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Housing Residential Life Dining Health & Wellness Sustainability Student Life Clubs & Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Performance Volunteering & Service Directory Academic Calendar Maps & Directions Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give Open Search Home Learn More About Los Angeles’ Top-Ranked University | UCLA Learn More About UCLA Awards and Honors Recipients | UCLA Awards & Honors Among our students, faculty and alumni you will find some of the most recognized and decorated individuals in almost every field and arena. We are hundreds of recipients of the Guggenheim, Sloan and other leading fellowship grants and awards. We are winners of the Fields Medal and the A.M. Turing Award. We are Bruins. 15 Nobel Laureates 15 MacArthur Fellows 11 National Medical of Science Winners 3 Pulitzer Prize Winners, faculty UCLA is also is the alma mater of Oscar, Emmy, Tony and Golden Globes winners like Francis Ford Coppola, Alexander Payne, John Williams, Tim Robbins and more than 20 others. This winning legacy inspires current and future Bruins to leave their own mark on the world. Awards and honors exist to recognize exceptional academic performance and extracurricular activity. They are conferred at all levels of the university system. UCLA scholars thrive in an environment of intellectual freedom and creativity. For their bold explorations and inspired collaborations, the faculty, alumni, postdocs and trustees have received top honors nationwide and internationally. Find out more about how Bruins are achieving excellence in their fields: Faculty Honors Alumni & Student Honors Sign up for news, stories, and events from UCLA Strategic Communications Email First Name Last Name Zip Code Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration. You may unsubscribe at any time. Zip code is used to improve the content we share. Refer to our Terms of Use for more information on how we store and protect your data. Los Angeles 90095(310) 825-4321 Contact Directory Academic Calendar Careers Contact Us Media & Journalists Campus Campus Map Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Community Alumni Parents & Families Faculty Staff Emeriti & Retirees Venue & Events Conference Center & Hotel Film Production Event Planning Related Sites Athletics Extension Health Store Giving Centennial The Arts Arts Gateway Hammer Museum Fowler Museum Center for the Art of Performance Facebook Instagram Linked Twitter Youtube TikTok Snapchat © 2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Report Misconduct Privacy & Terms of Use Cookie Policy We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised Privacy Policy. I Accept