Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE PHARMACOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 PHCOL 401 General Pharmacology I (2-4, max. 4) Wang Principles governing drug-receptor interactions, dose-response relationships, desensitization, and tolerance. Drug toxicity, allergy, mutagenesis, and carcinogensis. Pharmocogenomics and DNA/RNA therapies. General pharmacology of drugs acting on the endocrine and vascular systems. For pharmacy students and other undergraduates. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 401 PHCOL 402 General Pharmacology II (3/4) General pharmacology of drugs acting on the autonomic, cardiovascular, and central nervous systems. For Pharmacy students and other undergraduates. Prerequisite: PHCOL 401. Instructors: Storm Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 402 PHCOL 434 General Pharmacology (2) Grubbs Lectures concerning the action of drugs on physiological and pathological processes with special emphasis on agents of special importance in the practice of dentistry. For dental students. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 434 PHCOL 435 General Pharmacology (2) Grubbs Lectures concerning the action of drugs on physiological and pathological processes with special emphasis on agents of special importance in the practice of dentistry. For dental students. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 435 PHCOL 498 Undergraduate Thesis (*, max. 35) Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 498 PHCOL 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 35) Participation in departmental research projects. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 499 PHCOL 501 Drug Discovery and Emerging Therapeutics (2) Ning Zheng Consideration of the general principles and current approaches involved in modern drug discovery and development, with an emphasis on basic concepts in drug action, delivery, and metabolism. Discussion of novel drug discovery techniques and emerging non-standard therapeutics. Prerequisite: organic chemistry, biochemistry, and introductory anatomy and physiology. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 501 PHCOL 502 Signal Transduction from the Cell Membrane to the Nucleus (2) John D. Scott, Shao-En Ong, Rich Gardner Intracellular signaling pathways leading from cell membrane receptors to nucleus. Pathways activated by seven transmembrane receptors and G-proteins, insulin/PI3 kinase, nitric oxide and WNTs and mechanisms of signal termination. Cytokine/Jak/Stat signaling and role of subcellular localization in signal transduction. Prerequisite: basic knowledge of biochemistry. Offered: jointly with CONJ 532; A. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 502 PHCOL 503 Autonomic/Cardiovascular Pharmacology (2) Neil M Nathanson Consideration of the pharmacology of the cardiovascular and autonomic nervous systems. Emphasizes the mechanisms of neurotransmitter, hormone, drug action at autonomic synapses, and the molecular basis for physiology and pathophysiology of the cardiovascular system. Lectures, group discussion, and analysis of recent research. Prerequisite: organic chemistry, biochemistry, and introductory anatomy and physiology. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 503 PHCOL 504 Neuropharmacology (2) Sandra Bajjalieh Consideration of the neurobiological basis of drug action on the central nervous system, including mechanism of action and therapeutic use in psychiatric disorders; neurodegeneration/neuroinflammation; control of neuronal excitability and pain; and drug abuse and addiction. Lecture, group discussion, and analysis of recent research. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 504 PHCOL 505 Endocrine Pharmacology (2) Stanley McKnight Consideration of the pharmacology of endocrine systems including the hypothalamic/pituitary regulatory peptides, glycoprotein hormones/growth factors, peptide and steroid hormones. Lecture, group discussion, and analysis of recent research. Prerequisite: organic chemistry, biochemistry, and introductory anatomy and physiology. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 505 PHCOL 506 Immunopharmacology and Chemotherapeutics (2) Stanley McKnight Basic principles of immunology as applied to immunopharmacology. Current overview of cancer chemotherapy and antimicrobial chemotherapy. Lectures, group discussions, student presentations, and analysis of recent research. Prerequisite: coursework in biochemistry and physiology. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 506 PHCOL 507 Pharmacology Seminar (1, max. 30) Presentation of comprehensive reports on recent medical and scientific literature in fields of current importance. Research progress reports, and reports on results of completed research. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 507 PHCOL 514 Current Topics in Pharmacology (1, max. 30) Current research related to the mechanisms of drug action presented in a seminar format. Presentations include relevant background material as well as detailed experimental results taken from current research articles. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Gardner Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 514 PHCOL 515 General Pharmacology Laboratory (*, max. 9) Laboratory course for professional and graduate students who wish to do independent laboratory research under the direction of a specific faculty member. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 515 PHCOL 519 Introduction to Laboratory Research in Pharmacology (4, max. 20) Storm On a rotation basis students carry out individual research projects in the laboratories of different faculty members. At the end of each quarter students make formal presentations of their work. For first-year graduate students in pharmacology. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 519 PHCOL 527 Advanced Drug Metabolism (2) Allan Edward Rettie, Rheem A. Totah Considerations of the enzymology and mechanisms of biotransformation and disposition of drugs and foreign compounds. Includes chemical and biochemical reaction mechanisms, enzyme induction mechanisms, kinetics of inhibition and activation, inter-individual differences in metabolism and bioactivation and toxicity. Prerequisite: MEDCH 529, PCEUT 502, or permission of instructor; recommended: knowledge of chemical and biochemical mechanisms; knowledge of enzyme kinetics; and knowledge of chemical and cellular toxicity. Offered: jointly with MEDCH 527; W. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 527 PHCOL 529 Ion Channel Pharmacology (2) Current topics in ion channel structure, function, genetics, and pharmacology, including consideration of role in electrical signaling in cell membranes and information transfer and processing in nervous system, inherited diseases of ion channels, and sites and mechanisms of action of drugs and toxins. Prerequisite: CONJ 532 and CONJ 536 or permission of instructor. Instructors: Catterall, Tempel Offered: A, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 529 PHCOL 530 Neuronal Signaling Pathways (2) Advanced consideration of the molecular events between drug or hormone binding to receptors and the resulting responses. Emphasizes roles played by signal transduction pathways in regulation of synaptic plasticity, memory formation, neuronal apoptosis, and developmental neurobiology. Prerequisite: UCONJ 532 or permission of instructor. Instructors: Beavo, Hague, Storm, Xia Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 530 PHCOL 531 Genetic Analysis of Signaling Systems (3) Rich Gardner, Stanley McKnight Introduction to classic model organisms including plants, yeast, slime mold, flies, worms, fish, mice, and humans and a discussion of their use in current signal transduction research. A major focus will also be on developing a research grant proposal culminating in a mock study section in which student proposals are evaluated by their peers. Prerequisite: permission of instructor; recommended: molecular and cellular biology; and genetics. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 531 PHCOL 534 Molecular Basis of Addictive Drug Action (2) Advanced consideration and discussion of current literature addressing the basis of opiate, psychostimulant, and cannabinoid effects on signal transduction events, electrical activity of neurons, and drip-motivated behaviors in animal models of human drug abuse. Prerequisite: PHCOL 512 or permission of instructor. Instructors: Chavkin, Phillips, Stella Offered: A, even years. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 534 PHCOL 535 Transcriptional Control in Human Disease (3) Advanced consideration and discussion of the mechanisms regulating transcription/gene expression and of aberrant transcription factors which disrupt this process found in cancer and other human diseases. Prerequisite: PHCOL 512 or permission of instructor. Instructors: Bomsztyk, Wang Offered: Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 535 PHCOL 550 An Overview of Faculty Research (1) Reviews research topics currently being studied in pharmacology. Student reads articles published on each topic. Prerequisite: first-year student standing in pharmacology. Instructors: Wang Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 550 PHCOL 560 Regulation of Cell Function by Cyclic Nucleotide Phosphodiesterases (1) Discussion of research strategies, methodologies, and literature relating to regulation of cyclic nucleotide levels in the cell. Emphasis on practical problem solving, data analysis, and presentation of methods important to understanding published data and designing new experiments in this area of research. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Beavo Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 560 PHCOL 561 Molecular Properties of Ion Channels (1) Discussion of research strategies, methodologies, and literature concerning the structure, function, and regulation of sodium and calcium channels and the mechanism of action of drugs on them. Emphasis on experimental problem solving, data analysis, and presentation. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Catterall Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 561 PHCOL 562 Molecular Basis for Motivated Behavior (1) Discussion of research strategies and methodologies involved in the regulation of motivated behavior by understanding signal transduction and synaptic physiology. Emphasis on practical problem solving, data analysis, and presentation methods important to modern scientific work. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Chavkin Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 562 PHCOL 563 Signal Transduction Mechanisms in Neuroplasticity and Neuron Growth (1) Discussion of research strategies, methodologies, and literature relating to signal transduction mechanisms important for neuroplasticity and regulation of neuron growth in the central nervous system. Emphasis on practical problem solving, data analysis, and presentation methods important to modern scientific work. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Storm Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 563 PHCOL 564 Cellular Regulation by Protein Kinases (1) Analysis of research problems, techniques, and emerging concepts in the study of the function of protein kinases. Emphasis on critical evaluation of research and development of presentation skills. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: McKnight Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 564 PHCOL 565 Intercellular Signaling in Development (1) Molecular genetic approaches to dissecting the roles and mechanisms of intracellular signaling during development. Emphasis on vertebrate genes related to Drosophilia segment polarity genes. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Moon Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 565 PHCOL 566 Molecular Pharmacology of Neurotransmitter and Neurokine Receptors (1) Discussion of research strategies and methodologies in the areas of molecular neurobiology and signal transduction of muscarinic receptors, G-proteins, and neurokine receptors. Emphasis on practical problem solving, data analysis, and presentation methods important to modern scientific work. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Nathanson Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 566 PHCOL 569 Molecular Genetics of Potassium Channel Function (1) Discussion of research strategies, methodologies, and literature concerning the structure, function, and regulation of potassium channel genes and their role in behavior as studied in mutant mice. Emphasis on experimental problem solving, data analysis, and presentation. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Tempel Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 569 PHCOL 571 Molecular Mechanisms of Neurosecretion (1) Discussion of research strategies, methodologies, and literature relating to regulation of cyclic nucleotide levels in the cell. Emphasis on experimental problem solving, data analysis, and presentation. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Bajjalieh Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 571 PHCOL 572 Transcriptional Regulation of Growth Control Genes (1) Discussion of research strategies, methodologies, and literature relating to proliferative growth control, cellular differentiation, and gene expression. Emphasis on practical problem solving, data analysis, and presentation. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Wang Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 572 PHCOL 573 Signaling Systems Linked to Neuroinflammation (1) Discussion of research strategies, methodologies, and literature related to neuroinflammation, microglial cell activation, and the cannabinoid signaling pathway. Emphasis on solving practical problem, data analysis, and presentation. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Stella Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 573 PHCOL 575 Structural Biology of Ubiquitination (1) Discussion of research strategies, methodologies and literature concerning the structure, function, and regulation of ubiquitin-protein ligases and the mechanism underlying ubiquitination and ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis. Emphasis on experimental problem solving, data analysis, and presentation. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Zheng Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 575 PHCOL 576 Pharmacological, Molecular, and Functional Characterization of G-protein Coupled Receptors (1) Discusses research strategies, methodologies, and literature relating to the pharmacological characterization, molecular biology, and functional coupling of GPCRs. Emphasizes practical problem solving, data analysis, and presentation. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Hague Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 576 PHCOL 577 Regulatory Roles of Ubiquitin in the Nucleus (1) Focuses on the design and implementation of research aimed at understanding the nuclear functions of the small protein modifier ubiquitin. Strongly emphasizes the understanding of current literature, experimental design and troubleshooting, data analysis, and presentation of experimental results. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Gardner Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 577 PHCOL 578 A-Kinase Anchoring Proteins in Cell Signaling Research (1) Scott Focuses on the design and implantation of research A-Kinase anchoring proteins in cell signaling. Emphasizes understanding experimental design and troubleshooting, data analysis, and presentation of experimental results. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 578 PHCOL 579 Genetic Regulation of Emotional Behavior (1) Zweifel Provides background in the materials and methods used in the study of the genetic basis of learning and memory and neural circuit function achieved through discussion of current literature, data acquisition and analysis, and experimental design. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 579 PHCOL 580 Proteomics for Cellular Systems (1) Ong Discusses and reviews literature for proteomics and other genome-wide approaches to study cellular systems. Trains students to integrate knowledge form existing literature with ongoing laboratory research to enhance data analysis and experimental design. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 580 PHCOL 581 Mitochondrial Signaling and Metabolism (1, max. 35) Y. Sancak Trains graduate students on mitochondrial biology, signaling and metabolism by literature review and data analysis. Focuses on effective experimental design, scientific presentation and writing. Introduces basic and advanced laboratory techniques commonly used in mitochondrial biology. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 581 PHCOL 582 Nuclear Architecture and the Noncoding Transcriptome (1, max. 35) D. Shechner Examines the biogenesis, regulation, and functional impact of mammalian nuclear architecture during differentiation and disease, emphasizing the interplay between chromatin biology and noncoding RNAs. Trains graduate students in rigorous approaches to experimental design and data analysis, novel technology design and implementation, effective scientific communication and writing, and comprehensive command of the literature. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 582 PHCOL 583 Kinase Signaling in Neurodevelopment and Disease (1, max. 35) Explores fundamental concepts in kinase mediated signaling pathways and their regulation of neuronal structure and function during development and disease. Current genetic and proteomic approaches to investigate kinase pathways will be examined. Principles of experimental design, data interpretation and analysis will be discussed as graduate students present key findings of their individual research projects. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 583 PHCOL 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Pharmacology graduate students only. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 600 PHCOL 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Pharmacology graduate students only. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 700 PHCOL 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Pharmacology graduate students only. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHCOL 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022