Skip to main content Restrict my search to Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Graduate College of Social Work About Welcome Message About Our Dean Mission & Vision Strategic Plan 2017-2021 Faculty Directory Administrative Offices Contact GCSW Academics MSW Program Field Education PhD Program Dual Degree Programs Child Welfare Education Project Nonprofit Leadership Alliance Current Students MSW Course Schedules PhD Course Schedules Student Organizations International Education Scholarships and Financial Support MSW Student Standards & Policies Forms & Procedures Student Resources Graduation Guide Prospective Students Apply Now MSW Admissions PhD Admissions Scholarships and Financial Support Connect with Us Research Child and Family Center for Innovative Research Maternal Health Equity Research and Training Center MH-RITES Research Center SUSTAIN Wellbeing COMPASS Coordinating Center upEND Movement H.E.A.R. Lab News & Events GCSW in the News Events GCSW Stories Community Events Eyes on Abolition ONWARD I The Next 50 Years Racial Justice Symposium GCSW Mural Renovation Project GCSW E-News Photo Galleries Video Gallery Noteworthy Office of Communications Giving Current Funding Opportunities Donor Impact Alumni & Career Services Alumni Relations Professional Continuing Education Career Services GCSW Alumni Scholarships Student/Alumni Mentorship Program Ph.D. Alumni Directory UH Home Graduate College of Social Work Alumni & Career Services Career Services Alumni & Career Services Alumni Relations Professional Continuing Education Career Services Job Board International Job Resources Clinical Supervisors Success Stories Job Market Survey Fellowships GCSW Alumni Scholarships Student/Alumni Mentorship Program Ph.D. Alumni Directory Career Services Career Services Career Services, along with your degree from the University of Houston Graduate College of Social Work, will unlock lifelong social work job opportunities that will not only enrich your professional life but help you to make the University of Houston Graduate College of Social Work's vision "to achieve social, racial, economic, and political justice" a reality. Career Services helps you to rethink the employment search from "looking for a job" to "selling your knowledge, experience, skills, and personal attributes" in a manner that helps an employer understand that you are the best person for the job. Individual attention, lunchtime speakers, classes, and seminars are all a part of what Career Services offers students and alumni. Center for Career and Professional Development Individual Career Counseling - Knowing what areas of social work that best suit your talents is a vital component toward accomplishing your goal of achieving a happy, fulfilling and rewarding career in social work. Career Services leads you to focus on those attributes and gifts you can share in order to achieve that goal. Writing the Winning Resume - Creating the results-oriented resume as an effective advertisement for yourself is a skill that all students and alumni can achieve. Career Services provides one-on-one consultation on resume writing and will give you tips and resume writing skills to last throughout your professional career. Selling Yourself to an Employer - Career Services will teach you a simple and proven technique to effectively introduce yourself to an employer that will leave the employer with a positive, lasting impression of how you can assist in achieving the employer's goals. Networking Skills - Letting employers know that you are available and what you can do for them is a skill that is instrumental in achieving the job you really want. Career Services professionals will teach you effective networking tools like using your own hidden network and effective social media, telephone, and personal introductions to unlock limitless job opportunities. Completing the Successful Application - Overcoming even the most challenging computerized screening process becomes less daunting when Career Services assists you in learning how to complete a successful application. Mastering the Winning Interview - While even the best trained, most highly seasoned professionals can impress an employer on paper or through social media, most individuals are vulnerable to losing that job opportunity during the interview process. Here you can learn important interview skills like answering the difficult interview questions, explaining a gap in employment, conducting successful salary negotiations, and even writing an impressive thank you email or note to employers. Tips on how to conduct a successful Virtual Interview are offered in workshop format to pave the way for job offers during Covid times. Job Leads - Students and alumni may take advantage of job postings in the Career Center, online, or on the job board located on the second floor of the Social Work building. Career Services works hard to maintain a strong and impressive list of employers to support our students and alumni. In addition, currently or recently employed students and alumni are encouraged to share job leads that appear at their places of employment, thus creating a highly effective network of prospective jobs to be shared. Ongoing Career Development and Job Search Support - Perquisites of being students or alumni of the University of Houston Graduate College of Social Work are the ongoing job search and career development support you may receive throughout your career. Students and alumni are always welcome to come by and take advantage of all services provided by Alumni, Career & Professional Development. Services to Employers Job Opportunity Postings - GCSW maintains an active role in the community of social workers and strongly encourages employers with positions pertinent to students and alumni of the College to post their jobs with us. Employers can post positions easily by completing our job form here and can email the completed form to mswjobs@central.uh.edu. These positions will be posted for 60 days or can be updated as needed. Employers are asked to notify us when positions have been filled. Screenings and Referrals - Employers rely on GCSW graduates to bring their expertise and excellent training into their agencies. Career Services works with employers and GCSW students and alumni to provide appropriate matches for positions in their companies. This process helps employers efficiently secure the most qualified applicants and assists students in efficiently achieving a good match for their skills. Resume Bank - The Graduate College of Social Work Center for Career and Professional Development maintains an active resume bank of students and alumni. This service streamlines the process of seeking well-qualified candidates from a ready pool of students and alumni. Related Links GCSW Self-Care Center Macro, Advocacy and Public Administration Career Board Career Handouts and Workshops Getting Your LMSW in TX Licensure in the State of Texas Code of Ethics 2022 The Real Deal - Alumni Mentor Discussions 2022 Spring Workshop Schedule Graduate Student Employment Form Sample Resume Packet Salary Negotiation Tips Professionalism in the Workplace Navigating A Job Search During Uncertain Times Navigating A Job Search During Uncertain Times Q&A Who's Hiring in Houston Right Now & Virtual Interview Tips (Video) Workshops will be held via Zoom Register at mswjobs@central.uh.edu and the Zoom link will be emailed to you prior to the workshop. Scheduled Zoom Workshops: Career Services Workshops Career Forms Job Placement Form Job Order Form Fellowships McLean OCD Institute SW Fellowship Contact Ann Liberman Director Alumni & Career Services Email: aliberman@uh.edu Room: 118 Social Work Building Phone: 713-743-8071 University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies