Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America Home About Events News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Site Navigation Home About History Staff Advisors Postdoctoral, Faculty, and Graduate Fellows Visiting Faculty Practitioner Fellows Message from the Director Location & Contact Information Annual Reports CSREA Q&A with Tricia Rose Events Past Events Co-sponsorship Requests Featured Events Around Campus Signature Series Underlying Conditions The Third Rail Series Writing for a Broken World What I Am Thinking About Now "First Works" Series Race at the Center of the Humanities New Book Talks STEM Conversation Series Dr. Jean Shim Yun Lecture Series Graduate Professionalization Workshop Series Critical Conversations Summer Reading Series News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Faculty Grants CSREA Faculty Grants Application deadline: Thursday, March 31st, 2022, for academic year 2022-23. CSREA Faculty Grants are designed to support the synergistic development of intellectual community and research on campus by funding and staffing campus-based events or supporting research focused working groups. We invite Brown University faculty, postdoctoral fellows, and graduate students with faculty sponsors to submit proposals that focus on issues of race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity in the United States and work that connects the U.S. to related transnational contexts. CSREA program grants will be supported by our space and staff based on scheduling and other considerations. See previous grant-sponsored events to get a sense of what developed out of recent years of research grant-making. eligibility We accept proposals from all Brown faculty and postdoctoral fellows interested in working on issues of race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity in the U.S. and work that connects the U.S. to related transnational contexts. Collaborative proposals are encouraged (e.g., faculty within and across departments or even across local/regional institutions, and Brown faculty/student collaborations). the grant Funds may be used to support speakers, lecture series, films, events, and symposia, as well as fund a clearly delineated working group for meetings, materials (books, etc.), visitors, and presentations. Funds may not be used to support research trips, stipends, or salaries. CSREA Faculty Grants must follow CSREA event guidelines and procedures. These grants are not simply funding sources to support events led by other groups, centers, or staff. Faculty Grant Events are events run and coordinated by CSREA staff, in conjunction with the faculty grantee. We do not allocate Faculty Grants for events that require substantial co-sponsorship funds to be realized nor do we provide co-sponsorship funds via this faculty grant program. Be advised that awarded grants may be approved/awarded to grantees for a smaller budget or an otherwise modified version of the proposed event. We cannot guarantee awarded funds to be available beyond the fiscal year for which they were awarded. Maximum Faculty Grant Award: $3,500. application process Applicants must complete the application form, using the spaces allotted to describe the project as requested. In addition to this form, applicants should attach a projected budget and timeline and indicate whether or not the project is being funded by other sources. The CSREA Faculty Advisory Board (FAB) will evaluate proposals. Other faculty members may be consulted at the discretion of the FAB. Grantees will be asked to provide a brief summary of their activities within one month of the end of their project. Deadline Applications for AY 2022-23 grants are due on Thursday, March 31st, 2022, by 5:00 p.m. EDT. Awardees will be notified in May 2022. Questions? Please contact CSREA Program Coordinator, Maggie Murphy. Application Form Apply for a CSREA Faculty Grant Co-Sponsorship Funds Request co-sponsorship funds for an event outside of the Faculty Grant program (please note that most co-sponsorships are within the $100-$500 range). Request co-sponsorship funds Special Consideration Events Faculty proposed events with projected budgets over $5,000, click below to submit the event for possible special consideration (very limited option). Submit for Special Consideration Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Stay Connected Subscribe to our newsletter Visit Our YouTube Channel The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) Brown University Box 2032 96 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5775 Fax: 401-863-5784 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top