Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Learn More Resources and Links A note about confidential resources: Information shared with confidential resources (including information about whether an individual has received services) will only be disclosed to the Title IX coordinator or any other person with the individual's express written permission, unless there is an imminent threat of serious harm to the individual or to others, or a legal obligation to reveal such information (e.g., if there is suspected abuse or neglect of a minor). Sexual Assault Resources Campus, Confidential Resources: Sexual Assault Response Line, 401-863-6000 Confidential crisis support and information is available for any Brown student dealing with sexual assault. The on-call counselor is also available to accompany a victim to the hospital. BWell SHARE Advocates, 401-863-2794, [email protected] The SHARE (Sexual Harm Acute Response & Empowerment) Advocates in BWell Health Promotion are confidential resources at Brown that can provide support to any student from any part of the University (undergraduate, graduate, and medical students) affected by issues or experiences related to: Sexual Assault, Sexual and/or Gender-based Harassment, Domestic/Dating Violence, Relational Abuse, or Stalking, that has taken place at any time in their lives. Confidential services include acute responses or ongoing empowerment-based support for a survivor or the friends of a survivor, including help filing a complaint (if that is the student's choice) and/or navigating resources at Brown and in the community.*This is a survivor-centered resource for people who have experienced sexual harm. Counseling and Psychological Services 401-863-3476 Clinicians provide confidential crisis support, follow-up appointments, and 24-hour on-call services for any Brown student dealing with sexual assault. Brown Emergency Medical Services (EMS) 401-863-4111 Emergency response available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. University Health Services 401-863-3953 Confidential medical care, testing and treatment. Emergency contraceptive pills and treatment for sexually transmitted infections are available. Chaplains Office 401-863-2344 The Chaplains are available for personal counseling and support. Call to make an appointment. Campus, NOT Confidential Resources: Office of Student Life/Dean-on-Call 401.863-3800 Provides a crisis response system which includes administrators-on-call. Title IX Office (401) 863-2026 Information and support resources for the Brown University community around issues of sexual misconduct and Title IX. Brown Department of Public Safety 401.863-4111 (emergency response) Emergency response available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. You may also direct any complaints to Public Safety's administrative number, 863-3322. Off-campus, Confidential Resources: Sexual Assault & Domestic Violence Hotline 1-800-494-8100 If you or someone you know needs help because of a sexual assault or an abusive relationship, call this hotline 24 hours a day. Counselor-advocates provide confidential support and are available to accompany victims of sexual assault to the hospital and police station. Ongoing counseling and support groups are available. (This hotline is specific to Rhode Island. Contact the National Sexual Assault Hotline at 1-800-656-HOPE if you need help in another state.) Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network (RAINN) 1-800-656-HOPE This is a national hotline for victims of sexual assault. The hotline offers free, confidential counseling and support 24 hours a day, from anywhere in the country. When a survivor calls the hotline, s/he is connected to the nearest local rape crisis center through a unique computer routing system that maintains the confidentiality of callers. Local Hospitals and Emergency Rooms (Off-campus, Confidential): Hasbro Children’s Hospital 593 Eddy Street, Providence 401.444-4000 Will care for patients under 18. Serves patients of all gender identities (male, female and trans-identified). Serves patients who may be intoxicated (alcohol and/or other drugs). Provides medical care, including STI and HIV prophylaxis and emergency contraception. Offers testing for drug-facilitated sexual assault up to 72 hours after an assault, even if you don’t want to have the evidence collection exam. (Be aware that some drugs may not be detectable after 12 hours.) Can provide the evidence collection exam up to 72 hours after an assault. Will offer a Day One Advocate if you prefer off-campus support. (For a confidential crisis counselor from Brown, you can contact the Sexual Assault Response Line at 401.863-6000.) Cost of treatment and evidence collection may be covered by Rhode Island’s Victim Compensation Fund. Be sure to tell the receptionist that you have been sexually assaulted and don’t want your insurance to be billed. Women and Infants Hospital 101 Dudley Street, Providence 401.274-1100 Serves female patients and all trans patients who are 14 or older. Does NOT serve patients who are incapacitated. Provides medical care, including STI and HIV prophylaxis and emergency contraception. Offers testing for drug-facilitated sexual assault. Can provide the evidence collection exam up to 96 hours (4 days) after an assault. Will offer a Day One Advocate if you prefer off-campus support. (For a confidential crisis counselor from Brown, you can contact the Sexual Assault Response Line at 401.863-6000.) Cost of treatment, evidence collection AND the ER visit may be covered by Rhode Island’s Victim Compensation Fund. Be sure to tell the receptionist that you have been sexually assaulted and don’t want your insurance to be billed. Rhode Island Hospital 593 Eddy Street, Providence 401.444-5411 Rhode Island Hospital is a Level One Trauma Center. This is the best hospital for care when someone has life-threatening physical injuries in addition to being sexually assaulted. Sexual Assault Links The Office of Student Life, Student Handbook This is an online version of the Student Handbook that links to the section on policies and regulations. Brown's definition of sexual misconduct is outlined here as well as the steps taken when an assault occurs. Day One: The Sexual Assault and Trauma Resource Center Day One is the RI resource for victims of sexual assault and their families. The site provides information on a range of topics, including sexual assault, child sexual abuse, internet safety and sex offender management. Day One offers individual and group counseling for survivors of sexual abuse, child sexual abuse and for their families. Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network (RAINN) This web site offers information and statistics on sexual assault and can locate a local rape crisis center in your area. The Rape Treatment Center This web site offers information on the impact of rape, date rape drugs, facts and statistics, as well as a comprehensive list of links to other resources. For Male Survivors of Sexual Assault This page is from the Counseling and Mental Health Center at the University of Texas at Austin and offers another source of information for male survivors of sexual assault. Gay Men's Domestic Violence Project The Gay Men's Domestic Violence Project is a grassroots, non-profit organization providing community education and direct services for clients. GMDVP offers shelter, guidance, and resources to allow gay, bisexual, and transgender men in crisis to leave violent situations and relationships. Anti-Violence Project This project serves lesbian, gay, transgender, bisexual and HIV-positive victims of violence, and others affected by violence, by providing free and confidential services enabling them to regain their sense of control, identify and evaluate their options, and assert their rights. The Network/La Red 617-423-SAFE (Hotline in English and Spanish) This program offers free services in English and Spanish for lesbians, bisexual women and transgender people who are victims of battering. These services include a hotline, emergency shelter and advocacy programs. Located in Boston, Massachusetts. 1 in 6 For Men A website with resources for men who have had unwanted or abusive sexual experiences in their childhood, including 24-hour online support, educational material covering the impact of sexual abuse, and stories of healing from male survivors. HEART Women and Girls HEART Women & Girls seeks to promote the reproductive health and mental well-being of Muslim communities. HEART has developed culturally sensitive health information and programming, and the site has several articles on sexual health and sexual violence written for Muslim communities. Sexual Harassment Resources Campus, Confidential Resources: Counseling and Psychological Services 401.863-3476 Clinicians provide confidential crisis support, follow-up appointments, and 24-hour on-call services for any Brown student dealing with sexual harassment. BWell SHARE Advocates, 401-863-2794, [email protected] The SHARE (Sexual Harm Acute Response & Empowerment) Advocates in BWell Health Promotion are confidential resources at Brown that can provide support to any student from any part of the University (undergraduate, graduate, and medical students) affected by issues or experiences related to: Sexual Assault, Sexual and/or Gender-based Harassment, Domestic/Dating Violence, Relational Abuse, or Stalking, that has taken place at any time in their lives. Confidential services include acute responses or ongoing empowerment-based support for a survivor or the friends of a survivor, including help filing a complaint (if that is the student's choice) and/or navigating resources at Brown and in the community. Chaplains Office 401.863-2344 The Chaplains are available for personal counseling and support. Call to make an appointment. Campus, NOT Confidential Resources Title IX Office (401) 863-2026 Information and support resources for the Brown University community around issues of sexual misconduct and Title IX. Sexual Harassment Information Liaisons If you would like assistance or wish to report sexually harassing behavior by faculty, staff, or students, use this link to get current contact information. Brown University Department of Public Safety 401.863-3322 You may also direct any complaints to the Department of Public Safety. Off Campus Resources RI Commission for Human Rights 401.222-2661 Investigates charges of sexual harassment and other forms of discrimination. Office of Civil Rights, Department of Education - Boston Office (617)223-9662 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission - Boston Office (617)565-3200 Sexual Harassment Links Office of Institutional Diversity This web page provides extensive information on the definition of sexual harassment, available resources at Brown and the options for informal resolutions and disciplinary options. Explains confidentiality and the limits of confidentiality when sexual harassment is reported. Sexual Harassment Internet Resources A list of several different links provided by the Feminist Majority Foundation. US Department of Education This website lists several publications on sexual harassment and the educational setting. US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission This website contains fact sheets and recent court decisions on sexual harassment. Dating Violence Resources Campus, Confidential Resources: Counseling and Psychological Services 401.863-3476 Clinicians provide confidential crisis support, follow-up appointments, and 24-hour on-call services for any Brown student dealing with violence in a relationship. The on-call counselor is also available to accompany a victim to the hospital. BWell SHARE Advocates, 401-863-2794, [email protected] The SHARE (Sexual Harm Acute Response & Empowerment) Advocates in BWell Health Promotion are confidential resources at Brown that can provide support to any student from any part of the University (undergraduate, graduate, and medical students) affected by issues or experiences related to: Sexual Assault, Sexual and/or Gender-based Harassment, Domestic/Dating Violence, Relational Abuse, or Stalking, that has taken place at any time in their lives. Confidential services include acute responses or ongoing empowerment-based support for a survivor or the friends of a survivor, including help filing a complaint (if that is the student's choice) and/or navigating resources at Brown and in the community. Chaplains Office 401.863-2344 The Chaplains are available for personal counseling and support. Call to make an appointment. Brown Emergency Medical Services (EMS) 401.863-4111 Emergency response available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Campus, NOT Confidential Resources: Brown Department of Public Safety 401.863-4111 (emergency response) Emergency response available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. You may also direct any complaints to Public Safety's administrative number, 863-3322. Office of Student Life/Administrator-on-Call 401.863-3800 Provides a crisis response system which includes administrators-on-call. Title IX Office (401) 863-2026 Information and support resources for the Brown University community around issues of sexual misconduct and Title IX. Off-campus, Confidential Resources: Sexual Assault & Domestic Violence Hotline 1-800-494-8100 If you or someone you know needs help because of a sexual assault or an abusive relationship, call this hotline 24 hours a day. Counselor-advocates provide confidential support and are available to accompany victims of sexual assault to the hospital and police station. Ongoing counseling and support groups are available. (This hotline is specific to Rhode Island. Contact the National Sexual Assault Hotline at 1-800-656-HOPE if you need help in another state.) National Domestic Violence Hotline 1-800-799-SAFE (7233) TTY: 1-800-787-3224 The National Domestic Violence Hotline provides anonymous crisis intervention, information about domestic violence and referrals to local services. The hotline advocates can answer calls in English and Spanish and have access to translators in 139 languages. RI Gay & Lesbian Helpline 401.751-3322 Available Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays from 7pm to 10 pm. The Gay Men's Domestic Violence Project 1-800-832-1901 This grassroots, nonprofit organization provides community education and direct services for clients. GMDVP offers shelter, guidance and resources to allow gay, bisexual and transgender men in crisis to leave violent situations and relationships. Located in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The Network/La Red 617-423-SAFE (Hotline in English and Spanish) This program offers free services in English and Spanish for lesbians, bisexual women and transgender people who are victims of battering. These services include a hotline, emergency shelter and advocacy programs. Located in Boston, Massachusetts. Dating Violence Links Rhode Island Coalition Against Domestic Violence This site has information on local domestic violence agencies, creating a safety plan, the dynamics of dating violence and local events and media campaigns. Gay Men's Domestic Violence Project This grassroots, nonprofit organization provides community education and direct services for clients. GMDVP offers shelter, guidance and resources to allow gay, bisexual and transgender men in crisis to leave violent situations and relationships. Located in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The Network/La Red 617-423-SAFE (Hotline in English and Spanish) This program offers free services in English and Spanish for lesbians, bisexual women and transgender people who are victims of battering. These services include a hotline, emergency shelter and advocacy programs. Located in Boston, Massachusetts. Institute on Domestic Violence in the African American Community The Institute provides an interdisciplinary forum for research and dialogue on family violence in the African American community. The site includes a newsletter, bibliography, events and related links. Futures Without Violence Futures Without Violence is a national nonprofit organization that advocates for laws to help battered women, educates judges and provides training and support to employers and health care providers. The Get the Facts section has several different topics, including teen dating violence, immigration issues, the military and domestic violence and emerging issues. Centro de Justicia Para Mujeres/Women's Justice Center This bilingual website has a section called Help for Victims with advice on how to help a friend, how to leave an abusive relationship and information for immigrant women. US Department of Justice The Department of Justice publishes numerous research studies on domestic violence and sexual assault. This site also provides resources for victims of different kinds of crime, information on stalking and cyberstalking and resources for parents. Stalking Resources Campus, Confidential Resources: Counseling and Psychological Services 401.863-3476 Clinicians provide confidential crisis support, follow-up appointments, and 24-hour on-call services for any Brown student dealing with stalking. Brown Emergency Medical Services (EMS) 401.863-4111 Emergency response available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Chaplains Office 401.863-2344 The Chaplains are available for personal counseling and support. Call to make an appointment. Located in Page-Robinson Hall, Room 410. BWell SHARE Advocates, 401-863-2794, [email protected] The SHARE (Sexual Harm Acute Response & Empowerment) Advocates in BWell Health Promotion are confidential resources at Brown that can provide support to any student from any part of the University (undergraduate, graduate, and medical students) affected by issues or experiences related to: Sexual Assault, Sexual and/or Gender-based Harassment, Domestic/Dating Violence, Relational Abuse, or Stalking, that has taken place at any time in their lives. Confidential services include acute responses or ongoing empowerment-based support for a survivor or the friends of a survivor, including help filing a complaint (if that is the student's choice) and/or navigating resources at Brown and in the community. Campus, NOT Confidential Resources: Department of Public Safety 401.863-4111 (emergency response) Emergency response and crime reporting available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. You can also contact the Special Victims Unit at 401.863-2542 for information and support concerning University and Providence Police reporting options. Services include safety planning, victim advocacy, court accompaniment and assistance with obtaining restraining orders. Seeking help from the Special Victims Unit does not require you to file a police report. Title IX Office (401) 863-2386, Rene Davis, Title IX Program Officer Information and support resources for the Brown University community around issues of sexual misconduct and Title IX. Office of Student Life/Administrator-on-Call 401.863-3145 (after hours, 863-4111) The Administrator-on-Call will provide support to any student reporting stalking behavior. A student can choose to file a complaint in the non-academic discipline system if the complaint is against another student. Stalking Links Stalking Resource Center The Stalking Resource Center from the National Center for Victims of Crimes offers extensive information for victims of stalking. National Institute of Justice A collection of resources on stalking from the National Institute of Justice, a division of the United States Department of Justice. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment How to Help a Friend When someone has been sexually assaulted, chances are that they will turn to a friend for help. You are an important person to the survivor; this is why the survivor shared this experience with you. Knowing how to respond will be very helpful in your friend's recovery. This page offers guidance on how to best support your friend. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook