Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Public Service Planning a Public Service Career Planning a Public Service Career Strategic Planning Seeking a career in government or the non-profit sector requires strategic planning throughout law school because job opportunities for public interest positions are substantially more limited than positions with traditional law firms. Public interest employers typically hire only when an opening arises and rarely participate in recruiting. Consequently, there tends to be substantial competition among law students and graduates when positions become available. Public interest employers place great importance on hiring individuals who can demonstrate a strong and continuing commitment to public service. As a result, students desiring a public interest career should plan to work closely with the Office of Public Service to identify opportunities that will build upon their public interest experience and position them well for opportunities that arise. Public Service JD - Your Pathway to Public Service Legal Careers PSJD is your ultimate public interest carerer resource and is free for law students at NALP member law schools and is an online clearinghouse for law students and lawyers to search among thousands of public interest job opportunities as well as review their online library of educational and career building resources for those interested in pursuing a career in public service. Learn more about PSJD HERE. Law-Related Public Service Graduation Requirement All JD students at SMU Dedman School of Law are required to complete 30 hours of law-related public service at a pre-approved placement to be eligible to graduate. This requirement is an excellent opportunity for students to test out different public interest practice settings, gain practical lawyering experience, and begin to develop a sense of the type of lawyer they would like to become and the area of law they find interesting. Many of our students complete substantially more hours volunteer public service hours and those with over 200 hours at graduation are inducted into the Pro Bono Honor Roll at graduation. Having extensive volunteer public service hours and gaining experience at a number of different nonprofits and government agencies helps demonstrate a student’s commitment to public service. Information on how to complete your public service hours can be found here. Unpaid Internships and For-Credit Externships Just as students can gain practical experience working in different nonprofit and government agencies completing their public service hours, summer internships and for-credit externships are longer-term placements that serve as phenomenal opportunities for students to develop proficiencies practicing law in the public sector. Law School Clinics SMU Dedman School of Law offers a vast array of clinical opportunities for students to gain experience representing the underserved in our community. Many of the clinics provide the students the chance to build skills that can make them an asset to various public interest employers. Information about our dynamic clinical program can be found here. Student Organizations There are a vast array of student organizations that a public service-minded student would find beneficial to both their career and personal development. In collaboration with the Office of Public Service, the Association for Public Interest Law raises funds each year to fund stipends to support students completing unpaid public service internships over the summer. Post-Graduate Fellowships Because job opportunities in public interest organizations are so limited, one of the best ways to establish a public interest law career is to participate in a post-graduate fellowship. Fellowships are short-term funded positions (typically 1-2 years) that are sponsored by a specific organization seeking to expand leadership in its particular area of law and allows fellows to assist underrepresented populations and/or address specific issues in a given community. These can be highly competitive and allow new attorneys to assume significant responsibility and gain valuable skills than would be possible in other types of legal work. More information about post-graduation fellowships can be found here. Also see the PSJD Guide to Postgraduate Fellowships Resource. Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram