Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now The College Tour Your insider’s guide to UCF Skip to Section Welcome to the Kingdom Explore college and campus life at UCF through the experiences of real students, faculty and alumni in the best (and biggest) virtual college tour you’ve ever seen. Featured on Season 3 of The College Tour, a TV series streaming on Amazon Prime, you’ll get an inside look at UCF’s campuses and what it means to be a Knight. Experience this one-of-a-kind series and discover why UCF is the university for the future. This is UCF Get facts about UCF, explore stats and rankings Visit UCF Take a tour of our Orlando campus. Apply Now We’ve made it easier than ever to apply to UCF. Here’s Your Inside Look at UCF Access to opportunities What does it mean to attend a metropolitan research university in one of the fastest growing regions in the country? It means that opportunities to follow your passion and put it to the test in the real world is right outside your front door. Academic Excellence Through innovative faculty research, powerful student achievements and exciting academic offerings, UCF encourages brilliant ideas, energizes economies and fills our community with pride. If you’re a thinker, dreamer or doer, we invite you to become a Knight and help solve the world’s most serious challenges. Campus life What’s it like to live on campus at UCF? You’re in the center of everything — classes, food, study spots, athletic events and social happenings. With tons of student resources and endless activities, it’s easy for you to find your home at UCF. Visit UCF Excited to see UCF for yourself? We’re excited, too. Touring campus is an important part of discovering why we’re the best school for you. And we’ve made it more convenient than ever with in-person, livestreamed and self-guided tour options. Whichever campus tour you choose, we look forward to showing you what it’s like to be a Knight. Visit UCF Explore All of The College Tour Videos From hands-on academics to groundbreaking research and memorable traditions — UCF students, alumni and faculty across our four campuses reflect on their unique experiences. The tour is divided into 18 easy-to-watch segments — find what interests you most to kick back, relax and discover why UCF is the top university for your future. Explore how UCF connects you to real-world opportunities in high-demand fields, like space and simulation, healthcare, and hospitality. Adam Breed ’08 ’12MBA Computer Science and Business Administration Orlando, FL Make your college experience one to remember. Find out UCF’s top traditions — including one that’s been voted best in the nation. Phillip Wright Broadcast Journalism and Theatre Tallahassee, FL UCF is home to a vibrant arts community. From painting to themed experiences, discover what inspires us to create and innovate. Alex Cumming Theatre BFA Orlando, FL Founded in 1963 to supply talent to the U.S. space program, UCF leads space education — even earning us the nickname “SpaceU.” Adrienne Dove, PhD Physics, Associate Professor Overland Park, KS Best graduate video design program in the world? We’ve got it. At UCF, blend technology and creativity to produce unparalleled results. Cassandra Emelianchik Graduate Student Interactive Entertainment MS Clermont, FL 4 campuses. 650+ student clubs and organizations. Tons of daily events. There’s always something to do and see at UCF. Christina Adams Advertising/Public Relations Oviedo, FL Learn about how UCF empowers students from all backgrounds to reach for the stars and how we can help you achieve your potential. Daniela Garcia ’21 Interdisciplinary Studies in Education and Portuguese, Minor in Political Science Queens, NY Find out how our renowned healthcare programs are making a greater collective impact in our communities and across the globe. Alison Redd, EdD Kinesiology & Physical Therapy, Lecturer Plymouth, MN There’s nothing like game day at UCF. From championships to loyal fans to the student-athlete experience, get ready to Charge On! Kiera Brown Psychology Riviera Beach, FL Discover how UCF engineers play a huge role in addressing some of our world’s greatest needs and bring solutions to life. Albert Manero ’12 ’14MS ’16PhD Mechanical Engineering Tampa, FL Mrudula Peddinti ’18 Art BFA & Digital Media BA Tampa, FL Living on campus places you in the center of everything. With tons of student resources and endless activities, it’s easy for you to find your home at UCF. Jeremy Singh Advertising/Public Relations Fayetteville, NC At UCF, you’ll create a better future. Get the foundation needed to develop global solutions that better humankind and the planet. Sergie Albino ’03 Aerospace Engineering Bacolod City, Philippines Want hands-on experience? Discover how UCF student researchers gain the skills and experience needed to become forces of influence in their fields. Kristy Lewis, PhD Marine Ecology, Assistant Professor Peachtree City, GA Innovative technologies. Renowned research. We’re shaping the future of aerospace and defense by fulfilling a demand for critical, high-value jobs. Jillian Gloria Aerospace Engineering Orlando, FL As cyberdefense takes center stage, UCF researchers and educators are working with industry to help shape — and protect — the future. Michael Troisi ’21 Information Technology/Secure Computing and Networks Minor Staten Island, NY Located in one of the most popular tourism destinations in the world, our top-ranked hospitality programs provide the knowledge, skills and connections needed to succeed. Kathy Li Hospitality Management East Brunswick, NJ About 50% of first-time in college students at UCF graduate debt-free. Find out how we’re making a quality education affordable. Cierra Turner Integrated Business Plant City, FL Innovative faculty research. Powerful student achievements. Exciting academic offerings. Get that and more at UCF. Alexander N. Cartwright, PhD University President Nassau, Bahamas Let’s get social! Connect and engage with some of the best and brightest Knights in the world. Connect with UCF on social Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram View our LinkedIn page Follow us on YouTube Follow us on TikTok Thirteen colleges. Unlimited possibilities. At UCF, we offer an array of academic options for just about every interest. Check out our 230+ degree programs, award-winning faculty and groundbreaking research. You’ll quickly discover all there is to experience and get inspired by at one of the nation’s largest universities. Arts and Humanities Business Burnett Honors Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Rosen College of Hospitality Management Sciences Graduate Studies Undergraduate Studies University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida