COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search WSU Esports varsity team marks a milestone for the program May 18, 2022 — After winning the Eastern College Athletic Conference Championship, the Wichita State Varsity Esports Valorant team qualified for a direct bid to compete in the Collegiate Esports Commissioners Cup, a milestone for WSU's Esports program. Meet a Shocker: Chonnor Ludolph May 5, 2022 — Chonnor Ludolph was named Mr. Shocker at the athletic department’s Gold Carpet Awards in April, given to a senior who displays excellence in athletics, academics, character, service, and personal development. Ludolph finished third in the American Athletic Conference decathlon in 2021. Chonnor is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about his time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Wichita State students learn backstage at NCAA's basketball showcase March 24, 2022 — Around 12-15 Wichita State students are volunteering for the practices and events surrounding the NCAA women's basketball Sweet 16 and Elite Eight games. Their responsibilities range from organizing practice schedules to decorating locker rooms with NCAA and school logos to working with media members on credentialing and seating. Some will run statistics. For those planning on a career in athletics, the applied learning experience adds to their resume and gives them experience working a nationally recognized event with large crowds and a television audience. Wichita State alums regard Ukraine as a second home: 'It rips your heart out' March 7, 2022 - Wichita State alums Matt and Stephanie Clark taught English to students from fifth grade to high school in Ukraine from 2006-08 as Peace Corps members. Their friends and their warm memories are in turmoil as the Russian invasion wears on in their adopted country. They rely on social media to hear from former students, host families and friends, as they try to sort good information from bad and bring attention to the crisis. American Athletic Conference expands with addition of six schools, three in Texas Oct. 29, 2021 - The American Athletic Conference is investing in big cities and the state of Texas with its addition of six new members recently. The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Florida Atlantic University, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, University of North Texas, Rice University and University of Texas at San Antonio had their applications for membership approved last week. From golfer to homicide detective? Meet Shocker Louisa Brunt Oct. 11, 2021 - Louisa Brunt, from Manchester, England, transferred to Wichita State from Texas Tech University to golf and to earn her master’s degree in criminal justice. Brunt graduated from Texas Tech, where she earned Academic All-Big 12 honors three times, with a major in criminology and a minor in forensic science. Brunt expects her career path to take her into police work or the FBI. How journalists remember their work on 1970 WSU plane crash coverage Sept. 27, 2021 — Local journalists tell their story of covering and remember those lost in the 1970 Wichita State University plane crash. Storytime Village, WSU partner to drive educational achievement Sept. 22, 2021 — What started as one woman’s passion project has flourished into a literacy empire that serves thousands of children in schools across the Wichita area — helped along the way by the people and services of Wichita State University. Heskett Center adds pickleball courts during outdoor renovations Oct. 16, 2021 - Later this fall, pickleball becomes permanent on campus at the Heskett Center’s Outdoor Sports Complex. When it became necessary to resurface six tennis courts, John Lee, director of Campus Recreation, decided to do something different. The complex will feature four pickleball courts, two courts for tennis and two existing courts for half-court basketball and one for futsal. WSU's Ratzlaff prepares to immerse himself in Paralympics experience Aug. 23, 2021 - Casey Ratzlaff, a Wichita State University senior majoring in sport management, will compete in the Tokyo Paralympics Games beginning Aug. 27, at Ariake Tennis Park in Tokyo. Shocker alum uses her Olympic voice to advocate for athletes as mothers Aug. 5, 2021 - Aliphine Tuliamuk is Wichita State’s greatest female track and field athlete and the owner of 13 NCAA All-American honors in track and cross country. She is also an Olympian, a new mother (daughter Zoe was born Jan. 13) and an athlete willing to speak out on important issues. Recently, she is lending her voice and example to advocate for female athletes who compete as mothers. Track coach uses iPhone, drone, slushies to document Kansas small towns July 9, 2021 - John Wise, Wichita State University assistant director of track and field, documents his love of history, travel and frozen soft drinks in “Travel With a Wiseguy” on YouTube. He posts a video weekly, many from trips around Kansas to visit small towns, ghost towns and places such as Old Oxford Mill and Little Jerusalem. WSU's Bredbenner creates her atmosphere of success on, off the field May 24, 2021 - Ten years into her career as coach at Wichita State, softball coach Kristi Bredbenner is well into creating her own atmosphere of winning and college experience. The Shockers ended their 2021 season by advancing to an NCAA regional final for the second time and with a 41-13-1 record. Shocker alumni rowers realize dream of building boathouse on Little Arkansas May 18, 2021 - The Wichita Rowing Association founded Wichita State University crew in 1974, and that shared history remains important to many former Shockers. On May 8, the WRA dedicated its $250,000 Riverside Rowing Center Boathouse at Riverside Park on the Little Arkansas River. Roll on: Wichita State bowlers double up with national championships May 13, 2021 - Wichita State’s bowling teams endured a lot to get to 2021. The COVID-19 pandemic ended their 2020 season with both teams ranked No. 1 nationally and riding in vans to their sectional qualifier in Fort Worth. On Saturday, they turned those trials and lessons of the past into a history-making day for college bowling’s most successful program. Wichita State won the men’s and women’s Intercollegiate Team Championship at Spectrum Entertainment Complex in Wyoming, Michigan. 1 2 3 4 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©