About Home Events Giving REU Nevis in the News Contact us Basics What we do Students and visitors What is physics? Physics for you Research Overview ATLAS MicroBooNE VERITAS Heavy ion Astrophysics RARAF Info Phone Book Directions Events Meeting rooms Services Webmail Wiki Viewcal (need login) Room reservations DocDB A/V (for tech setup) What is Physics? Physics is often described as the study of matter and energy. It is concerned with how matter and energy relate to each other, and how they affect each other over time and through space. Physicists ask the fundamental questions: How did the universe begin? How and of what is it made? How does it change? What rules govern its behavior? Physicists may be roughly divided into two camps: experimental physicists and theoretical physicists. Experimental physicists design and run careful investigations on a broad range of phenomena in nature, often under conditions which are atypical of our everyday lives. They may, for example, investigate what happens to the electrical properties of materials at temperatures very near absolute zero (-460 °F; -273 °C) or measure the characteristics of energy emitted by very hot gases. Theoretical physicists propose and develop models and theories to explain mathematically the results of experimental observations. Experiment and theory therefore have a broad overlap. Accordingly, experimental physicists remain keenly aware of the current theoretical work in their fields, while theoretical physicists must know the experimenters' results and the context in which the results need be interpreted. It is also useful to distinguish classical physics and modern physics. Classical physics has its origins approximately four hundred years ago in the studies of Galileo and Newton on mechanics, and similarly in the work of Ampere, Faraday, Maxwell and Oersted one hundred fifty years ago in the fields of electricity and magnetism. This physics handles objects which are neither too large nor too small, which move at relatively slow speeds (at least compared to the speed of light: 186,282 miles/second or 299,792 kilometers/second). The emergence of modern physics at the beginning of the twentieth century was marked by three achievements. The first, in 1905, was Einstein's brilliant model of light as a stream of particles (photons). The second, which followed a few months later, was his revolutionary theory of relativity which described objects moving at speeds close to the speed of light. The third breakthrough came in 1910 with Rutherford's discovery of the nucleus of the atom. Rutherford's work was followed by Bohr's model of the atom, which in turn stimulated the work of de Broglie, Heisenberg, Schroedinger, Born, Pauli, Dirac and others on the quantum theory. The avalanche of exciting discoveries in modern physics continues today. Given these distinctions within the field of physics (experimental and theoretical, classical and modern) it is useful to further subdivide physics into various disciplines, including astrophysics, atomic and molecular physics, biophysics, solid state physics, optical and laser physics, fluid and plasma physics, nuclear physics, and particle physics. WEBMASTER