Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links The Jesuit Institute Menu Main Nav The Jesuit Institute The Jesuit Institute Contact Back Back Close About Overview History of the Jesuit Institute Contact Conferences Overview Amoris Laetitia Toward a Culture of University Ethics Growing Apart Our Common Home International Networking in the Society of Jesus Secularization and the Jesuits Jesuit Survival and Restoration Events Overview Lectures Past Events Programs Overview Interdisciplinary Seminars Visiting Fellows Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Conferences International Networking in the Society of Jesus Conferences Amoris Laetitia Toward a Culture of University Ethics Growing Apart Our Common Home International Networking in the Society of Jesus Secularization and the Jesuits Jesuit Survival and Restoration International Networking in the Society of Jesus The 35th General Congregation remarked the challenges posed by globalization processes to the mission of the Society of Jesus and has, at the same time, underlined the Society’s potential for acting as a universal body. Both international and interprovincial collaboration has been strengthened to improve the apostolic work, and networking has been identified as one of the ways to do it. “We encourage the society’s government at all levels to explore means by which more effective networking might take place among all apostolic works associated with the Society of Jesus” General Congregation 35, Decree 6, n.28. The Jesuit Institute at Boston College, together with the Graduate School of Social Work and the Center for Ignatian Spirituality, host this conference to reflect on the challenges and potentials within our international network of institutions in order to facilitate and maximize our impact as a transnational body with a universal mission. Download Final Papers View Photos from the Event “Can we not go beyond the loose family relationships we now have as institutions, and re-imagine and re-organize ourselves so that, in this globalized world, we can more effectively realize the universality which has always been part of Ignatius’ vision of the Society?” Fr. Adolfo Nicolás, Jesuit Higher Education Meeting, México, April 2010 Objectives List of Participants Schedule Conference Objectives The conference brings together religious and lay people, academics and practitioners from apostolic works and from various different levels of Jesuit structures of governance. The main objective is to initiate a line of reflection and research on the opportunities and ways to develop international networking in the Ignatian family; given the challenges that globalization poses to the universal body of the Society of Jesus. Identify and analyze the main initiatives that already exist or are developing in the SJ. Analyze the key aspects for Jesuit international networking and identify concrete problems and questions that should be addressed. Present concrete proposals and recommendations for developing and improving international networking in the Society of Jesus. Position BC as a leading university in Jesuit international networking. Participants Agbonkhianmeghe Orobator S.J., Provincial of AOR. (Keynote) Alberto Godenzi, Dean Graduate School Social Work, Boston College. (Presenter) Anthony da Silva S.J., Secretary for Collaboration, General Curia. (Participant) Chris Lowney, President, Jesuit Commons. (Participant) Dan Halgin, Faculty, University of Kentucky. (Keynote) Daniel Villanueva S.J., Entreculturas. (Keynote) David Hollenbach S.J., Faculty and Director of Centre for Human Rights and International Justice, Boston College. (Presenter) Frank Brennan S.J., Australia National University and Australian Catholic University. (Keynote) Gerald Kane, Faculty, Carroll Business School, Boston College. (Keynote) Gerry Blaszczak S.J., Secretary for the promotion of Faith, General Curia. (Presenter) Gonzalo Villagran S.J., STM, Boston College. (Participant) Gregory F. Lucey S.J., President Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities. (Participant) Gregory Kalscheur S.J., Faculty, School of Law, Boston College. (Participant) Gustavo Morello S.J., Faculty, Department of Sociology, Boston College. (Participant) Jeremy Zipple S.J., STM, Boston College. (Participant) Jim Keenan S.J., Faculty, Department of Theology, Boston College. (Keynote) Jorge Cela S.J., President CPAL – Latin America and Caribbean Jesuit Conference. (Keynote) Jose Magadia S.J., Provincial of Philippines. (Keynote) Jose María Segura S.J., STM, Boston College. (Participant) Luis Arancibia, Entreculturas executive director - BC visiting scholar. (Keynote) Mark Raper S.J., President Asia Pacific Jesuit Conference. , Keynote) Maryanne Loughry R.S.M., Faculty, Graduate School of Social Work, Boston College – JRS Australia. (Participant) Michael Boughton S.J., Center for Ignatian Spirituality, Boston College. (Participant) Myles Sheehan S.J., Provincial of NEN. (Participant) Patxi Alvarez S.J., Secretary of Social Justice and Ecology, General Curia. (Keynote) Philip Endean S.J., Faculty, Oxford University. (Keynote) René Michallef S.J., STM, Boston College. (Participant) Rocio Calvo, Faculty, Graduate School of Social Work, Boston College. (Participant) T. Frank Kennedy S.J., Director Jesuit Institute, Boston College. (Presenter) Tom Regan S.J., Faculty, Loyola University Chicago and former provincial of NEN. (Keynote) Tom Smolich S.J., President USA Jesuit Conference. (Participant) Tomeu Estelrich, University Mission and Ministry, Boston College. (Presenter) Travis Russell S.J., California Province. (Participant) William Leahy S.J., President, Boston College. (Keynote) Xavier Jeyaraj S.J., Assistant Secretary for Social Justice and ecology, General Curia. (Participant) Schedule The conference was held at McGuinn Hall 521 on April 28-30, 2012. Saturday, April 28 8:45 a.m.—Welcome (T. Frank Kennedy S.J.) 9:15 a.m.—Networking & General Congregation 35th (Daniel Villanueva S.J., Frank Brennan S.J.) 11:00 a.m.—Concept of Networking (Dan Halgin) 12:00 p.m.—Lunch 1:15 p.m.—Present Situation (Luis Arancibia) 1:40 p.m.—Experiences of international networking 3:15 p.m.—Dialogue & Reflection on the Day (Xavier Jeyaraj S.J.) 5:30 p.m.—Mass Sunday, April 29 9:00 a.m.—Mission (Jose Magadia S.J., William Leahy S.J.) 11:00 a.m.—Spirituality (James Keenan S.J., Patxi Alvarez S.J.) 12:15 p.m.—Lunch 1:30 p.m.—Ignatian Antecedents (Philip Endean S.J.) 3:00 p.m.—Dialogue & Reflection on the Day (Michael Boughton S.J.) 5:30 p.m.—Mass Monday, April 30 9:00 a.m.—Organization (Gerald Kane, Jorge Cela S.J.) 11:00 a.m.—Governance (Thomas Regan S.J., Agbonkhianmeghe Orobator S.J.) 12:15 p.m.—Lunch 1:30 p.m.—General Conclusions (Tomeu Estelrich) 2:15 p.m.—Looking into the future (David Hollenbach S.J., Gerry Blaszczak S.J.) 5:30 p.m.—Mass Back To Top Back To Top The Jesuit Institute Faber House 102 College Road Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-8290 james.keenan.2@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College