Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Geographic Information Systems PSM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Geographic Information Systems PSM Apply Request More Info Geographic Information Systems PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Professional Science Master’s in Geographic Information Systems Acquire advanced technical training in programming and geographic information systems (GIS) with a Professional Science Master’s in Geographic Information Systems in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. Students are trained in core skills, as well as professional development and business ethics, to advance their careers or prepare them to enter the geographic information systems workforce. GIS is a rapidly growing field that combines cartography, spatial databases and statistics to gather and analyze data. It provides an innovative platform that changes how businesses and organizations use and understand data. In this 30-credit professional master’s degree program, you will create and utilize maps to analyze and share information, reveal patterns and relationships, and provide actionable findings to help solve complex global problems. Students learn in-demand technical and project management skills including programming, data analysis and visualization, Structured Query Language (SQL), statistics and design. GIS skills are exceedingly marketable within virtually all fields including business, disaster response, economic development, health and the environment. Temple’s Geography and Urban Studies Department faculty have experience across a broad range of GIS applications, including business, environment, geovisualization, health, location analysis, remote sensing and urban issues. Professors within the Geography and Urban Studies Department are also active researchers with expertise in the following research methodologies. GIS Program evaluation Qualitative methods Remote sensing Spatial statistics Research within the department focuses on geographic methods, globalization, social justice and sustainability. Graduate students play an active role in sponsored research projects. As a graduate of the Geographic Information Systems PSM, you will be prepared to take the Geographic Information Systems Professional (GISP) certification exam and participate in professional GIS work. Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Program Format & Curriculum Students have three years to satisfy the requirements of the Geographic Information Systems PSM program on a full- or part-time basis with classes offered after 4:30 p.m. on Temple’s Main Campus. The 30-credit hour Geographic Information Systems PSM curriculum emphasizes job-ready practical skills including scientific writing, verbal communication, presentation skills and critical thinking. Completion of the degree requires core coursework, four electives and a GIS Capstone course. The capstone project provides an experiential and industry-relevant internship consisting of 140 hours and the creation of an original GIS-focused project. Core courses include the following. Advanced Statistics for Urban Applications Cartographic Design GIS Ethics and Professional Practice GIS Programming Spatial Database Design Learn more about Geographic Information Systems PSM courses. Related Graduate Degrees Geography and Urban Studies MA Geography and Urban Studies PhD Geospatial Data Science PSM Related Graduate Certificates Geographic Information Systems Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Professional Science Masters offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For questions regarding the Geographic Information Systems PSM, contact the following staff member. Liz Janczewski is the student services coordinator in the College of Liberal Arts. Phone: 215-204-3386 Email: liz.janczewski@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Geography and Urban Studies Department. Melissa Gilbert is the chair. Phone: 215-204-5482 Email: mgilbert@temple.edu Hamil Pearsall is the graduate chair. Phone: 215-204-3074 Email: hamil.pearsall@temple.edu Lee Hachadoorian is the director. Phone: 215-204-3331 Email: lee.hachadoorian@temple.edu Vicki Giammarco is the senior manager of administration. Phone: 215.204.7692 Email: vicki.giammarco@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Geographic Information Systems PSM coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offer you the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Complete graduate coursework, participate in internships or collaborate in research while immersing yourself in the culture, history and people of your host city. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. Temple’s Geographic Information Systems Professional Science Master's is affiliated with the National Professional Science Master’s Association and designed in partnership with an advisory board of industry professionals to ensure student skills are matched to the needs of employers. LA-GIS-PSM Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Geographic Information Systems PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info