Skip to main content Skip to main navigation George W. Truett Theological Seminary Menu About Greetings from the Dean Who We Are History What We Believe Accreditations & Affiliations Campuses Houston San Antonio Faculty Jared E. Alcántara, Ph.D. Andrew Arterbury, Ph.D. Dustin D. Benac, Th.D. Kimlyn J. Bender, Ph.D. Stephanie Boddie, PhD Brian C. Brewer, Ph.D. R. Robert Creech, Ph.D. David E. Garland, Ph.D. Scott M. Gibson, D.Phil. Angela Gorrell, Ph.D. Joel C. Gregory, Ph.D. Rebecca Poe Hays, Ph.D. Grear Howard, D.Min. Angela Reed, Ph.D. Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D. Todd D. Still, Ph.D. Michael W. Stroope, Ph.D. W. Dennis Tucker, Jr. Ph.D. Preben Vang, Ph.D. Joel Weaver, Ph.D John B. White, Ph.D. David Wilhite, Ph.D. Gaynor Yancey, DSW Terry York, D.M.A. Books by Truett Faculty Staff Denisha Akpan Arbra Bailey Maxcey Blaylock Jack Bodenhamer Bridgette Boggess Keith Bruce, D.Min. John K. Burk, Ph.D. Julie Covington Jackie Diaz Nancy Floyd Malcolm Foley, Ph.D. Rusty Freeman, D.Min. Brian Gamel, Ph.D. Karen Green Matt Homeyer, D.Min. Grear Howard, D.Min. Jennifer Howell, Ph.D. Melissa Lambeth Jenn Martinez-Ayala Nancy Plotts Paul Putz, Ph.D. Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski Ben Simpson Jon Sisk Evan Taddia J. David Tate Cindy White Audrey Yadon News The Cord Magazine Board of Advocates Contact Us Need More Info About Truett? Map & Parking Departmental Directory Academics Degree Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Christian Ministry (M.A.C.M.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology and Sports Studies Master of Arts (M.A.) in Contextual Witness and Innovation Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Ph.D. in Preaching M.Div./Juris Doctor (J.D.) M.Div./Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) M.Div./Master of Education (M.Ed.) M.Div./Master of Music (M.M.) M.Div./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) M.T.S./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) Academic Catalog Faculty Advanced Standing Admissions Apply Master's Degrees Doctor of Ministry PhD in Preaching Request More Information Why Truett? Culture & Community Affordability Academics Baylor University Visit Truett Truett Preview Personal Visit Virtual Visit Group Visit Truett on the Road Map & Parking Recruitment Team Tuition & Financing Scholarships Baylor Students Transfer Students Incoming Students New Student Orientation Advanced Standing Programs & Centers Black Church Studies Program Program Pillars Leadership Faith & Sports Institute About the Faith & Sports Institute Graduate Degree Programs Online Certificate Program High School Retreat Research & Resources Kyle Lake Center for Effective Preaching National Preaching Conference African American Preaching Conference Boomers & Beyond Conference Additional Resources 12 Most Effective Preachers Survey Office of Ministry Connections About the OMC Staff Ministry Positions Post a Ministry Position Additional Resources Ministry Position Administrative Tools Online Certificate Program Program Overview Enrollment Online Courses Seminar Courses Current Students Staff Testimonials FAQ Request More Info Program for the Future Church Who We Are What We Do Our Team Support Us Connect with Us Spiritual Formation Program Spiritual Formation Courses Spiritual Direction Training Program Personal Counseling Spiritual Direction for Baylor Students Spiritual Direction for the Truett Community Plan a Personal Retreat Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Program About Degree Program Partnerships News Truett Church Network Center for Ministry Effectiveness Ministry Resident Program Truett Pastors Conference Wesley House of Studies Students Academic Services Registration Advising Degree Planning Substitutions & Waivers Graduation Transfer Students Advanced Standing Look Up Classes Academic Complaints Scholarship Services Mentoring Program How Do I Begin Currently Mentoring Financial Wellness Resources Online Tools Final Exam Schedule Lifelong Formation Truett Student Employment Code of Conduct Student Organizations Campus Resources Events & Resources Conferences & Lectures Dobbs Lecture Drumwright Lectures Parchman Lectures TB Maston Lecture Willson-Addis Lecture E.K. Bailey Preaching Celebration Science & Christian Ministry Conference African American Preaching Conference National Preaching Conference Summer Intensive with N.T. Wright Texas Baptist Women in Ministry Conference Athletics, Race, and Christianity (ARC) Talks Women's World Day of Prayer Racism in the White Church Truett Chapel Events Friends of Truett Dinner 20th Anniversary Campus Celebration Building Reservations Room Reservations Wedding Reservations Truett Faculty & Staff Resources Technology Support Media Library Truett Chapel African American Preaching Conference Dobbs Lectures Media Library E.K. Bailey Memorial Preaching Event Fall Preaching Convocation Parchman Lectures Preacher's Workshop Media Page Willson-Addis Media Library Archives Other Recordings Lenten Devotional Guide 2022 Continuing Education Course Catalog Alumni Continuing Education Tools & Benefits Employment Events Calendar Student Recruitment Giving to Truett Make a Gift Baylor>George W. Truett Seminary>Programs & Centers>Online Certificate Program>Online Courses Online Courses CCF00 - Orientation and Formation The first course in the Truett Seminary Certificate Program is 8 weeks in duration and covers the subject of Spiritual Formation—the basic process by which Christians are formed spiritually. The course includes practices and understandings that can help Christians grow closer to God and live out their faith more vibrantly. In addition, the course teaches skills to help promote success in the Certificate Program. Additionally, a guided biblical study of the "Kingdom of God” in Matthew and Luke runs through the entirety of the course. Prerequisites: None Textbook: Smith, James Bryan. The Good and Beautiful God. InterVarsity Press, 2009. Workload: Light reading accompanied by personal growth reflections Register Here CCF01 - Biblical Interpretation The required second course in the Truett Seminary Certificate Program teaches students how to better read, interpret, and apply Scripture with an emphasis on observing Scripture and interpreting it within its appropriate contexts. Prerequisites: CCF00 - Orientation and Formation (required) Textbook: Duvall, J. Scott, and J. Daniel Hays. Grasping God’s Word: A Hands-On Approach to Reading, Interpreting, and Applying the Bible. Zondervan, 4th edition, 2020. (*Also used in CCF02 and CCF03) Workload: Gradually increases from easy to modest difficulty Register Here CCF02 - Survey of the Old Testament This course presents an overview of the Old Testament with a particular focus on the history and culture of the various time periods that serve as its backdrop and setting. Prerequisites: CCF01 - Biblical Interpretation (required) Textbook: Arnold, Bill T., and Bryan E. Beyer. Encountering the Old Testament: A Christian Survey. Baker Academic, 2015 Students will also use the book from CCF01 as a supplementary text. Workload: Increased amount of reading Register Here CCF03 - Survey of the New Testament This course offers an overview of the New Testament, with a particular focus on its historical and cultural contexts. Prerequisites: CCF01 - Biblical Interpretation (required) CCF02 - Survey of the Old Testament (recommended) Textbook: Burge, Gary M, Lynn H. Cohick, and Gene L. Green. The New Testament in Antiquity: A Survey of the New Testament within its Cultural Contexts. Zondervan, 2nd edition, 2020. Students will also use the book from CCF01 as a supplementary text. Workload: Increased amount of reading Register Here CCF04 - Introduction to Theology This course covers the doctrines and dogmas of the church that are built on the foundation of Scripture. This is not merely a dry study of facts and concepts, but rather, a vibrant consideration of faith and the practical ways of how beliefs affect the Christian life. Additionally, this course includes a brief overview of Baptist identity. Much of this overview is in keeping with broad evangelical beliefs, which is valuable regardless of one’s denominational background. Prerequisites: CCF01 - Biblical Interpretation (required) CCF03 - Survey of the New Testament (recommended) Textbook: Jones, Beth Felker. Practicing Christian Doctrine: An Introduction to Thinking and Living Theologically. Baker Academic, 2014. Tuck, William Powell. Our Baptist Tradition. Smyth & Helwys Publishing, Inc., 2005. Workload: Introductory readings with some theological terms and reflection required Schedule: 10 weeks - Introduction to doctrine and theology 2 weeks - Brief survey of Baptist identity Register Here CCF05 - Introduction to Church History This course is not a comprehensive look at church history, but it does offer a brief overview. The goal of the course is to provide a vibrant and enjoyable study of our shared Christian story, rather than dry facts about people, places, and events. In addition, students will learn about the history of Baptists in the United States. The course is comprehensive enough for Baptist students, but also generously broad for those of different denominational backgrounds. Prerequisites: CCF01 - Biblical Interpretation (required) CCF04 - Introduction to Theology (recommended) Textbooks: Durso, Pamela R., Keith E. Durso. The Story of Baptists in the United States. Baptist History and Heritage Society, 2006. Jones, Timothy Paul. Christian History Made Easy. Rose Publishing, Inc., 2009. Workload: Moderate difficulty; somewhat more writing than average Schedule: 7 weeks - General overview of church history 5 weeks - Introduction to the history of Baptists in the United States Register Here COM06 - Pastoral Care This course is suitable for ministers of all types and is required to achieve a Certificate of Ministry. It strives to teach the essential aspects of providing care for people in times of crisis. The subject matter is not specific to “pastors”, but rather it is intended for any who may find themselves extending care on behalf of a congregation. Prerequisites: CCF04 - Introduction to Theology (required) Textbook: Switzer, David K. Pastoral Care Emergencies. Fortress Press, 2000. Workload: Challenging due to depth and subject matter Register Here COM07 - Preaching 1 This course is suitable for laypeople and ministers of all types— not just those called to pulpit ministry. Preaching is the practice of communicating a passage of Scripture in a way that seeks to connect to people’s hearts and to prompt them toward application. To better prepare everyone for the ministry of the proclamation of the Gospel, either this course or an in-person Preaching Seminar is recommended. This course is required to achieve a Certificate of Ministry. Prerequisites: CCF01 - Biblical Interpretation (required) CCF02 - Survey of the Old Testament (recommended) CCF03 - Survey of the New Testament (recommended) CCF04 - Introduction to Theology (recommended) Textbook: Robinson, Haddon. Biblical Preaching. Baker Academic, 2014. Workload: Challenging due to the amount of reading and work Register Here CCS06 - Christian Care (coming soon) This course is suitable for laypeople of all types (anyone in an official ministry capacity should consider taking COM06 - Pastoral Care instead). In this course you will learn the essential aspects of caring for friends, family, and community in times of crisis and grief. This course is required to achieve a Certificate of Christian Studies. Prerequisites: CCF04 - Introduction to Theology (required) Textbook: TBA Workload: Challenging due to depth and subject matter Registration Coming Fall 2020 CCS07 - Christian Witness This course is suitable for laypeople and ministers of all types who want to become better equipped to share the Gospel in an ever-changing world. Additionally, the goal is to help believers with their relationship with the world and with God through the continued study of the Gospel. This course is required to achieve a Certificate of Christian Studies. Prerequisites: CCF01 - Biblical Interpretation (required) CCF02 - Survey of the Old Testament (recommended) CCF03 - Survey of the New Testament (recommended) CCF04 - Introduction to Theology (recommended) Textbooks: Chester, Tim and Steve Timmis. Everyday Church: Gospel Communities on Mission (Wheaton, Ill: Crossway, 2012). Hunter III, George G. The Celtic Way of Evangelism, Tenth Anniversary Edition: How Christianity Can Reach the West . . .Again, 10th Revised edition. (Nashville: Abingdon Press, 2010) Frost, Michael. Surprise the World: The Five Habits of Highly Missional People (Colorado Springs, CO: NavPress, 2015). Workload: Challenging due to reading and work Register Here Programs & Centers Black Church Studies Program Program Pillars Leadership Faith & Sports Institute About the Faith & Sports Institute Our Team Staff Team of Advocates Graduate Degree Programs Sports Ministry (M.Div., M.A.C.M.) Download Program Flyer Life in the Program Course Offerings Career Options FAQ Scholarships Sports Studies (Online M.A.) Online Certificate Program Course Offerings FAQ Program Overview Program Benefits & Testimonials Register High School Retreat Students Mentors Partners FAQ Research & Resources FSI Research Initiatives FSI Team of Collaborators Resources Faith & Sports Forum Sports Ministry Chapel FSI in the News Kyle Lake Center for Effective Preaching National Preaching Conference African American Preaching Conference Featured Speakers 2021 Conference Information Conference Schedule Parking & Location Information 2021 Featured Speakers Steering Committee FAQ Sponsorships Boomers & Beyond Conference Conference Schedule Additional Resources 12 Most Effective Preachers Survey Survey Results About the Survey Media Event Related Media 1996 Survey Office of Ministry Connections About the OMC Staff Ministry Positions Post a Ministry Position Additional Resources Ministry Position Administrative Tools Online Certificate Program Program Overview Our Certificates Foundation Certificate Primary Certificates Certificate of Community Development & Ministry Advanced Certificates Continuing Education Certificate Checklist Enrollment Online Courses Seminar Courses Current Students Make a $125 Payment Download Course Catalog Elective Options Current Announcements Extension Payment Certificate Request Form Course Directory Staff Testimonials FAQ Request More Info Program for the Future Church Who We Are What We Do Our Team Support Us Connect with Us Spiritual Formation Program Spiritual Formation Courses Covenant Group Placement Questionnaire FAQs Spiritual Direction Training Program Continuing Education Academic Credit Program Overview FAQ Personal Counseling Spiritual Direction for Baylor Students Spiritual Direction for the Truett Community Plan a Personal Retreat Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Program About Degree Program Partnerships News Truett Church Network Center for Ministry Effectiveness Ministry Resident Program Truett Pastors Conference Why Attend? Hotels Conference Schedule Wesley House of Studies George W. Truett Theological Seminary 1100 South 3rd Street Waco, TX 76706 254.710.3755 Apply Visit Request Information Why Truett? Give General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Greetings from the Dean Who We Are History What We Believe Accreditations & Affiliations Campuses Houston San Antonio Faculty Jared E. Alcántara, Ph.D. Andrew Arterbury, Ph.D. Dustin D. Benac, Th.D. Kimlyn J. Bender, Ph.D. Stephanie Boddie, PhD Brian C. Brewer, Ph.D. R. Robert Creech, Ph.D. David E. Garland, Ph.D. Scott M. Gibson, D.Phil. Angela Gorrell, Ph.D. Joel C. Gregory, Ph.D. Rebecca Poe Hays, Ph.D. Grear Howard, D.Min. Angela Reed, Ph.D. Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D. Todd D. Still, Ph.D. Michael W. Stroope, Ph.D. W. Dennis Tucker, Jr. Ph.D. Preben Vang, Ph.D. Joel Weaver, Ph.D John B. White, Ph.D. David Wilhite, Ph.D. Gaynor Yancey, DSW Terry York, D.M.A. Books by Truett Faculty Staff Denisha Akpan Arbra Bailey Maxcey Blaylock Jack Bodenhamer Bridgette Boggess Keith Bruce, D.Min. John K. Burk, Ph.D. Julie Covington Jackie Diaz Nancy Floyd Malcolm Foley, Ph.D. Rusty Freeman, D.Min. Brian Gamel, Ph.D. Karen Green Matt Homeyer, D.Min. Grear Howard, D.Min. Jennifer Howell, Ph.D. Melissa Lambeth Jenn Martinez-Ayala Nancy Plotts Paul Putz, Ph.D. Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski Ben Simpson Jon Sisk Evan Taddia J. David Tate Cindy White Audrey Yadon News The Cord Magazine Board of Advocates Contact Us Need More Info About Truett? Map & Parking Departmental Directory Academics Degree Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Christian Ministry (M.A.C.M.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology and Sports Studies Master of Arts (M.A.) in Contextual Witness and Innovation Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Ph.D. in Preaching M.Div./Juris Doctor (J.D.) M.Div./Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) M.Div./Master of Education (M.Ed.) M.Div./Master of Music (M.M.) M.Div./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) M.T.S./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) Academic Catalog Faculty Advanced Standing Admissions Apply Master's Degrees Doctor of Ministry PhD in Preaching Request More Information Why Truett? Culture & Community Affordability Academics Baylor University Visit Truett Truett Preview Personal Visit Virtual Visit Group Visit Truett on the Road Map & Parking Recruitment Team Tuition & Financing Scholarships Baylor Students Transfer Students Incoming Students New Student Orientation Advanced Standing Programs & Centers Black Church Studies Program Program Pillars Leadership Faith & Sports Institute About the Faith & Sports Institute Graduate Degree Programs Online Certificate Program High School Retreat Research & Resources Kyle Lake Center for Effective Preaching National Preaching Conference African American Preaching Conference Boomers & Beyond Conference Additional Resources 12 Most Effective Preachers Survey Office of Ministry Connections About the OMC Staff Ministry Positions Post a Ministry Position Additional Resources Ministry Position Administrative Tools Online Certificate Program Program Overview Enrollment Online Courses Seminar Courses Current Students Staff Testimonials FAQ Request More Info Program for the Future Church Who We Are What We Do Our Team Support Us Connect with Us Spiritual Formation Program Spiritual Formation Courses Spiritual Direction Training Program Personal Counseling Spiritual Direction for Baylor Students Spiritual Direction for the Truett Community Plan a Personal Retreat Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Program About Degree Program Partnerships News Truett Church Network Center for Ministry Effectiveness Ministry Resident Program Truett Pastors Conference Wesley House of Studies Students Academic Services Registration Advising Degree Planning Substitutions & Waivers Graduation Transfer Students Advanced Standing Look Up Classes Academic Complaints Scholarship Services Mentoring Program How Do I Begin Currently Mentoring Financial Wellness Resources Online Tools Final Exam Schedule Lifelong Formation Truett Student Employment Code of Conduct Student Organizations Campus Resources Events & Resources Conferences & Lectures Dobbs Lecture Drumwright Lectures Parchman Lectures TB Maston Lecture Willson-Addis Lecture E.K. Bailey Preaching Celebration Science & Christian Ministry Conference African American Preaching Conference National Preaching Conference Summer Intensive with N.T. Wright Texas Baptist Women in Ministry Conference Athletics, Race, and Christianity (ARC) Talks Women's World Day of Prayer Racism in the White Church Truett Chapel Events Friends of Truett Dinner 20th Anniversary Campus Celebration Building Reservations Room Reservations Wedding Reservations Truett Faculty & Staff Resources Technology Support Media Library Truett Chapel African American Preaching Conference Dobbs Lectures Media Library E.K. Bailey Memorial Preaching Event Fall Preaching Convocation Parchman Lectures Preacher's Workshop Media Page Willson-Addis Media Library Archives Other Recordings Lenten Devotional Guide 2022 Continuing Education Course Catalog Alumni Continuing Education Tools & Benefits Employment Events Calendar Student Recruitment Giving to Truett Make a Gift