Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory ADVANCE at Brown Faculty Development 2012-2013 Seminar Series ADVANCE at Brown 2012-2013 Seminar Series 2012 - 2013 Sept 27 Julie Biteen, University of Michigan hosted by Domenico Pacifici, Engineering Barus & Holley Room 190, 4PM Peering into Cells One Molecule at a Time:Single-molecule and plasmon-enhanced fluorescence forsuper-resolution imaging of living bacteria Abstract: Single-molecule fluorescence brings the resolution of opticalmicroscopy down to the nanometer scale, allowing us to unlock themysteries of how biomolecules work together to achieve the complexitythat is a cell. This high-resolution, non-destructive method for examiningsubcellular events has opened up an exciting new frontier: the study ofmacromolecular localization and dynamics in living cells. We havedeveloped methods for single-molecule investigations of live bacterialcells, and have used these techniques to investigate three importantprokaryotic systems: membrane-bound transcription activation in Vibriocholerae, carbohydrate catabolism in Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron, and DNA mismatch repair inBacillus subtilis. Each system presents unique challenges, and we will discuss the importantmethods developed for each system, in particular, a comparison of membrane-bound and solubleproteins, extensions to two-color and 3D imaging, and adaptations for studying live anaerobiccells. Furthermore, we use the plasmon modes of bio-compatible metal nanoparticles to enhancethe emissivity of single-molecule fluorophores. The resolution of single-molecule imaging in cellsis generally limited to 20-40 nm, far worse than the 1.5-nm localization accuracies which havebeen attained in vitro. We therefore use plasmonics to improve the brightness and stability ofsingle-molecule probes, and in particular fluorescent proteins, which are widely used for bioimaging.We find that gold-coupled fluorophores demonstrate brighter, longer-lived emission,yielding an overall enhancement in total photons detected. Ultimately, this results in increasedlocalization accuracy for single-molecule imaging. Furthermore, since fluorescence intensity isproportional to local electromagnetic field intensity, these changes in decay intensity and rateserve as a nm-scale read-out of the field intensity. Our work indicates that plasmonic substrates areuniquely advantageous for super-resolution imaging, and that plasmon-enhanced imaging is apromising technique for improving live cell single-molecule microscopy. Feb 22 Shayla Sawyer, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, hosted by Domenico Pacifici, Engineering Barus & Holley Room 190, 4PM Hybrid nanostructures for enhanced optoelectronics Abstract: Performance enhancement is enabled by the use of lowcost, hybrid inorganic/organic nanostructured materials. For much ofthis research, the inorganic materials are nanostructured metaloxides. Advantages due to a high surface to volume ratio for betterlight absorption and an inherent large internal gain are typicallyhindered by surface defects and slow carrier transport mechanisms.Our research explores processes and the development of noveldevices with strategic use of inorganic/organic core shell structureswhich provide surface passivation, better light absorption, andimproved carrier transport. The combination provides markedly improved detectorperformance such as high responsivities on the order of 100s of A/W and improved transientresponses by orders of magnitude. Furthermore, the nature of these materials leads to itsdeposition on various substrates, extending its potential sensing applications. May 2 Emilia Morosan, Rice University Barus & Holley Room 190, 4PM The interplay between magnetism and superconductivity – the “water” and “oil”of condensed matter physics MacMillan Hall 317, 12PM Abstract: Conventional wisdom teaches us that magnetism and superconductivity areincompatible. However several examples are now known, which not only contradictthis long-held belief, but support the idea that magnetic instabilities are necessaryfor high temperature superconductivity. In this talk, I will discuss our understandingof the interplay between crystal structure, magnetism and superconductivityas a route for designing practical superconductors. Some specific examples willinclude a newly discovered transition metal pnictides superconductor, 2D and 3Dtransition metal pnictides, and a unique magnetic structure in a layered transitionmetal oxychalcogenide. Related Files Professor Emilia Morosan Professor Shayla Sawyer Professor Julie Biteen About People Leadership Program Faculty Development 2012-2013 Seminar Series 2011-12 Science Seminar Series FONE One-to-One Faculty Mentoring Program Peer-Mentoring Groups Sponsored Project Support Work-Life Balance Transforming Departments Visiting Scholars Resources News Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory