Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Awards » Core Awards » Gaither Junior Fellows Program Set Navigation title in component Core Awards Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship Udall Info Session Priority Awards Boren Awards Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Gaither Junior Fellows Program Each year, through the James C. Gaither Junior Fellows program, the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace—a non-partisan foreign-policy think tank with centers in Washington D.C., Moscow, Beirut, Beijing, Brussels, and New Delhi—offers approximately 12 one-year fellowships to uniquely qualified graduating seniors and individuals who have graduated during the past academic year. James C. Gaither Junior Fellows work as research assistants to Carnegie’s senior scholars. In order to apply, you must contact NCA by the Intent to Apply Deadline. Deadlines Application Opens: October 2022 Campus Deadline: December 1, 2022 National Deadline: January 15, 2023 Award Details right arrow down arrow James C. Gaither Junior Fellows provide research assistance to scholars working in Carnegie programs. You may learn more about their programs by visiting Carnegie's homepage. Gaither Junior Fellows have the opportunity to conduct research for books, co-author journal articles and policy papers, participate in meetings with high-level officials, contribute to congressional testimony, and organize briefings attended by scholars, journalists, and government officials. Fellows are selected from a pool of candidates nominated by several hundred participating universities and colleges. Positions are paid, full-time positions for one year. The semi-monthly salary is $1,791.67 (equivalent to $43,000 annually) subject to federal, state and local taxes. A generous benefits package is provided, including medical, dental and life insurance as well as vacation leave. Gaither Junior Fellows are responsible for their own housing arrangements. The fellows begin work August 1, 2022 at Carnegie in Washington, DC working with Carnegie’s senior scholars in the following fields for the 2022-23 fellowship year: Democracy, Conflict, and Governance American Statecraft—Background in history, international relations theory, or international economics is essential, along with an interest in military issues and U.S. foreign policy process. Nuclear Policy Technology and International Affairs—Strong writing skills (ability to write well and assimilate feedback in a timely manner), diverse research skills (e.g., ability to find and distill content from scholarly and gray literature, ability to use Excel to organize and analyze information), attention to detail, and ability to communicate effectively with a diverse team are essential. Middle East—Strong reading fluency and the ability to perform academic as well as on-line research in Arabic essential. Strong background in Middle East politics and/or history is a huge plus. International Security and Political Economy [to work with the International Security and South Asia Program] —Quantitative data analysis and GIS skills are required. A strong mathematical background is a plus. Ideal candidates will have a strong academic background in international relations theory, political theory, or international political economy along with an interest in military issues. Asia Program (China)—Mandarin Chinese reading skills required. Asia Program (Japan)—Japanese reading skills required. Asia Program (Economics)—Mandarin Chinese reading skills a huge plus. Strong background in economics essential. *Please note: Applicants for the Asia program with skills in two or more of the above areas (Chinese language skills, Japanese language skills, strong economics background) will be at an advantage when applying, regardless of their essay selection.* Russia and Eurasia—Excellent Russian reading skills required. Africa Program—The program examines the economic, social, political, and external factors shaping Africa today, with the aim of helping regional and international policy actors strengthen their contributions to a prosperous and stable African future. Who Should Apply right arrow down arrow Eligibility Criteria Graduating seniors or students who have graduated during the last academic year Anyone who has started graduate studies is ineligible for consideration (except in cases where the student has completed a joint bachelor’s/master’s degree program) Applicants must be eligible to work in the United States for a full twelve months from approximately August 1 through July 31 following graduation. Students on F-1 visas who are eligible to work in the United States for the full year may apply for the program. Selection Criteria The quality of the written essay Related academic study and/or work experience Grades Recommendations Personal interviews Additional selection criteria related to the specific research program may apply (such as language skills) Application Components right arrow down arrow An application form Essay of one page or less, double-spaced on why the student would like to become a Junior Fellow Résumé or CV (preferably 1-2 pages) Essay of no more than three (3) typewritten, double-spaced pages written in response to the prompt pertaining to the program to which they are applying Transcript of undergraduate records (official or unofficial) Letters of Recommendation (2) from anyone the student feels can best speak to their abilities as a potential Gaither Junior Fellow How to Apply right arrow down arrow In the fall, attend an NCA Learning Series session on the Gaither Junior Fellows Program. Complete two NCA forms: Intake form Records Release Form and submit to nca@uc.edu Confirm your intent to apply with NCA Submit your application by the Campus Deadline: December 1, 2022. Those selected for campus interviews will meet with the committee in December or early January. UC may endorse 2-3 candidates each year. Endorsed candidates submit revised application by National Deadline in mid-January. Helpful Links, Tips, and Reminders right arrow down arrow Information on this page is intended to supplement, not supplant, your own careful review of the official Gaither website. If you find any discrepancy between the two, the Gaither website takes precedence. UC’s Student Code of Conduct applies to this application process. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top