Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Administration & Staff History ML - Memphis Law Magazine Strategic Plan Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity HomeTIPMPDPPlus ProgramSTAIScholarships Facilities Facilities OverviewVirtual TourFloor PlansPhoto Gallery News & Events Law School NewsOn Legal Grounds BlogML-Memphis Law MagazineEvents CalendarCommunications OfficeProgram Rankings Directions Contact Us Media ResourceGeneral Contact InfoFaculty & Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The CityNeighborhoodsHousingThe Arts SceneSportsThe Food SceneA Music TownDirections and Maps Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home School of Law About US Treasury Visit U.S. TREASURY DEPUTY SECRETARY ADEYEMO VISITS LAW SCHOOL Memphis Law recently welcomed Deputy Secretary of the U.S. Treasury Wally Adeyemo on his visit to Memphis to highlight how Memphis and Shelby County were successful examples of utilizing Emergency Rental Assistance Programs. The law school was one of the first in the country to take on the eviction crisis at the beginning of the pandemic and helped co-found the Eviction Settlement Program in 2020, alongside many of the partners attending the event with the Deputy Secretary. Adeyemo had high praise for both governments for bringing multiple groups together to make sure people stayed safely housed during the pandemic. “Ultimately the resources of the plan were intended to make sure that we were able to unlock the potential of American communities to solve the challenges of the pandemic,” he said. “That is exactly what has happened here in Memphis and Shelby County.” He noted that millions of dollars have been distributed in Memphis providing more than 16,000 payments to families in need. “Memphis and Shelby County’s program is a story about a community working to use its rental assistance dollars as effectively as possible to achieve real results for families,” said Deputy Secretary Adeyemo. “The way the program has integrated with the local courts system to divert unnecessary evictions by giving those facing an eviction the opportunity access ERA and providing free legal services is a model for the rest of the country.” In addition to his remarks in the law school's Fourth Floor Scenic Reading Room, the Deputy Secretary took the time to meet exclusively with law students involved in the Eviction Settlement Program. Six Memphis Law students discussed their work with the Deputy Secretary in the law school's Legal Clinic and several other Memphis Law students and representatives took part in an extended Roundtable discussion with the Deputy Secretary and a variety of Memphis and Shelby County government officials, community leaders, and ERA program participants. "I am immensely proud of the work done by our law school faculty, staff and students in this matter," said Dean Katharine Schaffzin. "We were able to help support families in Memphis by helping co-found the Eviction Settlement Program in 2020, alongside many of our partners here today, and connect local attorneys with tenants who were in danger of eviction due to financial hardships caused by the pandemic." "Since March of last year alone, Memphis Law students have contributed more than 500 in-court work hours as program outreach liaisons and in the structured observation of approximately 4,500 eviction cases in Shelby County General Sessions Court." In his remarks, the Deputy Secretary emphasized that Treasury continues to urge states and localities to dedicate a portion of their money from the State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds—a $350 billion program under the American Rescue Plan—to continue to fund rental assistance, other eviction prevention programs, and expand the availability of affordable housing. Congress and Treasury gave states and localities significant flexibility over the use of these funds so they can prioritize the areas of greatest need in their communities, and Treasury has already seen many use these funds for housing programs and projects nationwide. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.