Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Multicultural Student Affairs Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Tutor Funding Scholarships About Mission, Vision, and Goals Staff Culture Centers Work for MSA Organizational Chart Students Current Students Future Students Campus Resources Meet Our Students DACA/Undocumented Student Resources Get Involved Multicultural Student Organizations Promote an Event in MSA and at the MU Multicultural Center Events Calendar Men of Color Empowerment Summit Multicultural Student Leadership Council Funding Application The Hype The Hype (Student Blog) Submission Guidelines Scholarship Programs Academic Program for Excellence George Washington Carver Program Multicultural Vision Program Scholarship Appeal Information 2022-2023 Multicultural Student Scholarships Cargill thrive Program Faculty and Staff Multicultural Student Services Regional Conference The Spark: Faculty and Staff Training Jump into leadership; as a scholar, it's your responsibility 1 Find strength in your community. 2 Find purpose through leadership. 3 Jump into leadership; as a scholar, it's your responsibility 4 Engage in community, dialogue and conversation to build self-understanding 5 Shape your community through civic engagement. 6 Self-care means valuing your own well-being. @ISU_MSA on Instagram MSA's Mission The Office of Multicultural Student Affairs (MSA) supports and empowers Iowa State University's students who self-identify as African American, Asian, Pacific Islander, Desi American, Latinx, Native American/Alaskan Native or Multiracial, and advocates for their holistic development across the University. From May 16 through August 12, The Office of Multicultural Student Affairs is open Monday - Friday from 7:30a - 4:00p. Zakiya Johnson's Experience at Iowa State When looking back at her high school experience, Zakiya Johnson can only describe it as being “okay.” She says that being one of the only Black women in her grade made it hard to feel comfortable and connected with the peers around her. That is why she was excited for a change of pace and scenery when considering college. Johnson is a junior at Iowa State majoring in psychology and she chose this institution because she was offered the George Washington Carver (GWC) scholarship. She also liked how strong the study abroad programs were at Iowa State. Read More Student Stories on The Hype Dean of Students Office Multicultural Student Affairs 2080 Student Services Building Ames IA 50011-2224 omsa@iastate.edu 515-294-6338 phone 515-294-6397 fax Facebook @ISU_MSA @isu_msa Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information