Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Libraries HOME Academics Libraries In This Section Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising With nearly 3 million volumes housed in multiple repositories, Boston College’s libraries are at the heart of our University. They are where you can find the latest research or discover a rare book, from a quiet carrel or the convenience of your tablet. BC Libraries Ask A Librarian Hours O’Neill Library Our main research library has more than 1,400 seats available, along with collaborative study spaces, lounges, galleries, and group study rooms. O'Neill is also home to the Connors Family Learning Center and the Technology Support Center. Have a research question? Reference help is available in person or online 24/7. Bapst Library Regularly cited as one of the most beautiful libraries in the world, Bapst offers 400 quiet study spaces in a combination of individual carrels and tables. More than 51,000 volumes on art, architecture, museum studies, and photography are housed in our original campus library. Burns Library Our University’s rare books and special collections, including the largest and most comprehensive Irish collection in the United States, are housed in Burns Library. Students and scholars can access original materials from saints and Nobel laureates, surrounded by notable art and dramatic stained-glass windows. Educational Resource Center The ERC meets the specialized resource needs of the Lynch School of Education and Human Development, with an emphasis on learning in K-12 classrooms. An interactive technology room and 50-seat multimedia classroom offer the latest classroom innovations for projects and lesson plans. Law Library The Law Library supports legal research instruction, scholarship, and teaching, with extensive access to all essential databases. The Daniel R. Coquillette Rare Book Room houses the Library’s collection of old and rare law books and manuscripts, including works by and about St. Thomas More. O’Connor Library Housed in Weston Observatory and accessible by appointment, the O’Connor Library contains a specialized collection of earth sciences monographs, periodicals, and maps, particularly in the areas of seismology, geology, and geophysics. Social Work Library The Social Work Library supports the teaching and research needs of the Boston College School of Social Work. Students can access group study spaces, charging stations, and a technology lab in McGuinn Hall. Theology and Ministry Library Our 250,000-volume collection contains resources on biblical studies, Catholic theology, canon law, and Jesuitica. The atrium gallery showcases distinctive exhibits and STM thesis or dissertation students can reserve private study carrels. eScholarship@BC Get more reach for your research with this open access repository of scholarly resources. Open Access Resource Archive The Open Access Resource Archive is an invaluable portal to dozens of free online resources worldwide. Exhibits Genius of Genre: The Pen Names and Personas of Flann O'Brien Flann the novelist. Myles the columnist. Brother Barnabas the student. Brian O’Nolan (1911-1966) wrote in many genres under many guises, in both English and Irish, confounding contemporaries with his incomparable genius and satirical wit. Using original manuscripts, letters, books, and artifacts from Burns Library’s unrivaled collection of O’Nolan’s papers and personal library, this exhibit unmasks the most enigmatic and elusive literary figure to emerge from 20th-century Ireland next to James Joyce. academic tools Academic Calendar Course Catalog Library Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College