Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Inclusive Teaching Learning Collaborative News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Creating a Brown University Syllabus The course syllabus is the primary document through which you communicate to students your course goals, expectations, and assessment/evaluation criteria. Research on teaching and learning has consistently shown that communicating in detail about these aspects of your course -- at the beginning and throughout the term, through both a written syllabus and verbal explanations -- helps students succeed and can help you avoid misunderstandings and grade challenges later in the term. In addition to clarity of expectations, a welcoming tone is important to help communicate the positive learning environment you want to create in your course. For specific suggestions and Brown examples about ways to develop a learner-centered syllabus, please see this Sheridan newsletter on Invitational Syllabi. Sample Brown University Syllabi Undergraduate Courses Graduate Courses ENGL1030A: The Thoughtful Generalist (fully online) POLS 2210: Governing Federated Systems BIOL 092A/SCSO 0700A: Re-thinking Controversies in Medicine and Public Health PHP 1510/2510: Principles of Biostatistics and Data Analysis NEUR 1040: Introduction to Neurogenetics ENGN 2991: Characterizing Nanomaterial Structure MES 1999E: Displacement and Refugees in the Middle East (a GELT Program class) SYR 2710: Babylonian Astronomy ENGN 1510: Nanoengineering and Nanomedicine POLS 1824: The Politics of Race and the Criminal Justice System (a WRIT course) Basic elements of a Brown University syllabus include: Course Information Course title and number Meeting times Classroom location Website URL, use of Canvas Prerequisites Instructor Information First and last name with title Office location and hours Preferred contact (e.g., phone number, email address) Course Description General Orientation to the Course & Course Goals (Required) Note: Use the course description to provide a brief introduction to the course and clarify the broad appeal of your course to students. Think about why your course might be broadly appealing or relevant to a student's future education, career, goals, or personal growth. Some instructors do this by beginning their course descriptions with major themes or big questions (Bain, 2004). Learning goals are the intended purposes and desired achievements of a particular course, which generally identify the knowledge, skills, and capacities you hope a student will achieve. All Brown syllabi must identify goals that are in alignment with the in- and out-of-class learning activities required of the class. Learning Activities, Assessments, and Allocation (Required) All Brown syllabi must identify all work required or recommended of students in class (e.g., lecture, lab, discussion, studio work) and out-of-class (e.g., reading, problem sets, research project, papers, field trip, artistic or creative work), with a reasonable estimation of time needed to complete them. Time estimated to complete activities and assessments should total at least 180 hours over the term for a full-credit course. Possible approaches to estimating this time include: making a reasonable estimate yourself. Rice University's Center for Teaching Excellence has compiled a research-based estimator for reading- and writing-related assignments, which can serve as a useful starting point for some classes. completing the task (e.g., reading a journal article) yourself and assuming that students will require 3-4 times as long to complete it (Carnegie Mellon's Eberly Center for Teaching and Learning). gathering feedback from students on how long it takes them to complete various components of the course. Prerequisites, if applicable Writing Requirement (Optional) If a course has been approved to fulfill the writing requirement, the syllabus should indicate a statement such as the following: Because this is a WRIT-designated course, you will be required to complete a minimum of two written assignments. You will receive substantive feedback on your writing, which you will use to help you revise your work or to complete subsequent writing assignments. Fully Online Courses (Required if fully online) Fully Online courses must meet the following criteria, per the U.S. Department of Education’s guidelines for distance education issued in July 2021: 1. The syllabus should identify regular opportunities during the term for students to engage in two or more substantive interaction activities, initiated by instructors, drawn from this list: Direct instruction (e.g., recorded presentations, synchronous Zoom lectures or discussions) Assessment with feedback that is provided by the course instructional team (e.g., papers, projects, tests, quizzes, or homework) Opportunities for students to ask questions (e.g., regularly scheduled office hours, invitation in a syllabus to email questions with noted response time) Group discussions (e.g., Canvas, synchronous) [For examples, please see Professor Beth Taylor's syllabus for "The Thoughtful Generalist Online" (linked above). This class has 4 essays with required drafts (item 2), several required conferences (item 3), and several scheduled Canvas discussions (item 4).] 2. The syllabus should identify at least one way that instructors are attuned to student participation and performance, and support is offered when needed. Although possible demonstrations could go beyond this list, common examples include: Participation in synchronous class sessions is detailed, including how a student might get midway feedback about their performance Student activity on course websites or materials is noted (e.g., weekly discussion posts), including how a student might get periodic feedback about their performance Instructors evaluate and give feedback on assignments and assessments For fully asynchronous courses, the syllabus would note a schedule where an instructor would check in with a student to discuss progress in the course [For examples, please see Professor Beth Taylor's syllabus for "The Thoughtful Generalist Online" (linked above). The syllabus notes, “Regular attendance and active contribution to discussions and revision workshops are required, and will count significantly toward a satisfactory final grade.” The course has several required conferences to give feedback (item 2). The course has four essays with required drafts (item 3), and the course has several required conferences (item 4).] Academic Support Accessibility and Accommodations Statement (Required) All Brown syllabi should include the following statement, to enable all students' full participation in your class: Accessibility and Accommodations Statement Brown University is committed to full inclusion of all students. Please inform me early in the term if you may require accommodations or modification of any of course procedures. You may speak with me after class, during office hours, or by appointment. If you need accommodations around online learning or in classroom accommodations, please be sure to reach out to Student Accessibility Services (SAS) for their assistance ([email protected], 401-863-9588). Undergraduates in need of short-term academic advice or support can contact an academic dean in the College by emailing [email protected]. Graduate students may contact one of the deans in the Graduate School by emailing [email protected]. Campus resources (Optional) You may wish to list other Brown learning support resources, to support the diversity of student learners in your class. Student Support Services Deans can be a helpful resource to discuss personal, family or health-related concerns, as well as a potential academic and personal plan. They are available for same-day consult and/or scheduled appointment. A list of other resources can be found here. Inclusion (Optional) Some instructors add diversity and inclusion statements to create an invitational tone, signal that difference in intellectual exchange is valued, or communicate awareness of current campus conversations surrounding diversity. Multiple examples can be found here, and an optional statement specifically aimed at inclusion for International and Multilingual Students is below: Multilingual Students “Brown welcomes students from around the country and the world, and their unique perspectives enrich our learning community. To support students whose primary language is not English, an array of English support services are available on campus including language and culture workshops and individual appointments. For more information, contact [email protected] or (401) 863-5672.” Course Materials Books, supplies, and materials (Required) Syllabi must list the estimated cost of required learning resources (per the federal Higher Education Opportunity Act). For undergraduate course syllabi, optional language to address concerns about expenses is the following: Books, Supplies, and Materials If your Brown undergraduate financial aid package includes the Book/Course Material Support Pilot Program (BCMS), concerns or questions about the cost of books and course materials for this or any other Brown course (including RISD courses via cross-registration) can be addressed to [email protected]. For all other concerns related to non-tuition course-related expenses, whether or not your Brown undergraduate financial aid package includes BCMS, please visit the Academic Emergency Fund in E-GAP (within the umbrella of "E-Gap Funds" in UFunds) to determine options for financing these costs, while ensuring your privacy. Electronic Resources (Optional) Optional syllabus statements include the following: Class Recording and Distribution of Course Materials I would like to record our discussion because some students may be in different time zones, have poor internet connections, or have health issues. This means that we will record all classes to make them available to all students that are enrolled but cannot be present. If you have questions or concerns about this protocol, please contact me so that we can talk through those to also ensure your full participation in this course. Lectures and other course materials are copyrighted. Students are prohibited from reproducing, making copies, publicly displaying, selling, or otherwise distributing the recordings or transcripts of the materials. The only exception is that students with disabilities may have the right to record for their private use if that method is determined to be a reasonable accommodation by Student Accessibility Services. Disregard of the University's copyright policy and federal copyright law is a Student Code of Conduct violation. Use of Technology to Support Your Learning in This Course This course will use the following technological platforms: [Google Drive, Canvas, Ed Discussions, etc.]. I am committed to ensuring access to online course resources by students. If you have any concerns or questions about access or the privacy of any of these platforms, please reach out to me. The IT Service Center (https://it.brown.edu/get-help) provides many IT Services including remote assistance, phones, tickets, and chat. Please also see the Online and Hybrid Learning Student Guide. Supplementary Readings (Optional) Assessment (Required) Method by which students will be evaluated and receive feedback on their learning. What types of assessment--papers, presentations, problem sets, projects, exams, etc. How will the final grade be determined, and in particular, what will be the weight given to each assessment? If a relatively large percentage of the final grade is devoted to a final "course paper," or project then the syllabus should typically indicate interim assessments or feedback opportunities a student can expect on the paper or project during the course of the semester. Sheridan resources on feedback, grading, and assessments can be found here. Instructors are expected to make reasonable accommodations for students who cannot take a quiz or exam, including final exams, on the scheduled date due to a religious observance. It is helpful to include notification of this policy on the syllabus because students must inform instructors of any conflicts within the first four weeks of the semester, or as soon as possible after the exam date is announced (whichever is earliest). Attendance and lateness Class participation If participation is greater than 15% of the final grade (20% for graduate-level courses), the syllabus should describe how the assessment is determined. This could be in the form of a rubric or general guidelines for what constitutes exemplary, acceptable, and non-acceptable participation. While desirable in all cases, if participation constitutes 15% or less of the final grade for undergraduates (20% for graduate-level courses), the syllabus need not detail this information. Suggestions for assessment of participation can be found here. Missed exams or assignments (including late assignments) Lab safety/health Academic integrity For undergraduate students, a concise statement to emphasize the importance of academic integrity is a useful addition to the syllabus: "A student’s name on any exercise (e.g., a theme, report, notebook, performance, computer program, course paper, quiz, or examination) is regarded as assurance that the exercise is the result of the student’s own thoughts and study, stated in his or her own words, and produced without assistance, except as quotation marks, references, and footnotes acknowledge the use of printed sources or other outside help." (Academic Code, p. 5) For graduate students, please see the Academic Code, Graduate Student edition. Guidelines for discussion (optional) Especially in discussion-based classrooms, syllabus statements can be useful to help create an atmosphere of mutual respect and collective inquiry. Course Calendar/Outline Daily/weekly schedule Due dates for drafts and major assignments Dates for quizzes, tests, exams, and required special events These headings have been adapted from Howard B. Altman and William E. Cashin, "Writing a Syllabus," IDEA Paper No. 27. Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Inclusive Teaching The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top