Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Academics People Research & Innovation News Contact Academics Bioengineering Bioengineers apply engineering principles to the entire body. From investigating the physiologic behavior of single cells, designing implants using biomaterials, to developing models for studying diseases, among others, Bioengineers aim to understand and solve human medical problems and develop technology to solve these problems. Collaboration comprises a key component for bioengineers as they work with physicians towards the advancement of medical technology. This collaborative approach aids in the way they approach unsolved problems in understanding and treating disease. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that growth, a projected 4% from 2018 to 2028, in the bioengineering field will continue to surpass average growth in professions. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that growth in the bioengineering field will continue to surpass average growth in professions. Career opportunities for bioengineers include research and teaching in academia, entrepreneurship, and advising on intellectual property. Many graduates use a B.S. degree in Bioengineering as a stepping stone towards medical, dental, pharmacy, or law school. Employment opportunities are also available in independent research laboratories, hospitals, and federal agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration or the National Institutes of Health. Undergraduate Studies Engineering Freshmen at Clemson begin in the general engineering program to explore diverse disciplines. After deciding on bioengineering, classes gear more towards a combination of engineering and life sciences. Students are encouraged to get involved in research projects early on, as this forms a solid base for future career opportunities. Curriculum Research Study Abroad Connect Graduate Studies Clemson Bioengineering offers traditional B.S., M.S., MENG, and Ph.D. programs. Students also have the opportunity to apply the credits of Undergraduate and Graduate courses to complete a combined B.S. to Graduate degree in less time. For those who wish to receive additional skills, we offer graduate certificates in Medical Device Recycling and Reprocessing and on Biomedical Entrepreneurship coupled with regulatory science that allows participants to gain a competitive edge in the Medical Device Industry. B.S. to Graduate Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificate Academics B.S. Program B.S. to M.S. Program Graduate Program Graduate Certificate Undergraduate Certificate Undergraduate Research TIGE – The Citadel and Clemson University Pre-College Opportunities Study Abroad Student Departmental Awards Career Resources Departmental Forms Copyright © Clemson University Department of Bioengineering | 301 Rhodes Research Center, Clemson, SC 29634-0905 (864) 656-3051 | Email Us