Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering University Communications Home Who We Are What We Do Our Work Start a Project Policies & Resources Site Navigation Home Who We Are University Communications Staff What We Do Our Work Start a Project Policies & Resources Commercial Photography or Filming As a higher education institution dedicated to educating its students in a residential setting, Brown University rarely permits the use of its campus or facilities for commercial filming or photography. Only in exceptional cases will such requests be granted when it is clear that doing so will not disrupt the activities or operations of the University, and will not jeopardize the privacy of members of our campus community. Commercial photography is defined as the capture of still or motion images on or in a Brown University property for the purpose of using that space as a location only, with no intent to convey a Brown activity or use. As such, commercial photography, still and/or motion, is not permitted on the Brown campus without prior written consent. Filming or image capture for the purpose of news reporting about Brown is distinct and covered separately by the University's Access to Campus policy for news media. These space requests must be made by contacting the Office of Event and Conference Services in the Department of Facilities Management whose staff will consult with the Office of University Communications regarding the use. Granted requests will be subject to the following: space rental and cancelations fees, equipment rental, indemnification agreements and insurance waivers, and other associated costs. Agreement with Brown’s Name Use Policy and other activity-specific policies also will be required. Contact Office of University Event & Conference Services Brown University Conferences & Event Support: Phone: (401) 863-3100 Fax: (401) 863-1943 Distributing Commercial Images Commercial uses of campus images in any form, including but not limited to advertising and merchandising, require prior consent of the University. The Associate Vice President for Marketing Communications in the Office of University Communications reviews all commercial use requests. Contact: Office of University Communications Brown University Phone: (401) 863-2453 Office Hours: 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Office of University Communications Office of University Communications Brown University Box 1920 South Street Landing, Floor 5 350 Eddy Street Providence, RI 02903 Phone: 401-863-6262 Email [email protected] Email media_relations @brown.edu Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top