Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research DEI Initiatives Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Centers Center for Applied Psychological Research Gambling Clinic Psychological Services Center Institute for Intelligence Systems Take Action Psychology Advanced Degrees Academic Advising & Resource Center (AARC) The Psychological Services Center Teaching Take-Out Facebook Home Department of Psychology Centers Centers Centers in the Department of Psychology exist for the purpose of enriching the lives of those on campus, in the Memphis community and beyond. From helping someone struggling with a gambling problem to advancing the capabilities of intelligence systems, the work accomplished in these centers has had a positive effect on hundreds of individuals and families over several decades. Center for Applied Psychological Research (CAPR) Founded in 1984, CAPR is one of the original Tennessee Centers of Excellence. In 1988 the Center was designated as an Accomplished Center of Excellence in recognition of the consistently high quality research, teaching and service. The original CAPR proposal set the following three goals: to achieve national prominence in the application of psychological knowledge to individual and social problems to increase the level of extramural funding of the Department of Psychology in order to facilitate research and training to increase the number of trained psychologists able to apply relevant knowledge to individual and social problems In its 31 years of existence CAPR has far exceeded all benchmarks set for its performance. Faculty have expended millions of dollars in extramural funding, published thousands of scholarly works, been elected or appointed to many professional offices and won numerous national and local awards. For more information "Click Here" Gambling Clinic Since 1997 the Gambling Clinic has helped hundreds of individuals from around the country gain control of their gambling. Our work is based on comprehensive research performed by the Clinic and by research teams from around the world. The Gambling Clinic was selected as the gambling treatment facility for the Tennessee Department of Health. If you are interested in having someone talk about gambling to your group or attend a health fair or other community event, please let us know. If you have questions or would like to set up an appointment for counseling, contact us. Location/Hours Psychology Building Psychological Services Center, Room 126 400 Innovation Drive (one block south of Central Avenue) 9 a.m. until 9 p.m. Monday through Thursday 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. Friday The Clinic is usually open even when University classes are not in session. 901.678.7867(STOP) gambling@memphis.edu Facebook Twitter@GamblingClinic https://www.memphis.edu/gamblingclinic/ You will receive confidential treatment that is suited to your particular needs. Whether your goal is to gamble less, gamble differently or to completely stop gambling, we will help you achieve that goal. Treatment is typically five to seven one-hour sessions. Cost is $150; however, no one is turned away because of inability to pay. Psychological Services Center The Psychological Services Center (PSC) is a community clinic that provides affordable therapy and psychological evaluation services to children, adolescents, adults, and families with diverse backgrounds in the greater Memphis metropolitan area. Our mission includes Providing affordable outpatient services. Training graduate students to become competent psychologists. Promoting research. Our Address: Psychological Services Center Department of Psychology The University of Memphis Psychology Building Room 126 400 Innovation Drive Memphis, TN 38152-6400 Our phone number: 901.678.2147 Our service hours starting September 7, 2021: Monday – Thursday 9:00 AM to 8:00 PM Friday 9:00 AM to 4:30 PM Our Services The PSC provides individual treatment for children, adolescents, an adults dealing with interpersonal difficulties, grief, stress, depression, anxiety, trauma, and other mental health symptoms. We also provide family therapy, brief parent consultations regarding child behavioral concerns. Last, we also provide interventions to change unhelpful habits (e.g., smoking, substance use, gambling) and manage weight, sleep problems, and chronic pain, among others. The PSC also provides academic evaluations for specific concerns (e.g., reading and math fluency), comprehensive evaluations to detect disabilities (e.g., dyslexia) and neurodevelopmental disorders (e.g., ADHD, autism spectrum disorder), and optional evaluations to determine eligibility for an optional school in Shelby County Schools. For more information, go to the PSC website at: www.memphis.edu/psychology/centers/psc.php Institute for Intelligent Systems The Institute for Intelligent Systems (IIS) is an interdisciplinary enterprise comprised of researchers and students from the fields of cognitive psychology, biology, computer science, mathematics, physics, neuroscience, education, linguistics, philosophy, anthropology, engineering, business and communication sciences and disorders. The IIS is dedicated to advancing the state of knowledge and capabilities of intelligent systems, including psychological, biological and artificial systems. Intelligent systems differ from conventional technologies in that they are fast, dynamic, flexible and adaptive. Researchers in the IIS have developed technologies in the cutting-edge areas of cognitive science, artificial intelligence, complex dynamic systems, neural networks, evolutionary modeling, massively parallel systems and biological systems. The IIS has received approximately $30 million in external funding over the last decade and has partnered with numerous universities and corporations. Researchers affiliated with the IIS have received funding from the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the Institute of Education Sciences and numerous other agencies and corporate partners. In 2007 the IIS won the prestigious Academic Excellence Award from the Tennessee Board of Regents. Talks The Cognitive Science Seminar began in 1985 and is now course number 7514/8514, which is cross listed in Psychology, Computer Science and Philosophy. Each semester the seminar focuses on a different topic in Cognitive Science. Public talks take place every week during the semester at 4 p.m. on Wednesdays. The Cognitive Brown Bag is the primary meeting of the Cognitive are of the Department of Psychology. The meeting takes place at noon during the semester. The Computer Science Colloquium is held on most Friday afternoons during the spring and fall semesters. These talks involve lectures on Computer Science topics given by a variety of people, including University of Memphis faculty, visiting faculty from other schools, graduate students and members of industry. Projects For a list of current projects click here. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/15/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.