Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Southeast Transportation Workforce Center About Education Private Sector Public Sector Focus Areas Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact PreviousNext Take Action Choosing Transportation Summit Information Follow SETWC Online FacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Southeast Transportation Workforce Center Southeast Transportation Workforce Center 2022 Choosing Transportation Summit Download the agenda here. Download the speaker bios here. THANK YOU TO OUR SPONSORS AND PARTNERS! Transportation Workforce Playbooks Now Available! SETWC and numerous partners have developed two transportation workforce focused playbooks. The Women in Transportation Playbook highlights best practices and strategies for increasing the number of women pursuing transportation professions. The T-STEM Academy Playbook showcases the T-STEM Academy at East High School and describes the process and key elements that have led to the programs launch and success over a very short period of time. Thank you to all of our industry, education, and community partners! Download your copy today by clicking on the images below! These documents are disseminated under the sponsorship of the U.S. Department of Transportation in the interest of information exchange under cooperative agreement number DTFH6114H00025. The U.S. Government assumes no liability for the use of the information contained in this document. This material does not constitute a standard, specification, or regulation. The U.S. Government does not endorse products or manufacturers. Trademarks or manufacturers' names appear in this material only because they are considered essential to the objective of the document. They are included for informational purposes only and are not intended to reflect a preference, approval, or endorsement of any one product or entity. Transportation Spotlights SETWC has developed a series of profiles to help students and prospective workers learn more about transportation careers. These engaging, high-interest materials showcase transportation professionals from a variety of occupations along different points of their career paths. Check them out below! Catalina Echeverri, Project Manager, Gannett Fleming, Inc. Liesel Goethert, Senior Transportation Planner, KCI Technologies, Inc. Bernadette Gray, Managing Director, Freight Analysis, FedEx Freight Steve Allen, Director, Strategic Transportation Investments Division, Tennessee Department of Transportation Victoria McDaniel, Associate, Logistics Client & Talent Solutions, Vaco Dr. Dongmei "Maggie" Lin, Transportation Engineer, DKS Associates Lisa Dunn, Program Monitor Supervisor, Tennessee Department of Transportation Jeffrey J. P. Land, Attorney, Jeffrey J.P. Land Attorney at Law Jamey Kitlinski, Administrative Assistant to the Managing Director, Harrisburg District Operations, FedEx Freight Virginia Epperly, PE, Complex Structures Engineer, Virginia Department of Transportation Michael Rebick, PE, ITS Project Engineer, TRC Engineers Richard Mallory, Account Executive, Mallory Alexander International Logistics Jameo D. Pollock, MEd, Statewide Technical Training Manager, Virginia Department of Transportation JaMichael Smith, Commercial Operations Analyst, MARS Petcare, Inc. Patrick Son, Managing Director, National Operations Center of Excellence Keith Williams, PE, PTOE, District Traffic Engineer, Pennsylvania Department of Transportation Katie Blose, Regional Safety and Compliance Manager, DBi Services, LCC Chelsea S. Jackson, Core Development Program Business Associate, Virginia Department of Transportation Jessi Jones, Cargo Specialist Supervisor-OTR, Intermodal Cartage Company Kayla Holcomb, Transportation Operations Specialist, Gannett Fleming Doreen Ng-Sui-Hing, EIT, District Project Controls Engineer, Virginia Department of Transportation Greg Dotson, Engineering Manager, Neel Schaffer, Inc. Donna Mooney, Vice President of HR, Titan Transfer Jason McCartney, Senior Transportation Operations Engineer, Gannett Fleming Janet Luessenheide, Traffic Engineer Technician, City of Overland Park, Kansas Paul Young, Director, Division of Housing and Community Development for the City of Memphis Tony Kratofil, Metro Region Engineer, Michigan's Department of Transportation Calvin Abram, Office of Community Transportation, Tennessee Department of Transportation Pete Reddan, Assistant Chief of Instruction, CTI Professional Flight Training Click here for information on how to get involved! This document will explain how to get started on your own transportation spotlight, how to nominate the next spotlight, or help you explain the next steps to your colleagues. Please email Meredith.Powers@memphis.edu with any questions. National Transportation Career Pathways Initiative The National Network for the Transportation Workforce (NNTW) is undertaking an FHWA-sponsored National Transportation Career Pathways Initiative (NTCPI) to address workforce challenges related to the limited pipeline of potential workers, evolving job requirements, and poor visibility and understanding of transportation career pathways. The initiative focuses on priority occupations in the following five areas: Engineering, Environment, Operations, Planning, and Safety. The NTCPI project includes identification of priority occupations, skill and competency requirements, and available training or education programs followed by development of career pathways and demonstration program plans to address workforce challenges in priority occupations within each focus area. SETWC is leading the NTCPI Operations focus, and has formed a Discipline Working Group of industry experts to inform the initiative. The list of priority occupations can be viewed here. Review findings from the national stakeholder survey here. All transportation operations stakeholders also have the opportunity to review the resulting competency models and provide feedback. Review the year 1 executive summary and data here. Learn more about this national initiative here! SETWC and the National Network for Transportation Workforce Who We Are The University of Memphis (UofM) is the home of the Southeast Transportation Workforce Center (SETWC) and is part of the National Network for Transportation Workforce. The national network was established in 2014 through funding from the US Department of Transportation (US DOT) Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). The program included 5 regional centers hosted at the UofM, the University of Vermont, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Montana State University and California State University- Long Beach. The network structure allows sharing of best practices and leveraging of resources across the nation to improve transportation workforce outcomes. Vision, Mission & Goals The vision of SETWC is that the work of the center in concert with regional partners will lead to a right-sized, career-ready transportation workforce being produced in the southeast region. The mission of SETWC is to coordinate existing regionally based programs, plans, and processes and to strategically create partnerships to ensure that students and persons seeking workforce reentry, career transition, or career advancement are aware of opportunities, required education, skills, training, and ladders to success within the regional transportation workforce. The goals of SETWC include: Identify regional transportation job needs and priorities Catalog existing training programs from K-12 through professional development Identify education and training gaps Develop partnerships and initiatives to bridge identified gaps Fully engage regional stakeholders to showcase successful programs and practices and to increase impact in the southeast region Broad Regional Scope, Unique National Expertise SETWC serves a 12-state region in the southeastern United States as well as Puerto Rico. While the center addresses the broad goals of transportation workforce development throughout the region, it also focuses on the following areas of national expertise: Diversity (particularly women in transportation) Freight (including rail, truck, warehousing and logistics) Transportation operations. For a printable version of our fact sheet, please click here. This material is based upon work supported by the Federal Highway Administration under Agreement No. DTFH6114H00025 & DTFH6116H00030. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this publication are those of the Author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the view of the Federal Highway Administration. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/20/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.