Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Diversity & Inclusion Menu Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It! Baylor>Diversity & Inclusion>Resources>Campus Diversity Committee Campus Diversity Committee Campus Diversity Committee Statement of Purpose: By its nature, a university reflects unity within diversity. The purpose of the Campus Diversity Committee is to promote diversity as a strength, as a core element in academic excellence, and as a reflection of a caring Christian community. The Campus Diversity Committee, with the support of the Office of the President, seeks to ensure an academic environment that welcomes, recognizes, respects and celebrates the personal heritage of all campus constituents. The Committee should emphasize efforts to strengthen community at Baylor. The Diversity Committee will: Enhance diversity by encouraging and promoting policies, programs, and efforts that recognize, respect and celebrate diversity and community campus-wide throughout the year. Utilize existing venues and create new venues to hear from students, faculty and staff. Recommend and request the assessment strategies of the campus climate for diversity. Establish criteria and review applications for campus diversity initiative grants. Report annually to the Office of the President through the Chief of Staff. Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It!