Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search More sites UM Alumni Association Philanthropic Giving Alumni News Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us Search Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us Virtual Event Library Access the ULearn Digital Library from your office, home or on the go. Explore free master lectures, podcasts, online courses, virtual events, and UM faculty lectures from across campus and distinguished alumni and subject matter experts from around the world. Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series: Finding Ocean-Based Solutions to Climate Crisis A panel of notable alumni experts will share their perspectives on this urgent global crisis, and how we can solve it by working together. Watch Global Networking Night- Own Your Career: Virtual Professional Development and Networking Event Engage with these ’Canes leaders who will share tips, current career trends in the region, and how your University of Miami connection can strengthen your professional brand. Watch Cooking with a ‘Cane: Plates by Lisa, Celebrity Chef Lisa Weintraub Join University of Miami alumna, entrepreneur, and vibe curator Celebrity Chef Lisa as she provides the ’Cane Nation a glimpse into the Plates by Lisa curated food experience Watch ’Cane Conversations: Entrepreneurship Do’s and Donuts Join the Alumni Association on an interactive ’Cane Conversation featuring alumni-owned business, The Salty, on entrepreneurship, marketing, and the small business journey. Watch ’Cane Conversations: Women Who Lead Learn about remarkable alumnae leaders, their secrets to success, how their time at the U shaped their lives, and the importance of giving back. Watch Women of the U: Changing the Rules. Impacting Lives! Knowing the rules of engagement, the state of play, and the lay of the land is key to achieving success in the business world. This discussion will bring together innovative, pioneering entrepreneurial women who are helping to change the rules of play and positively impact lives. Watch ’Cane Conversations: Let’s Taco ‘bout Hospitality The Covid-19 pandemic significantly impacted South Florida’s hospitality industry, learn some tips and tricks for navigating business in ever changing times. Watch Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series Changing the Tune: Reinventing the Music Industry Notable alumni experts from across the industry share their perspectives on this transformation and what the future holds. Watch now ’Cane Conversation: Women in National Security A compelling conversation with alumnae Myrthe Doedens, A.B. ’15, Natalie Szmyd, A.B. ’16, and Sarah Trister A.B. ’05, as they share their experiences as women in national security roles. Watch The Audrey R. Finkelstein UM Experience, Pushing the Envelope: Driving Education in the Future Innovation in education tends to lag behind other areas. In his keynote address, Provost Duerk shares the urgency of continuing to modernize the delivery of instruction. Watch The Audrey R. Finkelstein Experience: Artificial Intelligence and Robots This session explored the work of University of Miami’s RoboCanes lab members within the active research areas of perception, modeling, learning, human-robot interaction, and manipulation. Watch The Audrey R. Finkelstein UM Experience: Women making Film History Explore how women's film pursuits of the past can shed light on some of today’s societal issues and expand our perspective on the complex gender challenges and opportunities playing out in the contemporary media landscape. Watch RESET the Workplace Join Johnny C. Taylor, Jr., B.S.C. ’89, UM Trustee and President and CEO, Society for Human Resource Management, for an in-depth conversation about his Wall Street Journal bestseller, RESET: A Leader’s Guide to Work in an Age of Upheaval. Watch ’Cane Conversations: Small-Business Entrepreneurs A virtual conversation with small business entrepreneurs, featuring area alumnae in the culinary, hospitality, and marketing industries. Watch ’Cane Biz–How to Survive, Thrive, and Grow with the U Join alumni business owners, who share their expertise to help your company survive, thrive, and grow in any environment. Watch ’Cane Conversations: Navigating Business During the Pandemic This conversation features alumni in the technology, marketing, media, real estate, and finance fields, and is moderated by the academic director of Miami Herbert Business School’s OneMBA Global Executive Program. Watch Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series: The Future of the Supreme Court Join us for a panel discussion on the future of the Court, the Constitution, and the potential impact on our democracy. Watch ’Cane Conversations: Human Trafficking- Finding Solutions Experts from the School of Nursing and Health Studies, the Miller School of Medicine's THRIVE Clinic, and Miami Law alumni discuss the strategies you can employ to spot the signs, take preventive steps, and help save lives. Watch The Audrey R. Finkelstein UM Experience: Combatting “Pandemic Brain Fog” This lecture explores the cutting-edge science of mindfulness taking place at the University and highlights the benefits of mindfulness training. Watch Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series: The Role of Media in an Election Year Join us as notable alumni experts from across the communications industry share their perspectives on the media’s role and responsibility covering political campaigns and elections. Watch Women of the U: Winning in the Business of Sports An increasing number of women are breaking barriers on the field and in the boardroom, and our alumnae are leading the way. Join us as we celebrate these Women of the U who know what it takes to win the business of sports. Watch Women of the U: Exemplifying Gratitude and Grace Join our distinguished panel of women to learn what drives their selfless support for those in need and the intrinsic value of sharing your talents with the community. Watch Unsung Heroes of the LGBTQ Movement Learn about the individuals whose valiant efforts helped to shed light on the experiences of the LGBTQ community, which were often erased from history books and records in the last century. Watch Let the Music Play: Music in the Age of COVID-19 Join us for an engaging discussion with music industry leaders as they strive to sustain, transform, and spark innovation within this once-thriving $30-billion industry amid the ongoing pandemic. Watch ‘Cane Conversations: Science Communicators Join your fellow ’Canes for a discussion with science communicators on the importance of diverse voices and culturally-relevant storytelling in STEM, the environment and other scientific topics. Watch Cooking with a ’Cane Learn how to make delicious and healthy meals to stay on track during the upcoming holiday season. Watch ’Cane Conversations: Coral Conservation Experts and alumni from the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science and Chicago’s Shedd Aquarium discuss their efforts to help conserve coral reef ecosystems in the face of a changing climate. Watch ’Cane Conversations: Breaking Boundaries ’Canes Commanding Careers Join your fellow ’Canes for a panel discussion featuring University of Miami alumnae who have triumphed over the challenges they faced in the workforce. Watch In-Home Homecoming Recap While this year’s celebration – our first ever In-Home Homecoming virtual pep rally on October 23 – had a different look and feel, the spirit behind it remained the same. Watch Resilience, Recovery & Renewal Join the Master of Science in Construction Management program for a conversation examining COVID-19's impact on the engineering and construction industry. Watch ’Cane Conversations: Biggest Show Stopper Join industry leaders for a conversation about the worldwide pandemic’s impact on the entertainment business. Watch Women of the U Join us for the first in a series of dialogues with accomplished Women of the U, addressing contemporary issues. Watch Climate Café Grab your favorite beverage and join us for Climate Cafes! Learn about the different facets of climate science happening at the Rosenstiel School. Watch Summer Skill-Up Alumni Webinar Series Join us for a Summer Skill-Up series of career related webinars developed to inspire, motivate, and receive tangible advice from alumni experts in various fields of work. Watch Cooking with a ’Cane Learn to make gourmet dishes and delicious treats in this virtual cooking demonstration series for University of Miami alumni. Watch ’Cane Conversations Conversations with featured alumni from different ’Cane Communities. Watch Coffee with a ’Cane Join us for Coffee With A ’Cane, a digital, fun and informative weekly conversation with innovators and experts from our University community on Facebook Live. Grab your afternoon cafecito and connect with fellow alumni as we explore different topics. Watch The Evolving Workplace Alumni Johnny C. Taylor and Maribel Wadsworth provide insight on navigating the future of the workplace, sustaining employee engagement in a remote reality and attracting and retaining top talent. Watch A Celebration of Freedom The UM Black Alumni Society invites you to celebrate Juneteenth virtually this year with an evening of activities including singing the Black national anthem, black history trivia, and a discussion of African American Independence. Watch Architecture and the Great Confinement: Interview Series U-SoA has initiated a video interview series entitled: Architecture and the Great Confinement. The series aims to promote a global dialogue focused on the recent events surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic and its potential impacts on the world of architecture and the design of future cities. Watch Tecnoglass Lecture Series The Tecnoglass Lecture Series explores practices and works that have a significant effect on the built environment, whether with large infrastructural interventions or small but potentially transformative contributions. Watch Umindfulness Lecture Series UMindfulness offers lecture series and workshops for students, staff, faculty, and alumni of the University of Miami along with the broader South Florida Community to learn about and engage in mindfulness training. Watch Distinguished Leaders Lecture Series The Miami Herbert Business School's Distinguished Leaders Lecture Series brings students, alumni and other members of the UM community together with top business leaders throughout the year. Watch Distinguished Seminar Series The College of Engineering Distinguished Speaker Seminar Series recognizes the research and professional achievement of select faculty and brings them to campus for master lectures. Watch Sea Secrets Offered by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, the Sea Secrets lectures focus on today’s global challenges - from climate change to ocean conservation- and are designed for the non-scientific community. Watch ’Cane Talks ’Cane Talks mark a new tradition of Miami scholars and other leaders sharing their research, work, service, and questions with the larger community as we look toward the University’s centennial just a decade away. Watch Miami Law Explainer Podcast The Miami Law Explainer is a weekly podcast produced by the University of Miami School of Law. Its mission is to highlight the deans, directors, full-time faculty, and clinicians of the school offering opinion and commentary on timely legal news. Listen Distinguished Lecture Series Sylvester’s Distinguished Guest Lecture Series focuses on bringing basic science and clinical researchers together to discuss recent advances in the understanding and treatment of human cancer – a realization of the “bench to bedside” ideal. Watch Digital Presentations Exploring Shipwrecks in the Caribbean An underwater explorer, Frederick “Fritz” Hanselmann is passionate about past civilizations and things that are lost and long-forgotten below the sea’s surface. Hanselmann, lecturer and director of the underwater archaeology and exploration program in the Department of Marine Ecosystems and Society at the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, dives deep into Caribbean waters to study shipwrecks, caves, and submerged prehistoric sites to gain insight into humanity’s past and ultimately better understand who we are. Watch Shark Declines Can Lead to Changes in Reef Fish Body Shapes Scientists studying nearly identical coral reef systems off Australia discovered something unusual on the reefs subjected to nearly exclusive fishing of sharks—fish with significantly smaller eyes and tails. The study is the first field evidence of body shape changes in fish due to human-driven shark declines from overfishing. These findings shed new light on the cascading effects the loss of the ocean’s top predators is having on marine ecosystems. Watch The Business of Aquaculture Daniel Benetti, professor of marine ecosystems at the University of Miami's Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, has pioneered new ways to farm fish—from hatchery to plate—in a sustainable way. Fish, according to Benetti, is the most efficient protein source to feed the world’s growing populations. Watch Study Finds Ecosystem Changes following Loss of Great White Shark A new study has documented unexpected consequences following the decline of great white sharks from a feeding site off South Africa. Researchers found that the disappearance of great whites led to the unique emergence of sevengill sharks, an otherwise kelp-associated apex predator from a different area. Watch Robert Ginsburg Symposium Robert Ginsburg Symposium held on January 11, 2019, at the University of Miami Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science. Watch Building Superior Weather Forecasting Models Researchers at the University of Miami are transforming weather forecasts by creating a seasonal forecasting model that brings together multiple prediction models to produce more reliable forecasts. Watch The University of Miami's Shark Guru From blacktips to bulls, great hammerheads to great whites, and whitetips to tigers, Neil Hammerschlag has been studying sharks for nearly two decades, first becoming captivated by the predators more than 18 years ago, when, as a University of Toronto undergraduate, he interned with a group of California researchers tagging sharks in the Pacific. Watch Fighting Opioid Addiction 174 Americans die of a drug overdose each day. We must bring opioid addiction treatment to where the users are: primary care clinics, emergency rooms, drug courts, syringe exchanges. Watch View all Digital Presentations University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Alumni Association Newman Alumni Center 6200 San Amaro Drive, Suite 200 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2872 305-284-2872 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices