By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Groups & Activities Student Association More from this Section U100 University Union Greek Life Student Organizations Student Association The Student Association (SA) is your undergraduate student government. SA serves as your representative voice and focuses on initiatives to help make your undergraduate experience the best it can be. As the official student governing and advocacy body for Syracuse University and SUNY-ESF undergraduates, the Student Association works with the University's administrators to improve all facets of your undergraduate life and ensure that your concerns are heard. Recent SA initiatives include the first-ever bike share program on campus, increased academic offerings and access to on-campus academic resources, and the “Chat and Dine” program, where students can enjoy a free lunch with their favorite professor or staff member. SA is made up of elected student representatives from each school/college. Students who become members of SA are afforded the opportunity to make a difference in the lives of their peers, while gaining valuable leadership experience. Get involved in SA “Improve the Lives of Students” Follow @oursyracuseu on Instagram for a look at Syracuse University through the eyes of our students. “My biggest piece of advice for any college student is to get involved. Find something you're passionate about, be a part of a student organization, and contribute to something great. For me, that's @SUstudentassociation, the official undergraduate student government at @syracuseu. Last year, I was elected by the student body to be Vice President alongside @ayshaseedat, who serves as the President. Our jobs can be demanding, tiring, and stressful at times but there's nothing we would rather do than serve our students. We are so grateful for the opportunity to create real solutions that improve the lives of students!” -Jane Hong #SyracuseU Related Pages Mission and History of SA The Student Association exists as a right and for the benefit of the student body. Community Engagement Initiatives The Community Engagement Committee seeks to create meaningful engagement in the Syracuse community. Meeting Minutes Can't make it to a meeting? Check out our minutes so you can catch up on what you missed. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy