Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News “You Belong Here”: Class of 2025 Joins Dental School “Family” By Odelia Ghodsizadeh September 1, 2021 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email The 84 women and men of Columbia University College of Dental Medicine’s incoming class gathered on Aug. 20 for the school’s annual White Coat Ceremony, the formal launch of their dental education. The event welcomes new students and delineates the responsibilities of a health care professional. During the ceremony, each student ascends the stage and slides on an embroidered white coat with the assistance of a faculty member. When the donning is complete, the class reads the Oath for the Profession, committing to compassionate and ethical care. Members of the College of Dental Medicine (CDM) community often refer to themselves collectively as a family because of the school’s tight-knit environment. At this year’s ceremony, a typically warm welcome to the CDM family took on added emphasis: Inclusivity was a salient motif in speaker remarks, underscored on several occasions with the affirmation “You belong here.” Students exchange elbow bumps with faculty (photos: Charles Manley) Because of the pandemic, in-person attendance was limited to ceremony participants, with family and friends joining virtually via a live broadcast. As students departed from the stage in their fresh white coats, they traded elbow bumps with faculty, the joy on their faces evident even behind masks. “It’s an exciting time for you to be starting,” Dana Wolf, DMD, MS, senior associate dean for predoctoral academic and student affairs, told the class. “The past year and a half has been extremely difficult. But we have emerged with some positive lessons, and you will be the beneficiaries of those lessons. “We learned, for example, that the remote learning environment offers opportunities for student engagement that were difficult to achieve in large in-person classroom settings. We will continue to utilize these new engaging pedagogic techniques post-pandemic. The Class of 2025 reads the Oath for the Profession “We learned that we need to renew and deepen our commitment to social justice, equity, inclusion, and anti-racism. And we have taken a variety of measures here at CDM to do so. “We learned how strong we can be when we come together as a community.… “Class of 2025, you have a dynamic and challenging four years ahead of you. Throughout your educational journey, CDM faculty, staff, upperclassmen, and administration will be by your side encouraging you, supporting you, and cheering you on. Take advantage of all that CDM has to offer because time goes by quickly, and before you know it, we’ll be gathering again to celebrate your academic achievements at the 2025 graduation ceremony.” About the CDM Class of 2025 The 84 students enrolled were chosen from more than 1,600 applicants. The class is 55% women and 45% men. A quarter of the students belong to underrepresented minority groups. Seven students participated in the Summer Health Professions Enrichment Program. Class members are from 21 U.S. states and two other countries. Class members are alumni of 63 different colleges. Five students have advanced degrees. Related Information Meet Our Team Dana Wolf, DMD Academic Dean for Predoctoral Programs Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top