Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Provost Provost right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet the Provost right arrow down arrow Event Request Form Leadership Committees Next Lives Here Initiatives right arrow down arrow COACHE Textbook Affordability UC Women Lead Program Dual Career Assistance Program Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program Decanal Searches Faculty right arrow down arrow Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure right arrow down arrow eRPT Collective Bargaining Agreement Resources right arrow down arrow Faculty Retention Program Proposal Process right arrow down arrow Distance Learning Programs Adjunct Resources Leaves of Absence Associations right arrow down arrow Latino Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Members Resources Events & Photo Gallery News Emeriti Association right arrow down arrow Membership LGBTQ Faculty and Staff Association Black Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Resources Events and News Committees Photo Gallery The Academy of Fellows - AFTL right arrow down arrow Members, Eligibility & Benefits Journal for Research & Practice in College Teaching Faculty Enrichment Center right arrow down arrow Programming and Resources Colleges and Offices right arrow down arrow Colleges Offices right arrow down arrow Faculty Affairs & Academic Personnel Enrollment Management Graduate School The Office of Institutional Research right arrow down arrow Facts & Dashboards College Financial Reporting Survey Research & Consulting Resources Contact Us UC International IT @ UC Student Affairs Undergraduate Studies right arrow down arrow Affiliated Offices Integrated Core Learning (ICL) General Education Core Contact Us Awards right arrow down arrow All-University Faculty Awards Home » About UC » Office of the Provost » Colleges and Offices » Offices » The Office of Institutional Research » Facts & Dashboards Set Navigation title in component Colleges Offices Faculty Affairs & Academic Personnel Enrollment Management Graduate School The Office of Institutional Research Facts & Dashboards Student Dashboards Faculty & Staff Dashboards Financial Dashboards College Financial Reporting Survey Research & Consulting Resources Contact Us UC International IT @ UC Student Affairs Undergraduate Studies Affiliated Offices Integrated Core Learning (ICL) General Education Core Requirements Definitions History Leadership Career Education Learning Outcomes Contact Us Facts & Dashboards Student Dashboards Faculty & Staff Dashboards Financial Dashboards Student Fact Book The University of Cincinnati Student Fact Book contains a variety of data on the Student population at UC to help answer common questions about the University. Login to Bearcats Landing with your UC Central Login for archived Fact Books. Login for access to the interactive version of the Fact Book to view information at the college level. Enrollment Reports Enrollment Reports have enrollment by college and major for the entire university as of the census day for each term. Login to Bearcats Landing with your UC credentials for archived enrollment reports. Total student enrollment, credit hours, and FTE by College, Program, and Plan reports are available for the three most recent semesters: Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Summer 2021 Retention Rate Reports Fall to Fall Retention for the first-time, full-time degree seeking cohort. Retention rates are displayed by campus and degree level. Login to Bearcats Landing with your UC Central Login for archived Fall Retention Reports and Archived Quarter to Quarter Retention Reports. Clifton Campus Fall to Fall Retention Cohorts 2010-2020 UC Regionals Fall to Fall Retention Cohort 2010-2020 Graduation Rates The graduation rate reports consist of six year graduation rates for Uptown campus students and three year graduation rates for Branch campus students. Graduation rates are displayed by gender and ethnicity. Login to Bearcats Landing with your UC Central Login for archived graduation rates. Clifton Campus Cohort 2015 Regional Campuses Cohort 2018 Baccalaureate Graduation Rates by Financial Aid Received Regional Campus Graduation Rates by Financial Aid Received NCAA Federal Graduation and Graduation Success Rates for Athletes Faculty & Staff Reports Headcount and full-time equivalent (FTE) summary reports of all UC employees by campus, employee type and Standard Occupational Classification Code. Each report contains the university total as well as totals by campus. Login to Bearcats Landing with your UC credentials for archived Employee Population Reports. Employee Headcount Fall 2020 Employee FTE Fall 2020 Common Data Set The Common Data Set (CDS) initiative is a collaborative effort among data providers in the higher education community and publishers as represented by the College Board, Peterson's, and U.S. News & World Report. The combined goal of this collaboration is to improve the quality and accuracy of information provided to all involved in a student's transition into higher education, as well as to reduce the reporting burden on data providers. 2021-2022 Common Data Set 2020-2021 Common Data Set 2019-2020 Common Data Set 2018-2019 Common Data Set 2017-2018 Common Data Set 2016-2017 Common Data Set UC Internal Dashboards Tableau at UC The data analytics and visualization software Tableau is being used at the University of Cincinnati (UC) by various offices, including the Office of Institutional Research. Institutional Research (IR) uses Tableau to create a multitude of dashboards as well as the University Fact Book. To access the Tableau server where the IR reports are housed, you'll go to the Data Analytics website (dataanalytics.uc.edu) and login with your central UC username and password. To view the IR reports, select "Office of the Provost" as the site. To request access, to Institutional Research dashboards, please visit the IR Dashboards page on Bearcats Landing. Frequently Viewed Dashboards Interactive Student Fact Book Retention Dashboards Enrollment Comparison DFW Reports Graduate Program Review Post-Graduation Outcomes Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top