Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu FedEx Institute of Technology About Research Innovation Engagement Emerging Tech Training Tech Transfer Impact Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Training SAFe/Agile Training SAFe for TeamsSAFe Instructor BiosSAFe for ArchitectsImplementing SAFe (SPC)SAFe Lean Portfolio MgmtSAFe Software EngineeringAgile Finance (Pilot Training)Agile Coaching DevSecOps Impactful Training & Speaking Business Architecture Enterprise Business Agility Design Thinking Org Change Mgmt Ethereum Level I: Solidity Microsoft Power BI (FastLane) Mastering DAX in PowerBI Organization and Relationship System Coaching (ORSC) Fundamentals SAS Course Information Intensive VR Workshop Data Science Pgm Language R ImmersionAdvanced RSQL (Basics)SQL (Writing Queries) Foundations of Intermodal Freight CAST Certification FAQs Take Action Emerging Tech Training Research Collaborations News & Impact Distinguished Guests Follow Us FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home FedEx Institute of Technology Training Emerging Technology Training Creating Enterprise-Wide Training Solutions for your Digital Revolution The FedEx Institute of Technology is a nationally recognized leader in technology innovation and workforce development. Leveraging industry best practices and research experts from around the world, we build training programs that solve the big challenges. Our training options are available for all skill levels, include online and in person training, and custom course development for organizations of all sizes. Contact fedex@memphis.edu to develop a workforce solution for your team. Programming Languages Blockchain Training Kickstart your development with asynchronous Enterprise level training with in-depth instruction and training on blockchain concepts and technologies including multiple smart contracts. SAS The University of Memphis-FedEx Institute of Technology and SAS are proud to announce a new partnership to advance data analytics research and training in the MidSouth Region. Intensive VR Workshop In this course you will learn the principles of Virtual Reality (VR) world development, implementation strategies in environments for platforms such as Oculus Rift and HTC Vive, and others. R Immersion The Immersion in R for Data Science, is a 2-day intensive R training program for beginner to intermediate users designed to provide attendees with a comprehensive toolkit for applying R to business intelligence data solutions. Enterprise-wide Foundation Skillset CAST Certification This foundation program covers the foundations of cyber security and cyber security vulnerabilities over a broad scope of topics.. Data Focused In the effort to understand and participate in today's fast-moving business environment, Data Focused is a workshop that achieves rapid development, adoption, transformation, and innovation of data. Digital Transformation PowerBI Make better decisions and provide strategic information to the entire organization with the solutions you build. DevSecOps This workshop is appropriate for anyone wanting to learn more about DevSecOps with a particular focus on technology leaders and thought leaders involved with leading/guiding DevSecOps transformations. SAFe/Agile Training SAFe is the world's leading framework for scaling Agile across the enterprise. Agile methodology assists teams in responding to the unpredictability of constructing software. Team Building/Process Improvement Design Thinking Design thinking is an activity-based training course geared towards solving FedEx "real-world" problems rooted in human empathy and conducted by collaborative multidisciplinary teams. Impactful Training & Speaking Impactful Training & Speaking ignites your ability to influence others with proven training and speaking methods that enhance the transfer of knowledge. Bespoke Training Development The FedEx Institute of Technology can assist your company in building customized training programs to fit your scale and needs. Training programs can offered both in-person or asynchronously. Please contact Rami Lotay (rslotay@memphis.edu) with any questions. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/11/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.