Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts UC, Oyler students partner to tell Lower Price Hill stories DMC project helps create pathway to higher education through CPS partnership By Anne Bowling Email AnneEmail Anne December 20, 2021 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like By Rebecca Schweitzer As a leading urban public university, the University of Cincinnati cultivates opportunities for its students to engage with the community and connect with local neighborhoods. These connections are designed in part to create pathways to higher education that some students in Cincinnati Public Schools might otherwise not have envisioned. In one such collaboration during fall semester, students in UC’s Digital Media Collaborative teamed with students from Oyler School to create a series of short documentaries about life in the community of Lower Price Hill, an urban Appalachian neighborhood located two miles west of downtown Cincinnati. Offered through UC's College of Arts and Sciences, the course grouped students into teams to pursue stories that capture the essence of the community. Some of the films featured Santa Maria, a large non-profit serving the community; Incline Run, showcasing artwork of students from the West Side; a barber shop and its owner off State Street; and a teaching kitchen hosted by BLOC ministries. “There is a need in the community that UC wants to fill,” said UC adjunct professor Frank O’Farrell said, who led the course. Oyler, located in Lower Price Hill, offers a Community Learning Center with medical clinics, food programs and after school programs for students preschool through grade 12. The UC course was initially created as an interdisciplinary collaboration between film studies, Digital Media Collaborative, history, urban design and O’Farrell’s nonprofit group, Fourthwall Youth Studios. Connor Kurek of Oyler School in Lower Price Hill Connor Kurek, who has been working for the Community Learning Center Institute at Oyler for the past year and a half, has found this partnership to be a dream come true for his students. “The more we can close the gap between college and high school, the more Oyler students we'll send to college to succeed,” Kurek said. “Programs and collaborations like this make the prospect of attending college less scary, more achievable and more reachable. "This collaboration between UC and Oyler is also important because it gives my students the chance to experience something they otherwise might not be fully exposed to, therefore planting seeds in them for possible future passions or careers.” Kurek added: “It's raising the bar for a more advanced, engaging and fun education, providing my students with a glimpse into the toughness but also the freedom of a creative college class. And it's important because it gives my students the chance to see that they have something to offer students 4-plus years older than them.” UC students benefit equally from participating in the program, said Abbi Liette, a junior majoring in digital media and film studies. “A lot of the students in our group have some film experience already, and I love that they enjoy it so much they are willing to take even more time out of their day to be a part of this project,” she said. UC junior Abbi Liette participated in the documentary project. "Living in and being a part of the Lower Price Hill community also gives them an inside eye on important stories and what it's really like to be a member of Lower Price Hill. They have a great eye for what some important stories could be, and I hope that being involved pushes them to continue with film.” Liette says she has been inspired by this collaboration, because she has learned more about the Lower Price Hill by telling the stories of individuals who wish to build their community. “This semester hasn’t been just about earning credits and a grade,” Liette said. “But about what we can do as storytellers and film makers to bring attention to the amazing community that is Lower Price Hill.” UC film and media studies student Deja Shanks Deja Shanks, a senior film and media studies student, worked with a group on a film covering Santa Maria Community Services—its financial literacy and high school equivalence courses, and youth addiction resources for local residents. Shanks also worked with a second team focused on Santa Maria’s First Time Mothers and Every Child Succeeds programs. “For me, it is super important to highlight community resources who really take pride in strengthening and positioning their communities for continued success,” Shanks said. “This collaboration means that we get to showcase a resource center like Santa Maria and in return, know that there will be someone who will be affected by our collaboration with them and take steps to either volunteer their time or seek out resources that they probably didn’t know were available.” Featured image at top: UC and Oyler School partnered to document stories of life in Lower Price Hill. Photo/Provided Tags Digital Media Collaborative College of Arts and Sciences Related Stories KNX In Depth: Twitter cracks down on misinformation May 27, 2022 Social media expert Jeffrey Blevins featured guest on live radio show, KNX InDepth. The topic is Twitter and information regulation. Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. 6ABC: Light pollution can interfere with monarch migration May 26, 2022 National media highlight biology research in UC's College of Arts and Sciences that finds light pollution affects the navigation ability of monarch butterflies. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top