COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Accounting, Major MajorAccounting All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Accounting The Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in accounting from WSU's Barton School of Business combines its AACSB-accredited program with the unmatched opportunities for applied learning and internships found in Kansas' largest city. You'll be eligible to compete for some of the state's largest business scholarships. And you can build a professional resume and make the connections that lead to your dream career. Learn how accounting is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Barton School of Business, you must first be admitted to Wichita State and choose accounting as your major. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Business students gain competitive edge Professional Edge is a professional development program free to all undergraduate business majors. You'll learn critical success skills from industry experts, increasing your competitiveness as you enter the job market. Learn more about Professional Edge Curriculum You'll start by developing a solid background in business basics, such as statistics, economics and business software. Then, you'll move on business core courses and accounting courses—from marketing and management to assets and auditing—to prepare you for the Certified Public Accountants (CPA) exam. A minor in Information Systems, designed specifically for current accounting majors, is available to students who want to enhance their information systems and technology expertise. View the curriculum Careers WSU's vast industry connections—and experience-based learning for every major—gives accounting students the chance to grow their professional network, build a resume and earn a paycheck, all while still in school, leading to dream careers as: accountants and auditors credit analysts financial and tax examiners revenue agents Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Accounting (Minor) Economics Economics (Minor) Finance Finance (Minor) Entrepreneurship 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©