Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology School of Computer Science Menu Close About What is Computer Science? Building & Facilities Faculty Hiring Maps and Directions About Atlanta Contact Us Annual Report GT Computing People Faculty Staff PhD Students Academics MS Programs PhD Degree Distance Learning International Study Financial Aid Student Life Career Development Research Research Areas Architecture Databases Information Security Networks Programming Languages & Software Engineering Systems Theory Institutes & Centers Groups & Labs News & Events News Upcoming Events Calendar Lectures Contact Support Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Research Research Areas Architecture The Georgia Tech Computer Architecture group ("Comparch," for short) conducts research that is both diverse and leading edge. We strive to answer questions such as: How can we design future multi- and manycore architectures to have better performance, spend less power, and be easier to program—all at a lower cost? How can we design processors and memory systems for new technologies, especially since the traditional cadence of CMOS scaling is slowing down? How do we restructure the memory hierarchy to meet the demands of “big data” applications such as dynamically changing graphs, machine intelligence, and search? What should be the architectures of future GPUs? How do we help programmers efficiently create and debug their software for parallel architectures? How do we protect computer hardware against snooping attacks? And how do we monitor running programs to prevent attacks and ensure correctness? How to holistically embrace error and unreliability in the computing fabric and design general-purpose approximate computers? How to utilize characteristic of the emerging applications to specialize current and design next generation computing systems? How do we quickly simulate future computer architectures with current computers? Because of this diversity of research topics and the quality of our faculty and students, virtually every top-tier computer architecture conference today has one or more papers from Georgia Tech Comparch. Our funding comes from both government sponsors—such as the National Science Foundation, Air Force Office of Sponsored Research, and Department of Energy—and industry sponsors like IBM, Intel, AMD, Google, Qualcomm, Microsoft, and Samsung. At the undergraduate level, we offer standard courses such as Processor Design and Advanced Computer Architecture. At the graduate level, our classes include High Performance Computer Architecture, Advanced Microarchitecture, Reliability and Security in Computer Architecture, and Alternative Computing Technologies. This listing updates continuously, reflecting the rapidly changing nature of computer architecture. Faculty Tom Conte (professor, schools of Computer Science and Electrical and Computer Engineering) Hyesoon Kim (associate professor, School of Computer Science) Milos Prvulovic (associate professor, School of Computer Science) Moin Qureshi (associate professor, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering) Sudhakar Yalamanchili (professor, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering) Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Computing Resources Office of the Dean Communications Finance Technology Services Organization (TSO) College of Computing Schools School of Computational Science and Engineering School of Computer Science School of Interactive Computing Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Report a Problem Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology