Skip To Main Content Conference Planning & Management Close Search Search the website Open Search Box Open Mobile Menu Close Search Search the website Need to pivot? In Person, Virtual or Hybrid Meetings- We can help you accomplish your goals! Our team has been working tirelessly to serve our clients and partners whether implementing COVID-19 best practices for face to face events- or guiding you through the transformation to a hybrid or online event. 1 2 3 Pause Learn more Let's get together to plan your get together Imagine this - no matter what you need, one contact can make it happen! 1 2 3 Pause Learn more We'll piece together your planning puzzle Lots of moving parts? We can help! 1 2 3 Pause Learn more Explore Big Event? Big Beautiful Campus. Learn more Plan anything. Anytime. Anywhere. Learn more Testimonial The biggest value of working with Conference Planning and Management comes in their expertise with: crowd management, understanding the intended “feel and flow” of an event, budgetary management, spatial considerations, and food and beverage planning. Jacy, Extension and Outreach Annual Conference Thank you! We have also received comments such as “the best North-Central GSA in recent memory” and the “food trucks were awesome”. The conference was a tremendous success because of your assistance, so thank you so much for working with us! Bill, North Central Geological Society Association Thank you for all your TLC and the great time we enjoyed in your beautiful and intriguing area. We were amazed at the facilities, and even got a campus tour in! Your help make the experience a good one. Frederick Fellner, speaker, Shade Tree Short Course Need to pivot? Our team has been working tirelessly to serve our clients and partners whether implementing COVID-19 best practices for face to face events- or guide you through the transformation to a hybrid or online event, so you can move forward and accomplish your goals! Iowa State University 2150 Beardshear Hall Ames, IA 50010-2046 E. registrations@iastate.edu P. 800-262-3804 Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non‑discrimination Policy