Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Accessible Technology Initiative (ATI) Main Navigation Report an ATI issue Instructional Materials Procurement Web Checkpoints & Scans ATI Scanning Tools ATI CSUF ATI Plan 2022-2024 Accessible Technology Initiative Laws and Policies ATI Governance ATI Steering Committee Instructional Materials Accessibility Group Procurement Accessibility Group Web Accessiblity Group ATI FOCUS Instructional Materials Procurement Web ATI Reports Campus Web Accessible Technology Initiative (ATI) The CSU Accessible Technology Initiative (ATI) is the effort by the California State University (CSU) system to ensure that information and communication technology (ICT) is accessible to all students, faculty, staff, and the wider community. ICT includes websites, computer software and hardware, and multimedia such as video. The ATI focuses on three areas: Instructional materials: documents, multimedia, Canvas courses (LMS), etc. Procurement: purchases of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) Web: the CSUF web environment and domain, as well as web-based ICT, including instructional materials The California State University (CSU) is committed to providing a diverse and supportive academic and work environment that facilitates learning, teaching, working and conducting research for all students, employees and visitors. It is CSU policy to ensure that individuals with disabilities shall have equal access to and the opportunity to participate in CSU programs, activities and services. – (E.O. 1111) Request ATI Training Instructional Materials (Accessible Documents) ATI Training Procurement ATI Training Website ATI Training On-Demand Training Document Accessibility WebAIM Document Accessibility Training Quarterly Webinar WebAIM Introductions to Accessibility: Documents & Web Content CSU ATI Policies Executive Order 1111 (E.O. 1111), issued in 2018 (and superseding E.O. 926), articulates the CSU Board of Trustees' Policy on Disability Support and Accommodations. Memorandum March 8, 2021 (PDF) is an update about the Accessible Technology Initiative (ATI). Campus Accessibility Strategy for Online Education (PDF), a letter to CSU Presidents, emphasizes campus responsibilities to address accessibility within their online learning environments. The CSU ATI Accessibility Requirements (CSU log-in required) are the compliance standards used in support of federal and state legislation as well as the CSU Policy; these are a combination of Section 508 and WCAG 2.0. ATI at CSUF Per Coded Memorandum AA-2013-03 , the ATI Steering Committee and its sub-committees and working groups provide governance for the ATI at CSUF. Quarterly tests are conducted on the CSUF web domain using Cyxtera’s Compliance Sheriff Accessibility Module. Additional manual testing is conducted as needed based on the findings. Resources Laws and Policies Office of the Chancellor: Accessible Technology Initiative Information and Technical Assistance on the Americans with Disabilities Act Information and Communication Technology Final Standards and Guidelines DOJ Guidance for Web Accessibility This site is maintained by Division of Information Technology. Last Published 4/26/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact helpdesk@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.