Skip to main content Apply Canvas Map Calendar Library Directory MyUW more_vert more_vert Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search News & Information News & Information News Stories UWT in the News Podcast: Paw'd Defiance Subscribe MyUW Map Tools Happiness at Last April 22, 2022 Live theater returns to UW Tacoma with "The Happiest Song Plays Last," in a collaboration with Tacoma Little Theater and Toy Boat Theatre. (Photo above: Maria-Tania Bandes Becerra Wiengarden, at left, and Jesus Villegas Rivera in a scene from "The Happiest Song Plays Last." Other performers in the cast include Terence Mejos, Shailendra (Shelly) Jain, Katie Jones and Wade Hicks. Image courtesy Tacoma Little Theater.) UW Tacoma, Tacoma Little Theater (TLT) and Toy Boat Theatre have partnered to bring Quiara Alegria Hudes’s play “The Happiest Song Plays Last” to the stage. “This is really exciting because it’s our first collaboration with the Tacoma Little Theater,” said UW Tacoma Assistant Teaching Professor Maria-Tania Bandes Becerra Weingarden. “TLT has been wonderful about creating a place for our students to learn. I once had a conversation with Chris Serface, TLT managing artistic director, about our partnership and asked him what TLT gains from his perspective. He said, ‘TLT is a community theatre, UW Tacoma is part of our community. It is our responsibility to serve that community.’ That commitment has been evident throughout this process.” ——Maria-Tania Bandes Becerra Weingarden Assistant Teaching Professor “The Happiest Song Plays Last” is the final installment of Hudes’s three-part series. “You don’t need to have seen the other two plays to understand this one,” said Bandes Becerra Weingarden. “It’s a strong piece that deals with some difficult subjects including PTSD, death and mourning but ultimately it’s about finding joy in this life despite the hardships.” The six-person cast includes Bandes Becerra Weingarden as well as UW Tacoma student Katie Jones. Marilyn Bennett is directing the show. Bennett directed performances at UW Tacoma before Bandes Becerra Weingarden came to campus. “I love this character and the writing is spectacular but I haven’t been on stage in a long time,” said Bandes Becerra Weingarden. “Marilyn convinced me. We both wanted to work creatively together since we did a staged reading of the piece pre-COVID. That experience awakened a part of my creative being that had been dormant for a while.” Bandes Becerra Weingarden admits to feeling nervous when rehearsals started. “I wanted to set a good example for my students,” she said. “It’s hard to be vulnerable in front of students and to fail a little bit, and have a bad rehearsal day but there’s a lesson in showing how you deal with a that and do it with grace.” Besides being in the cast, students are also helping in other aspects of the production. “This is actually part of my theater practicum course,” said Bandes Becerra Weingarden. “We’ve got somebody helping with costumes, we have somebody doing sound,” she said. “We also have people doing lighting, stage management and building props.” Students in Bandes Becerra Weingarden's intermediate acting class, TARTS 251, offered for the first time in spring 2022. Theater at UW Tacoma continues to grow. The pandemic changed how Bandes Becerra Weingarden thinks about her work, but the show, most of the time, still went on. “We did have to cancel our first musical, for which I’m still in mourning,” she said. “However, during winter quarter we were able to host a show on campus.” That show – “A Night of Discovery” – was a series of scenes wrapped together around a theme. “Our student theater group decided on a theme of self-discovery,” said Bandes Becerra Weingarden. Ensuring the performance remained COVID free required some creativity. For instance, if a scene involved two actors, then only those actors would rehearse together. “Crossover was very limited,” said Bandes Becerra Weingarden. “We also rehearsed and performed in masks.” The show was a success – in more ways than one. “We had no COVID cases and, most nights, the performances were sold out,” said Bandes Becerra Weingarden. “The Happiest Song Plays Last” runs weekends from Friday, April 29 to Sunday, May 15. Once that show ends Bandes Becerra Weingarden will shift to thinking about her next project. “We’ll be working with Tacoma Little Theater again to do the musical ‘Rock of Ages,’” she said. “It’s totally eighties music that’s fun and feel-good.” Written by Eric Wilson-Edge Photos courtesy Maria-Tania Bandes Becerra Weingarden and Tacoma Little Theater Art Campus events Community partnerships Faculty School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Culture, Art & Communications Recent news Making a Connection UW Tacoma senior Leticia Barreto embraced campus life and opened up a world of opportunities. Gold Star spouse McClintock keynotes remembrance ceremony Alexandra McClintock, '22, will speak at UW Tacoma's 2022 Memorial Day Remembrance ceremony. Her husband, SFC Matthew McClintock, was killed in 2016 while serving in Afghanistan. Completing These Certificates Changed My Life Diane Lyons, '16, reinvented herself through certificate programs with the UW Tacoma Professional Development Center. More Recent News UW Tacoma in the News Secrets of Success: 2022 South Sound Business writers Madison Miller, Blake Peterson, John Stearns, Stephanie Quiroz, and Hailee Wickersham interview successful South Sound professionals to discover how they overcame personal challenges and obstacles to achieve success. South Sound Business - Online Edition - April 25, 2022 Economic and policy experts argue against repealing the capital gains tax Nine economic and policy experts, including UW Tacoma's Katie Baird, Anna Lovasz and Tim Scharks, call on voters to reject I-1929, which would repeal the capital gains tax established by the legislature in 2021. Washington State Wire - April 18, 2022 Inslee appoints Jon Scott to Snohomish County Superior Court Jon Scott, '96, most recently served as a senior trial attorney with the Snohomish County Public Defender Association. Washington Governor Jay Inslee News - April 15, 2022 More UW Tacoma in the News Contact News & Information email uwtnews@uw.edu phone_iphone 123-456-7890 ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts UWNetID login UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy