Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid Scholarships & Financial Aid Forms Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid How to Apply Tuition & Fees Types of Aid Scholarships & Financial Aid Forms FAQs Undergraduate Admissions Financial Literacy Graduate Costs & Financial Aid Find your Financial Aid Advisor Payment Information Contact Us Scholarship & Financial Aid Forms × Virtual appointments with Financial Aid Advisors are now available. Learn more here. To apply for financial aid at UH, start by submitting the FAFSA. Here are additional forms you might need: Academic Scholarship Appeal/Petition Alternative Loan Request Form B-On-Time Loan Application for Forgiveness College-Specific Scholarships Dependent Verification Worksheet Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) GRE Fee Reduction Certificate High School Completion Status Identity and Statement of Educational Purpose-For Mailing Identity and Statement of Educational Purpose-In Person Independent Verification Worksheet Learning Abroad Federal Parent PLUS Borrower Form Parent Tax Non-filer Form Federal Perkins Program Loan Exit Interview Post-Baccalaureate Certification Statement Private Loan Self-Certification Revision Request Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Appeal Special Circumstance Appeal Spouse Tax Non-filer Form State Exemption/Waiver Statement of Selective Service Status Student Tax Non-filer Form Summer Aid TEACH Grant Application Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Texas Armed Services Scholarship Program Eligibility Review Request Texas Grant Review Form Total & Permanent Disability Form Transfer Monitor: Spring Transfer Monitor: Summer Unusual Enrollment History Form Unusual Enrollment History Appeal Academic Scholarship Appeal/Petition Students may initiate a scholarship petition/appeal form if they have prior knowledge of circumstances that will prohibit them from meeting scholarship renewal requirements. Examples include, but are not limited to: needing to enroll in fewer than the required number of credit hours, participating in a COOP or other sanctioned university program, participating in a study abroad program, or if the student would like to request scholarship funds be applied to a semester outside the traditional award terms (Fall/Spring). The same form also may be used to appeal the cancellation of a scholarship due to lack of academic progress, including GPA and/or completing the required number of credit hours. Complete the form and submit it with a detailed letter describing the circumstances and provide supporting documentation. This form is to be used for scholarships only. Alternative Loan Request Form Required for students who are applying for an alternative loan and declining all other financial aid. Complete this request form only if requested or "initiated" in your myUH To-Do List. B-On-Time (BOT) Loan Application for Forgiveness The Texas B-On-Time Loan program has ended, this loan is no longer being offered to new borrowers. Upon graduation, previous borrowers will need to fill out the BOT Loan Application for Forgiveness. Dependent Verification Worksheet: 2021-2022 Dependent Verification Worksheet: 2022-2023 This form is requested from Dependent students whose Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) was federally selected for review in a process called, "Verification." Fill out the information online, print the form, and submit it to the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid only if requested or "initiated" in your myUH To-Do List. Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) (20 U.S.C. § 1232g; 34 CFR Part 99) is a Federal law that protects the privacy of student education records. The law applies to all schools that receive funds under an applicable program of the U.S. Department of Education. FERPA gives parents certain rights with respect to their children's education records. Schools must have written permission from the student in order to release any information from a student's education record. A student must complete the FERPA form and upload the document to their FERPA to-do list item in order for our office to speak about the student’s account with whom permission has been given. A link to the Authorization to Release Educational Records form and instructions on how to upload this document can be found here. Visit the below links for additional information on the FERPA: University of Houston’s FERPA Explanation Student Privacy at the U.S. Department of Education Parents’ Guide to the FERPA Students’ Guide to the FERPA Federal Perkins Loan Program Exit Interview This is completed when a student leaves or graduates from the University or is no longer at least half-time enrollment status. This does not include the summer semester. Students do not have to enroll in summer as long as they resume classes the following fall semester. GRE Fee Reduction Certificate The GRE Fee Reduction Certificate is for individuals who demonstrate financial need. The Fee Reduction Certificate may be used for one GRE® revised General Test and/or one Subject Test. Certificate users pay 50 percent of the regular test fee. High School Completion Status: 2021-2022 This form is requested from certain applicants whose Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) was federally selected for verification of their high school completion status. The form and acceptable documentation should be submitted only if it is "initiated" on your To-Do List in your myUH self-service account. Identity and Statement of Educational Purpose For Mailing: 2021-2022 Identity and Statement of Educational Purpose In Person: 2021-2022 Identity and Statement of Educational Purpose In Person Waiver: 2021-2022 Identity and Statement of Educational Purpose For Mailing: 2022-2023 Identity and Statement of Educational Purpose In Person: 2022-2023 Identity and Statement of Educational Purpose In Person Waiver: 2022-2023 This form is requested from certain applicants whose Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) was federally selected for verification of their identity and must complete a statement of educational purpose. The in-person form is to be signed in the presence of a financial aid representative. Please visit the Welcome Center with this form along with proof of your identity. If you are unable to visit the Welcome Center, you may have the mail-in form notarized and mailed to us along with a copy of your photo ID. If you are unable to visit us in person or to visit a notary, you may submit the in-person waiver form instead. This form should be submitted only if it is "initiated" on your To-Do List in your myUH self-service account. Learning Abroad: 2021- 2022 Learning Abroad: 2022- 2023 This form is required for students who are seeking financial aid and are enrolled in a UH Study Abroad program. Independent Verification Worksheet: 2021-2022 Independent Verification Worksheet: 2022-2023 This form is requested from Independent students whose Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) was federally selected for review in a process called, "Verification." Fill out the information online, print the form, and submit it to the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid only if requested or "initiated" in your myUH To-Do List. 2021-2022 Federal Parent Plus Loan Borrower Form 2022-2023 Federal Parent PLUS Loan Borrower Form If you are a parent of a dependent student and have been approved for a Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan, this form is required. Please submit this completed form along with a copy of your Driver’s License or State Identification Card to the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid. These documents can be uploaded if they are “initiated” in the student’s myUH To-Do List. If Federal Parent PLUS Loan Counseling is required by the U.S. Department of Education, funds will not be credited to a student’s account until this requirement has been met. Please click here to complete this requirement. Parent 2019 Tax Non-Filer Form Parent 2020 Tax Non-Filer Form This form is requested from dependent students to certify that his/her parent(s) has not and is not required to file an income tax return. The form should be submitted only if it is "initiated" in your myUH To-Do List. Post-Baccalaureate Certification Statement: 2021-2022 Post-Baccalaureate Certification Statement: 2022-2023 This form is requested from all students admitted in a post‐baccalaureate program. If you are not in a graduate program, but have a bachelor's degree, you are considered a post‐baccalaureate student for enrollment purposes. Post‐baccalaureate students are not eligible to receive federal or state grants. They may be eligible to receive Federal Direct Loan assistance, pending aggregate and program eligibility. Post‐baccalaureate students must be enrolled in at least 6 hours to receive loans. This form is required to determine aid eligibility and should be submitted only if it is "initiated" on your To-Do List in your myUH self‐service account. Private Loan Self-Certification This form is required from all admitted or enrolled students pursuing a private educational loan. Section 2 of this form will be completed by the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid (SFA) upon request. The applicant must submit the completed form to his or her lender. UH SFA does not process or track this form. Some lenders may have this requirement included in their private loan application process. The lender cannot submit funds to UH until the form is received. Pursuant to Section 155 of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, (HEA) and to satisfy the requirements of Section 128(e)(3) of the Truth in Lending Act, a lender must obtain a self-certification signed by the applicant before disbursing a private education loan. The school is required on request to provide this form or the required information only for students admitted or enrolled at the school. Throughout this Applicant Self-Certification, “you” and “your” refer to the applicant who is applying for the loan. The applicant and the student may be the same person. Revision Request: 2021-2022 Revision Request: 2022-2023 This form is used to reinstate funds, to cancel funds, or to make adjustments to your financial aid package based on a change in eligibility. Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Appeal: Summer 2022 Summer 2022 Sessions 1,2,3 Deadline: June 9, 2022 Summer 2022 Session 4 Deadline: July 14, 2022 You are encouraged to submit your 2021-2022 FAFSA as soon as possible, so that we may have adequate time to calculate your SAP status. You can upload this form to the SAP To Do List item listed in your myUH self-service, click here for instructions on how to upload documents. Please visit our SAP website for more information on the SAP guidelines. We also have a FAQs section that includes suggestions on how to fill out the appeal statements. Special Circumstance Appeal A student’s eligibility for financial aid is calculated based on the information provided on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). However, UH recognizes that many families experience changes in income, or have family situations that are not reflected on the FAFSA. This website provides information regarding the types of unusual or extenuating circumstances that can be considered; it is also a guide to understanding the process of submitting a Special Circumstance Appeal. Spouse 2019 Tax Non-Filer Form Spouse 2020 Tax Non-Filer Form This form is requested from independent students to certify that his/her spouse has not and is not required to file an income tax return. The form should be submitted only if it is "initiated" in your myUH To-Do List. State Exemption/Waiver Statement of Selective Service Status Required for male students that are receiving a state tuition and fee exemption or waiver, and did not complete a FAFSA. Complete this statement only if requested or "initiated" in your myUH To-Do List. Student 2019 Tax Non-Filer Form Student 2020 Tax Non-Filer Form This form is requested from students to certify that he/she has not and is not required to file an income tax return. The form should be submitted only if it is "initiated" in your myUH To-Do List. Summer Aid Summer aid eligibility for Federal funds is determined by any remaining funds that were not utilized during the fall and spring semesters. TEACH Grant Application: 2021-2022 TEACH Grant Application: 2022-2023 This form is for students interested in applying for the Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education (TEACH) Grant Program if they plan to teach in a public or private elementary or secondary school that serves students from low-income families. For more information, please click here. eTASFA - Texas Application for State Financial Aid Priority Deadline: Jan. 15 University of Houston has an online e-TASFA. Click here to create an account and complete the electronic application. Students are encouraged to complete the application and upload all requested documentation by the Jan. 15 priority deadline each year to be considered for maximum funding. For more information, please visit our TASFA/Senate Bill 1528 website. You will be notified via email to submit any additional documents, which may include tax transcripts, selective service registration, and/or additional forms. You will also see the required documents listed in your myUH self-service To-Do List. These documents should be submitted by uploading them to each To-Do List item. Please click here for instructions on how to upload documents. Students qualifying for state residency under House Bill 1403/Senate Bill 1528 are eligible to apply for state financial aid using the TASFA. In 2001, the Texas Legislature passed a bill that states these students may be eligible for state grants. Texas Armed Services Scholarship Program Eligibility Review Request: 2021-2022 Texas Armed Services Scholarship Program Eligibility Review Request: 2022-2023 This form is requested for any student receiving the Texas Armed Services Scholarship Program (TASSP) award. The information on the form is used to determine students' eligibility for the scholarship. Texas Grant Review Form: 2021-2022 Texas Grant Review Form: 2022-2023 This form is used to request a review of eligibility for continuation in the program. Note: This form is to be completed by previous Texas Grant recipients (continuing or transfer students) only. TEXAS Grant Hardship Provision Policy: The state of Texas requires that students who receive the TEXAS Grant must meet and maintain all of the following renewal requirements: Satisfactory Academic Progress Enroll in at least 9 credit hours per semester of award Cumulative GPA of 2.50 Complete/Pass 24 credit hours in an academic year Students not currently meeting eligibility requirements may complete and submit the TEXAS Grant Review Form. If summer grades are required for review, they are reviewed after summer grades have posted (end of August). Hardship circumstances which are reviewed include, but not limited to: Medical/Illness Financial Difficulty Emotional/Extreme Stress Family Issues Hardship forms are reviewed and approved by the program coordinator. In the event the coordinator is unable to determine a decision, the hardship is forwarded to the assistant director over TEXAS Grant. Approved hardships are awarded TEXAS Grant for the upcoming year. The appropriate RY award is placed on their account. Hardship forms are reviewed in the order received and subject to fund availability. Total & Permanent Disability Form: 2021-2022 Total & Permanent Disability Form: 2022-2023 If a student is in the process of applying for a Total and Permanent Disability (TPD) discharge, receiving additional federal student aid may affect eligibility for a TPD discharge. If a student has already received a TPD discharge, they must meet additional eligibility requirements to receive further federal student aid. Depending on when a TPD discharge was granted, receiving additional federal student aid may affect ability to keep the discharge. This form is required to determine aid eligibility and should be submitted only if it is "initiated" on your To-Do List in your myUH self-service account. Transfer Monitor: Spring 2022 Transfer Monitor: Spring 2023 If you are a spring transfer student, we are required to review your student aid history within the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS). If you have active federal student aid at another institution within the same academic year in which you are currently enrolled at our institution, you must cancel your pending spring aid at your previous institution and complete and submit this form. Please refer to our Spring Aid website for more information. Transfer Monitor: Summer 2022 Transfer Monitor: Summer 2023 If you are a summer transfer student, we are required to review your student aid history within the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS). If you have active federal student aid at another institution within the same academic year in which you are currently enrolled at our institution, you must cancel your pending summer aid at your previous institution and complete and submit this form. Please refer to our Summer Aid website for more information. Unusual Enrollment History Form: 2021-2022 Unusual Enrollment History Form: 2022-2023 This form is to be completed by students who have been flagged for "unusual enrollment history" by the U.S. Department of Education. A student may be flagged as a result of having received Federal Pell Grant Program Funds at multiple institutions in recent years. The University of Houston's Financial Aid Department will determine if a student had a valid reason for having unusual enrollment at multiple institutions. Unusual Enrollment History Appeal Form: 2021-2022 Unusual Enrollment History Appeal Form: 2022-2023 This form is to be completed by students who have been flagged for "unusual enrollment history" by the U.S. Department of Education. A student may be flagged as a result of having received Federal Pell Grant Program Funds at multiple institutions in recent years. The University of Houston's Financial Aid Department will determine if a student had a valid reason for having unusual enrollment at multiple institutions. College-Specific Scholarship Forms C.T. Bauer College of Business College of Education College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics College of Optometry College of Pharmacy College of Social Work College of Technology Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management Cullen College of Engineering Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture The Honors College University of Houston Law Center Related Links Net Price Calculator Financial Aid FAQs University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies