COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Honors Baccalaureate, Major MajorHonors Baccalaureate All Programs Dorothy and Bill Cohen Honors College The Honors Baccalaureate (HB) degree program from Wichita State is the only program of its kind in Kansas—and one of only a few offered in the country. As an honors student, you'll enjoy a rigorous, personalized program of study, including the completion of a final project before you graduate. This degree is ideal if you're interested in pursuing advanced degrees, leading to careers such as university teaching, medicine, law or management. Learn how the Honors Baccalaureate is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program There are no minimum ACT / SAT or GPA requirements for admission into the Cohen Honors College. Your scores are considered part of the review, with greater emphasis placed on your essay and resume. Click the link below to learn more about the Honors College admission process. Admission requirements Inside the Program Honors student improves leadership while helping others As an Honors student, Sarah Myose had the opportunity to help out in the community by teaching a weekly pre-literacy class at the Wichita Indochinese Center. They introduced immigrants and refugees to the basic English needed to fill out forms and applications, often to help with employment, health care or education. Myose used the hands-on experience to improve their leadership skills. “I came in not feeling really very confident about my soft skills, being able to teach people and be in that leadership position,” they said. “I learned more about how I can react in a position where I’m the teacher, where I’m the one with some of the leadership authority.” Curriculum The HB curriculum consists of 63 credit hours. You'll work closely with a Cohen Honors College advisor and select two or three academic disciplines from at least two other colleges at WSU. View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU's extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs University Honors (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©