Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Faculty/Staff Contact Us Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Web Cams Apply Now Make a Gift Explore Admissions Academics Students Financial/Tuition Home Welcome to the Graduate School TRANSFORMATION BEGINS HERE. Scroll Down Graduate NewsMore News STEM ALL-IN helped Sevrina Tekle choose Clemson University for her Ph.D. program Bradley Awards recognize faculty, graduate student Creative Inquiry mentors Clemson’s presence woven into Greenville’s Artisphere festival Clemson student discovers the architectural link between South Carolina and the White House Apply Now Request Information Make a Donation Events JUN 1 MBA Coffee Chat: Pelham Road 10:00 am to 2:00 pm Starbucks JUN 2 Quick Hits: Zoom Features 3:30 pm to 4:00 pm Click event for location. JUN 3 Summer Seminar Series on Gas Dynamics and Gravity: Enrico Ragusa, Ens de Ly... 2:00 pm to 3:15 pm Click event for location. JUN 8 Information Session 12:00 pm to 1:30 pm Click event for location. Welcome to the Graduate School! From Clemson’s 130+ programs, find your graduate track and start your transformation. COVID-19 and the University: up-to-date information and links Clemson University continues to hold institution-wide communications about institutional continuity as the emerging global COVID-19 situation unfolds. Read the University’s most current information at COVID-19 Updates. Additional links and resources: SC-DHEC COVID-19 Information Page South Carolina Emergency Management Division (SC-EMD) Johns Hopkins University & School of Medicine Coronavirus Resource Center Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) World Health Organization (WHO) Clemson University was founded in 1889 with a singular vision: to be a “high seminary of learning” to benefit the public good. Since that time, Clemson University has evolved and matured into a leading, modern land-grant university. However, we’ve never lost our focus on the reason we exist: to make the world — for all people — a better place through the power of education, creativity, curiosity and scholarship. With over 5,000 students in 130-plus graduate and professional degree programs, Clemson University’s faculty and students are reimagining the world we live in, even as you read this. Grad School by the numbers 40% Percentage of named inventors on patents issued to Clemson University who were graduate students (2006–2016). 1 Number of School of Nursing and Healthcare Genetics students who received pre-doc funding from the National Institutes of Health’s National Institute of Nursing Research via the Graduate Partnership Program. 1 Rank of the College of Education’s Master of Education in Teaching and Learning program among national online programs. Back to Top Copyright © 2019 Clemson University Graduate School | E-106 Martin Hall, Clemson University, Clemson SC 29634 Contact Us | Web Accessibility