Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Paul L. Foster Success Center Office of Access and Learning Accommodation Menu About OALA Welcome to OALA Accessibility Map & Transportation Contact Our Staff Documentation Guidelines Temporary Disability Testing Center OALA Success Stories Student Resources Accommodate Information FAQs for Students How to Request Services Baylor Disability Shuttle Medical Parking Permit Housing Accommodation Request Medical Documentation Request Meal Plan Accommodation Request Service/Emotional Support Animal Accommodation Request Study Abroad Accommodation Request Online Program Accommodations Video Resources Parent Resources FAQs for Parents Parent Guide Faculty/Staff Resources ADA Compliance Lecture Video Accommodate Information Faculty Resources for Online Programs FAQs for Faculty/Staff Presentation Request Report It! Syllabus Suggestions Campus Resources Baylor Counseling Center Baylor Health Services Campus Living & Learning Career Resources Related to Disability Emergency Procedures Tuition Insurance Make a Gift Paul L. Foster Success Center Office of Access and Learning Accommodation You have chosen to continue your education at a school with a long history of inclusion of students with disabilities. The Office of Access and Learning Accommodation (OALA) creates an encouraging, supportive, and caring environment where students with disabilities feel they are accepted and valued as individuals. This is achieved by showing compassion, patience, and open-mindedness as well as through teaching responsibility. Explore Welcome to our New Students! The Office of Access and Learning Accommodation (OALA) is excited to meet you. Our office and Baylor University are committed to ensuring equal access in all aspects of the college experience for students with disabilities in all of Baylor’s programs, including those taking courses online. Accommodations can include any changes, modifications, equipment, or services requested by students because of their disability—that includes classroom, housing, meal plan or mobility needs. Prospective students and their families have the opportunity to connect with OALA virtually as well. Schedule a virtual meeting or call us at 254-710-3605. You can also watch our information video to find out more information on the services we provide and find help on how to register! You can follow the process to request accommodations or services. We encourage you to start the registration process as soon as possible. Certain accommodations can take a few weeks to put into place. The sooner we can start working with you on an accommodation plan, the more likely it will be in place by the time you need it. This helps us accommodate the large numbers of new students each fall. Even if you are unsure about using accommodations, you can establish eligibility now, so accommodations can be implemented quickly should you need them. NOTE: Deadline to register with the Office of Access and Learning Accommodation for the Spring 2022 semester was Friday, April 8, 2022. Things to do now: Visit www.baylor.edu/orientation for more information about your overall Orientation experience. Be sure to complete the Foundations online modules before your advising appointment. Download the Navigate App in your App Store today for appointment reminders, timely information about holds, and your class schedule. It’s the easiest way to Navigate your path to Baylor success! Students The Office of Access and Learning Accommodation (OALA) is the office designated by Baylor to provide services and resources to facilitate equal access for disabled students, resulting in their full participation in Baylor's different programs. Read More Faculty and Staff Baylor University recognizes inclusion and access as a University-wide responsibility. As such, active participation by faculty, staff and the Office of Access and Learning Accommodation is key to creating accessible experiences. Read More Parents College life poses different challenges for students with disabilities. Parents will find commonly asked questions regarding the Office of Access and Learning Accommodation by exploring the parents' FAQ page and reading our parent guide. Read More Accommodate Information Apply for Accommodations Faculty/Staff FAQs Schedule an Appointment Student FAQs Office of Access and Learning Accommodation Paul L. Foster Success Center Sid Richardson Building First Floor (East Wing) One Bear Place #97204 Waco, Tx 76798-7204 (254) 710-3605 OALA@baylor.edu Paul L. Foster Success Center Make a Gift General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About OALA Welcome to OALA Accessibility Map & Transportation Contact Our Staff Documentation Guidelines Temporary Disability Testing Center OALA Success Stories Student Resources Accommodate Information FAQs for Students How to Request Services Baylor Disability Shuttle Medical Parking Permit Housing Accommodation Request Medical Documentation Request Meal Plan Accommodation Request Service/Emotional Support Animal Accommodation Request Study Abroad Accommodation Request Online Program Accommodations Video Resources Parent Resources FAQs for Parents Parent Guide Faculty/Staff Resources ADA Compliance Lecture Video Accommodate Information Faculty Resources for Online Programs FAQs for Faculty/Staff Presentation Request Report It! Syllabus Suggestions Campus Resources Baylor Counseling Center Baylor Health Services Campus Living & Learning Career Resources Related to Disability Emergency Procedures Tuition Insurance Make a Gift