Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index International Affairs Menu Search TTU International Affairs Texas Tech University will lead a comprehensive, professional development training institute for Ethiopian higher education administrators in collaboration with Oklahoma State University and Ohio State University. The U.S. Department of State's Bureau of African Affairs has named Texas Tech University's Office of International Affairs (OIA) as the recipient of a $502,957 grant as part of its University Partnership Initiative. The funding, which began Oct. 1 and will run through the end of April 2024, will allow OIA to establish the Education Administration Leadership Summer Institute in collaboration with Oklahoma State University and the Global One Health Summer Institute (GOHi) at Ohio State University, during the summers of 2021, 2022 and 2023. The university partners have worked with the U.S. Embassy in Ethiopia and Ethiopia's Ministry of Science and Higher Education (MoSHE) to design the summer institutes to prioritize and identify the needs of Ethiopian universities aligning with their national priority areas. The U.S. Embassy and MoSHE will identify and select 50 higher education administrators from Ethiopia to train on ways to improve academic leadership and to increase the retention among administrators trained in leadership, management and governance. The initiative will be led by Sukant Misra, principal investigator of the grant and Texas Tech vice provost for international affairs. The training will be co-facilitated by experienced Ethiopian leaders who have demonstrated success in Ethiopian higher education. U.S. faculty, staff and guest experts will lead interactive sessions. “This project addresses a critical need of Ethiopia's education sector,” Misra said. “The number of universities in Ethiopia has increased significantly in the last decade, but many of the higher education administrators lack experience and professional development opportunities to effectively lead the nation's ambitious higher education agenda. Our program will improve the management of the education system to increase institution performance and student achievement, one of the six priorities of Ethiopia's Education Sector Development Program.” Texas Tech has worked with multiple Ethiopian institutions for several years, demonstrating an ability to develop and sustain long-term partnerships in the country while effectively administering leadership development programs. The OIA has hosted two cohorts of The Mandela Washington Fellowship for Young African Leaders program, and the university has developed master's and doctoral engineering degrees with a group of Ethiopian universities, led by Jimma University. Plans for this latest endeavor began in October 2019. Representatives from Texas Tech, Oklahoma State and Ohio State, along with delegation members from the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities (APLU) and Indiana University, met with U.S. Embassy and MoSHE leadership to strategize how the U.S. universities could address specific needs within Ethiopian higher education. The institute will be held over three summers under the leadership of the OIA's Reagan Ribordy, director for international programs, and Laura Bilbao, associate director of international grants and partnerships. Each summer will include three weeks of training in Ethiopia and the United States, with travel dependent on the global health situation at that time. Training will include experiential living and learning opportunities, real-world applications, team building, conflict resolution and interactive, professional and personal development with designated mentors. Participants will assess their abilities to apply critical management skills to identify, understand and overcome the challenges of organizational change. They will learn to identify developmental priorities and opportunities for innovation on campus; how to support entrepreneurship and commercialization; and ways to improve government relations. They also will learn to evaluate the impact of new initiatives and alliances; how to create supportive environments for faculty and students; and understand diversity and inclusion in higher education leadership. The first cohort will participate in the summer institute in 2021. The comprehensive, interactive training program will begin with 3-5 days of in-country virtual training workshops followed by seven days at Texas Tech. While in Lubbock, participants will observe and analyze research management operations at Texas Tech, a Carnegie Tier One research institution, to learn best practices they can implement at their home institutions to enhance research management capacity. They also will explore interdisciplinary health and agricultural issues, like food safety, and their impact on higher education. After visiting Texas Tech, participants will spend four days at Oklahoma State and four days at Ohio State before returning to Ethiopia to work on projects related to specific challenges they face at home. In 2022, the second cohort will complete the institute, with top participants from the first cohort assisting in training the second group. Additionally, all participants from both cohorts will work with mentors assigned from the U.S. partner institutions, and all participants from the first cohort will report on the progress of their projects. During the final summer in 2023, faculty from each U.S. university partner will offer training workshops at GOHi Addis Ababa for both cohorts and help university administrators establish a mentorship program within their respective institutions. Both cohorts will report on the progress of their projects and receive a certificate from the U.S. institutions, signed by MoSHE. Misra said he looks forward to working with the other collaborators on the project. “We are proud of our partnership with Oklahoma State, Ohio State and Ethiopia's Ministry of Science and Higher Education,” he said. “We are confident that the Education Administration Leadership Summer Institute will be a great success.” International Affairs Like International Affairs on FacebookLike International Affairs on Facebook Follow International Affairs on twitterFollow International Affairs on twitter Subscribe to International Affairs on YouTubeSubscribe to International Affairs on YouTube Follow International Affairs on FlickrFollow International Affairs on Flickr Follow International Affairs on InstagramFollow International Affairs on Instagram Address 601 Indiana Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409-5004 Phone 806.742.3667 Email oia.reception@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 9, 2022 10:12 AM International Affairs International Students International Affairs International Students Back Admitted international students International Affairs International Students Admitted international students Back Visa Process Housing Health Insurance Pre-Arrival Guide Post-Arrival Checklist Immigration Information International Affairs International Students Immigration Information Back Immigration and Scam Alerts Make an Appointment F1 - Health Insurance F1 - Travel F1 - Employment Your F-1 Student Counselor Other F-1 Services and Processes OPT STEM OPT CPT J1 - Health Insurance J1 - Travel J1 - Employment J1 - Dependents International Student Life International Affairs International Students International Student Life Back Our Services to Incoming Students International Orientation Life in Lubbock Lubbock housing options Events hosted by ISL Get Involved Advice from current students Financial Aid for International Students Scams Against International Student FAQ's Study Abroad International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni Back J-1 Exchange Visitors International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni J-1 Exchange Visitors Back J-1 Program Information Hosting Department Information International Scholar Resources Make an Appointment/ISSS International Partnerships/Export Control Insurance Requirements Travel Dependents Help with Taxes International Alumni International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni International Alumni Back International Alumni Networks Give to Office of International Affairs Update Contact Information Contact Office of International Affairs Employing International Visitors International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni Employing International Visitors Back H-1B Work Visa Information Permanent Residency Information Labor Certification for Non-Teaching Faculty Hosting Department Information Visitor Visas Paying International Visitors Fullbright Scholars & Students Make an Appointment International Scholar Resources J-1 Student Intern Information International Partnerships/Exports Help with Taxes Community Outreach & Events International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Back Community Outreach International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Community Outreach Back Art Exhibits Signature Events K-12 Global Education Outreach International Affairs Community Outreach & Events K-12 Global Education Outreach Back Mission Program Options Program Reservations K-12 Geo FAQ's Pre/Post Activities Give to K-12 ICC Facility Rental International Affairs Community Outreach & Events ICC Facility Rental Back Room Rental Information ICC Rules & Regulations Directions Passport Office International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Passport Office Back Passport Office Information Faculty/Staff Resources International Affairs Faculty/Staff Resources Back Faculty/Staff Resources International Affairs Faculty/Staff Resources Faculty/Staff Resources Back Center for Global Communication International Research and Development International Center for Arid and Semi-Arid Land Studies International Partnerships and Export Control Global Roundup Fulbright International Travel Information International Seed Funding Hosting International Students Scholarships International Affairs Scholarships Back First Year & Transfer Students Continuing Students Study Abroad Students National and International Scholarships & Fellowships About Office International Affairs About Office Back The Office of International Affairs International Affairs About Office The Office of International Affairs Back About Us Vice Provost OIA Services and Contact Information Directory Strategic Plan Organizational Chart OIA Year in Review Visitors Guide Visitors Guide - Español News and Events International Affairs About Office News and Events Back International Digest OIA News OIA Events Recent Newsletter Newsletter Archive Media Gallery International Affairs About Office Media Gallery Back Photos Videos Give to OIA International Affairs About Office Give to OIA Back Appeal from the Vice Provost International Affairs Fund for Excellence International Affairs Student Scholarship OIA Committees International Affairs About Office OIA Committees Back Scholarships International Affairs Council Fulbright Information Special Initiatives International Affairs About Office Special Initiatives Back Global Vision Awards Leadership, Management and Governance Program Texas Tech Costa Rica Campus Texas Tech Global Bridge program Mandela Washington Fellowship Ambassadors Forum Contact Us Additional Resources TTU Home Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index