Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Academic Advising Academic Advising Home Change of Major Transfer Students Study Abroad FAQ Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Academic Advising Academic Advising Home Change of Major Transfer Students Study Abroad FAQ Clemson Home College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Students Academic Advising Current: FAQ Frequently Asked Questions What does the CBSHS Academic Advising Center do? The center advises freshmen, sophomores and transfer students in the College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences (CBSHS). We answer questions for prospective students in these same fields who are high school seniors. We provide services for change of major students trying to gain access to restricted/closed majors within CBSHS. This may be in the form of group interest meetings, information on our website, or one-on-one assistance. During peak times – first two weeks of school, October 1 through November 15, and March 1 through April 15 – students changing majors will be seen after current advisees on an as-available basis. We assist students with course scheduling, registration and other academic related assistance to ensure success through the first two years. We work with students to assist them with working through the process of how to take courses elsewhere (usually in the summer). We assist students seeking information about studying abroad and make campus referrals as necessary. Students in Communication; Political Science; Psychology; and Sociology, Anthropology and Criminal Justice are assigned to advisors in satellite locations. Students should work directly with their assigned advisor for appointments and advising dates and deadlines. Find Your Advisor What is the best way to make an appointment to see an advisor? With the high volume of inquiries, appointments are the only way to ensure you will see an advisor. During peak times, appointments are required. Students should follow us on Twitter for drop-in advising information. Additionally, CU Navigate is the platform for making appointments as well as seeing many other important academic pieces. Students should learn to use this software. Visit CU Navigate When is the center open? Typically, the center is open from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday-Friday. During the school year, the center is open through the lunch hour. However, advisors will take lunch and may not be available to meet with students. We are closed on weekends as well as University and state holidays. From May 1-August 15, the center is typically closed at lunch. It is always best for a student to have an appointment or call before coming to the office. I will be visiting campus and would like to meet with an advisor in my intended area. Will someone be available? Advisors within the CBSHS Academic Advising Center are always willing to meet with prospective students. It is recommended that you schedule prospective student appointments with the advisor at least two weeks in advance to ensure availability. Due to the high volume of nursing prospective student inquiries, group tours for this school are the only available option for visiting. Please see this link for more information about their policy. Please note that advisors are available only during office hours and are not available on Saturdays, Sundays and University holidays or during peak advising times. The advisors will make every effort to accommodate requests made less than two weeks in advance. The Academic Advising Center always has material available for prospective students to pick up if an appointment has not been made. Regular office hours are Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. It is also highly recommended that students meet with a University admissions counselor as our advisors do not admit students to the University. Am I required to meet with an advisor to register for classes? In short, yes. Your advisor is concerned about your academic progress and well-being as a student at Clemson and the College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences. Therefore, we require that each student make an appointment either as directed or via email in October and March to come into our office for a face-to-face meeting with their advisor. We do not clear students to register via email or telephone. At what time of the year do I need to be cleared to register? The pre-registration period always runs from roughly October 1 to November 15 in the fall semesters and March 1 to April 15 in the spring semesters. All students will be required to come in for advising during this time. We have many options including targeted group sessions, one-on-one appointments, and drop-in hours. All students advised by the CBSHS Academic Advising Center will receive an email notification through their official Clemson University email address containing pre-registration information and instructions for how to sign up for an appointment. It is your responsibility as the student to respond to these emails and make an appointment versus just showing up and expecting to be seen on your schedule. I haven't heard from my advisor, and I know it is time to be advised. What should I do? There are many reasons why communication may not be reaching you regarding the pre-registration process. It is recommended that you reach out to your assigned advisor by going to their campus office, calling their campus phone number, or emailing them. I am not certain who my assigned advisor is for this semester. How can I find this information? All students can view their advisor in iROAR. Visit iroar.clemson.edu and click "Registration" > "Student" > Student Records > Student Information. Generally, freshmen and sophomores are assigned designated professional academic advisors, and juniors and seniors are assigned faculty advisors in their field of study. I am a parent and would like to know about my child's grades, class attendance, or another issue. Will an advisor talk with me? Under current FERPA (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Acts) legislation, if your student is 18 years of age or older, we cannot speak to parents or other family members concerning academic records, class attendance, or other educational information. For more information concerning FERPA and your rights, please visit the registrar's website for a brief tutorial. We encourage students and their parents to have open, honest lines of communication that will allow the parents to be knowledgeable about pertinent aspects of their academic progress. We are always willing to meet with you and your student together (in person). However, this should be a rare occurrence, not the norm. As a parent, can I follow up with an advisor concerning my student's inquiries? We strongly encourage your student to become independent. This includes having them take charge of scheduling meetings, making phone calls, sending emails, or taking on other actions related to following up with information needed. How can I track my academic progress? Degree audits are available online at any time. They are updated nightly for accuracy. You can check your degree audit online by following these steps: Visit iroar.clemson.edu Click "Current Students, Faculty and Staff" > Log in using your CUID Click "Student" > "Student Records" > "Degree Works" Can I just stop by to see my advisor? With the high volume of inquiries, appointments are the only way to ensure you will see an advisor. During peak times, appointments are required. Students should follow us on Twitter for drop-in advising information. Additionally, CU Navigate is the platform for making appointments as well as seeing many other important academic pieces. Students should learn to use this software. Visit CU Navigate I am a new freshman. Must I attend freshmen orientation? Yes. During orientation you will register for fall classes, learn about different University programs and services, and meet faculty and staff in the College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences. Advisors within the college will assist you in selecting courses. Does it matter which orientation I attend? There are special orientations for Honors College, Early Success Program (ESP), Tiger Town Summer Bound Program, and Math Excellence Workshop (MEW) students. Refer to the orientation link for those sessions. Students not participating in these programs are not required to attend a specific orientation. Must I attend orientation if I am a transfer student? The College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences requires that transfer students attend transfer orientation to get their credit evaluated and register for fall classes. Advisors within the college will assist you in selecting courses. How many hours do I need to keep my scholarship? Every scholarship is different. You should always contact Financial Aid with any scholarship questions. How do I change my major to Communication, Health Science, Nursing, PRTM or Psychology? These programs all have different requirements. Please refer to our change of major page. I have transfer credit from another institution. Will it count towards my Clemson GPR? Only credits transfer, not grades. How do I declare a minor? Check out the minor requirements in your announcement book and make sure that you have room in your schedule. Once you have determined that you can meet all minor requirements, make an appointment with your assigned advisor to complete the "change of academic program" form. College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Copyright © Clemson University College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences | 116 Edwards Hall 864-656-7640 | Email Us | Academic Questions intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson