Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Leadership Leadership Vice President VP's Leadership Team Diversity Officer Student Advisory Board Student Reps to BOT Committees Programs Programs Special Funding Student Boulevard Guidelines Courageous Change Leader Award Hilltop Excellence Awards Resources Resources Student Event Guidelines Student Values Statement Off Campus Party Registration Alcohol Request Form Student Employment Employment Opportunities Strategic Direction Get Help ☰ Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Vice President's Leadership Team Senior Finance and Business Manager for Student Affairs Senior Finance and Business Manager for Student Affairs Julius K. Mwangi As the Senior Finance and Business Manager for Student Affairs, Julius provides guidance, monitoring, compliance, and analysis for the departments comprising Student Affairs and Student Housing in the budgeting and finance areas to the Division of Student Affairs. He is also responsible for revenue projections and estimates; budget development; monitoring of budget versus actual financial activity, and conducting analyses at the responsibility unit and departmental levels. Education and Credentials Master of Science, Accounting Information Management – University of Texas at Dallas Master of Divinity -Southern Methodist University CPA (K) Kenya College of Accountancy jmwangi@smu.edu (214) 768-2596 About Mr. Mwangi Julius Mwangi provides guidance, monitoring, compliance, and analysis for the departments comprising Student Affairs and Student Housing and Residence Life. He works in coordination with the Budget and Finance Division, and is responsible for revenue projections and estimates; budget development; monitoring of budget versus actual financial activity and conducting analyses. The role requires an understanding of the nature of operations, business cycles, financial trends, and areas of financial risk for each department and each fund type, including revenue, student activity fees, health center fees, auxiliary operations, gifts, and endowment income funds, among others. As a career accountant, Julius crisscrossed the world of numbers, their analysis, and the critical questions of why and how. He has worked in consultancy where he reviewed and evaluated processes to ensure an efficient recording process and a smooth flow of documentation; and as an auditor where he determined whether financial statements follow generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). His career fulfillment maximizes when he provides data evidence that aids decision making in either directions. He completed his accounting certification in Kenya at Kenya College of Accountancy and thereafter registered with the Registration of Accountants Board. In his final certification examinations, he received awards for the highest scores in the final section and in the financial accounting paper. When his family relocated to the U.S., Julius joined the University of Texas at Dallas, Naveen Jindal School of Management for a Master of Science in Accounting Information Management, and later joined Southern Methodist University, Perkins School of Theology for a Master of Divinity. In his spare time, Julius enjoys putting his thoughts in writing. He wrote several articles for the Accountant Journal, a publication of the Institute of Certified Public Accountant of Kenya – Accounting Standards in Developing Countries; East African Tax Law Review, and The Ultra Vires Doctrine. He also co-authored a report for the Institute of Internal Auditors, Insider Trading – The Internal Auditor’s Perspective and published a book titled A Reason to Carry On – When Your World Falls Apart. Julius also tries to give back to the society by volunteering in non-profit organizations. Currently he serves as a Board member for McKinney Housing Development Corporation. He previously also served as a Board Director for Justice for Our Neighbors, Cleft Kids Inc., and on the Advisory Board of MUWA Foundation. Learn more about the Division of Student Affairs Visit the website Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share