Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty & Staff Forms Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Students Enrollment Verification Grades OverviewGPA and Grading ScaleGrade ChangeFAQ Transcripts OverviewOfficialUnofficialLambuth UniversityFAQ Reverse Transfer FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA NotificationRelease of Student Education Record Student Right-to-Know Information Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM OverviewLate/Retroactive Withdrawal Self Service Guides Take Action View Calendars Order Transcripts View Notices Contact Us Home Registrar Students Degree or Enrollment Verification Degree or Enrollment Verification Do you need proof that you are enrolled at the University of Memphis or that you have earned a degree from the University of Memphis? You have two basic options for providing the proof you need: You can refer the organization (employer, legal association, medical association, insurance company, etc.) that needs the enrollment verification to the National Student Clearinghouse, or You can request the verification yourself from the Clearinghouse. Referring Organizations to the Clearinghouse Web: www.studentclearinghouse.org (Information is available, 24 by 7.) Mail: The National Student Clearinghouse / 2191 Fox Mill Road, Suite 300 / Herndon, VA 20171-3242 Email: service@studentclearinghouse.org Phone: 703.742.4200 FAX: 703.742.4239 Requesting Verification from the Clearinghouse If you need an enrollment verification, please request it through the National Student Clearinghouse. This is the fastest way for you to get your enrollment verification. It may take up to five days for enrollment verifications requested through the Registrar's Office to be mailed out at this time. You can use the Clearinghouse's "Student Self-Service Site" to print your information. However, you may use this approach only if you attended the University in the Spring 2001 term or later. If you attended UofM prior to January 2001, or if you are not enrolled at least half-time and considered half-time by your academic program (e.g., non-credit internship or dissertation), you will have to request the information in another manner (see below). Go to the University of Memphis' Clearinghouse Login page. This page opens in a new browser window. You will be asked to supply two pieces of information: your UofM Username (aka, UUID or Universal User ID) and your Password. (These are the same pieces of information you use to login to the portal or to login to iAM to "manage your digital identity" at the University.) Now click the "Login" button. If you meet the above criteria and have entered your information correctly, you will be identified to the Clearinghouse as a valid UofM student. A new browser window opens—the Clearinghouse Self-Service page with your information. Once you reach the Self-Service page, you may perform any of the following—free of charge: Print a certificate of enrollment that you can forward to any organization requiring proof of your enrollment. View enrollment information that may have been provided to a student services provider. View the electronic notifications and deferment forms that have been sent to any lenders, service providers, or guarantors. View a list of your lenders and link to real-time student loan information detail, such as outstanding principal balance and the next payment due-date that some lenders provide. When you are finished viewing/printing your information, close the browser window with your information. What happened? I got an error message that my login was unsuccessful. This can mean one of two things: either (1) you are not eligible to use the web method because you last attended the University before January 2001, or (2) you did not enter your Username and Password correctly. Call UofM's IT Helpdesk at 678-8888 for assistance. Other Ways of Requesting Enrollment Verification Yourself If you need an enrollment verification, please request it through the National Student Clearinghouse. Go to the University of Memphis' Clearinghouse Login page. This is the fastest way for you to get your enrollment verification. It may take up to five days for enrollment verifications requested through the Registrar's Office to be mailed out at this time. If you are unable to use the Clearinghouse login to obtain your verification information, contact the Registrar's Office to request the verification. In any request, be prepared to provide the following information: Type of Request: Degree Verification or Enrollment Verification Your Name Your U-Number (or the last 4 digits of your SSN) The name and mailing address of the organization to receive the verification Your graduation date (for Degree Verification), or your anticipated graduation date (for Enrollment Verification), if the organization requires this If you are not enrolled at least half-time (6 hours undergraduate or 4.5 hours graduate), please indicate on your request the special circumstances that would qualify you to be considered half-time (e.g., internship). Note: If the Enrollment Verification is for an insurance company, you may request it before the first day of classes. However, if the Enrollment Verification is for a loan company, you may not request it until classes have started. Please allow 48 business hours for your verification to be processed and sent. Degree Verification If an institution or organization needs a Degree Verification for you, refer that entity to the National Student Clearinghouse (see "Referring Organizations to the Clearinghouse" above). Organizations may request Degree Verifications from the Clearinghouse; students may not. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 6/29/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.