Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Office of the Provost About Office Directory Academic Affairs Organizational Chart Academic Calendar Academic Units Deadlines Academic Search Index News Faculty Prospective Faculty Current Faculty Baylor Commencement Departmental Resources: Tenure & Promotion Faculty Awards Faculty Development Faculty Meetings Faculty Retirement Planning Program Faculty Updates and New Information Recommended Syllabus Statements Past Faculty Emeritus Faculty Recent Retirees Retiree Benefits Retiree Resources Faculty Handbook Faculty Handbook History Faculty Classifications Faculty Responsibilities Evaluation, Tenure, Promotion, and Compensation Policies and Procedures Related to Employment at Baylor Faculty Benefits Faculty Senate Faculty Ombudsperson University Libraries Information Technology Services University Committees Policy Revisions Policies & Guidelines Administrative Resources Event Planning Guidelines for Establishing a New Department Hiring Faculty Legal Issues Resources & Budgets Staff Technology Working with Faculty Curriculum Management Assessment of Student Learning Outcomes Course Actions, Revisions and New Proposals Course Data Template Course Lookup Curriculum and Assessment Electronic Course Action System FAQs Regarding Curriculum Changes Scheduling Classes Undergraduate Curriculum Forms Export Compliance GDPR Privacy Notice International Travel Office of Institutional Research Policy Revisions BUPP 702 Promotion BUPP 705 Faculty Dismissal BUPP 706 Faculty Workload and Merit Evaluation BUPP 708 Faculty Development BUPP 710 Meetings Revision History BUPP 711 Faculty Senate BUPP 714 Summer Sabbaticals BUPP 715 Research Leaves BUPP 716 Lecturers and Senior Lecturers BUPP 717 Academic Credentials for Faculty and Graduate Teaching BUPP 721 Intellectual Property University Policy Library Initiatives COACHE Survey Faculty Diversity & Belonging Readers Meet the Author Readers Meet the Author Archive ACE Internationalization Lab Other Initiatives Baylor/Xavier University Exchange Program Big 12 Faculty Fellowship Program Discipline-Specific Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Belonging Training and Education Proposals New Faculty Mentoring Program Target of Excellence Hiring Program Illuminate Research at Baylor Office of the Provost As the university's chief academic officer, the Provost has responsibility for all of Baylor's academic enterprises including twelve schools and colleges and more than one dozen research centers and institutes. The Provost works closely with the President, deans, department chairs, faculty, Regents, and others to provide academic vision and leadership and to promote and support excellence in teaching, learning, and research within the context of a Christian worldview. Explore Popular Searches Administrative Resources Departmental Resources Evaluation, Tenure, Promotion, and Compensation Faculty Benefits Faculty Handbook Faculty Senate Teaching Responsibilities See All Initiatives COACHE Survey In Fall 2019, the Provost formed a Task Force to assess faculty satisfaction and identify strategies to enhance the faculty experience, retention, and productivity. The Task Force partnered with Harvard’s Collaborative on Academic Careers in Higher Education (COACHE) to conduct an extensive survey of all faculty in Spring 2020. This strategic partnership allows us to compare our results across campus, relative to 5 peer institutions, and across 110 institutions nationwide. Learn More Readers Meet the Author Readers Meet the Author features the scholarly work of faculty from across disciplines in a unique virtual format. At each gathering, we focus on a recently authored book by a member of our Baylor Community, hearing from the author and sharing in a Q&A. Learn More Faculty Diversity & Belonging As a leading Christian institution with a strong Baptist heritage and impact that extends throughout Texas and internationally, Baylor University seeks to “educate men and women for worldwide leadership and service by integrating academic excellence and Christian commitment within a caring community.” In line with this mission, we seek to embody Christ’s teachings of love and inclusivity across boundaries of racial, ethnic, gender, socio-economic, religious, and other expressions of human difference. Learn More ACE Internationalization Lab Baylor University, along with 9 other U.S. and international universities, is a participant in the 18th cohort of the American Council on Education's (ACE) Internationalization Laboratory, a guided and collaborative strategic planning process. Learn More Vice Provost Search The University is in the midst of an exciting time of change and growth. During Academic Year 2022-2023, we are conducting a search for a new Vice Provost for Global Engagement. Learn more about the Center for Global Engagement Readers Meet the Author Join us for this series featuring scholarly work of faculty from across disciplines. An invitation will be sent to all faculty and staff prior to the event with a Zoom link to follow one to two days prior to the event. The first 15 to register for these virtual events will receive a copy of the featured book. Learn More New Vice Provost of Faculty Diversity and Belonging Announced The Office of the Provost is pleased to announce Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D., Professor of Christian Scriptures with Baylor’s George W. Truett Theological Seminary, has been selected to serve in a new position as the University’s Vice Provost for Faculty Diversity & Belonging. Learn more about Vice Provost Reid Welcome to Our New Dean of the Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences Following a nationwide search, we are delighted to announce that Jason R. Carter, Ph.D., vice president for research, economic development and graduate education at Montana State University, has been selected as the Dean of Baylor’s Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences. Learn more about Dean Carter Prospective Faculty Baylor's success is dependent upon recruiting the very best from a diverse pool of candidates. The University provides a vibrant campus community with students from all 50 states and more than 90 countries. We invite you to come be a part of our community. Learn More Current Faculty We are so proud to host over 2,000 faculty members here at Baylor. Learn more about special events, awards, and benefits, the latest announcements, as well as development opportunities to hone your craft. Learn More Past Faculty Learn more about the resources available for those retiring from Baylor's faculty, as well as the most up-to-date lists of emeritus faculty and recent retirees. Once a Baylor Bear, always a Baylor Bear! Learn More Illuminate A new Academic Strategic Plan Baylor University has embarked on a new Academic Strategic Plan—Illuminate—that draws upon the institution’s heritage and commitment to becoming a preeminent Christian research university, as outlined in Pro Futuris. Learn More News More News May 11, 2022 Dr. Jason Carter appointed as Robbins College Dean I am pleased to share with you that Jason R. Carter, Ph.D., vice president for research, economic development and graduate education at Montana State University, has been selected as Baylor University’s Dean of the Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences, effective August 8. Read More May 5, 2022 Dr. Stephen Reid appointed Vice Provost for Faculty Diversity & Belonging I am pleased to share with you that Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D., Professor of Christian Scriptures with Baylor’s George W. Truett Theological Seminary, has been selected to serve in a new position as the University’s Vice Provost for Faculty Diversity & Belonging. Read More Feb. 9, 2022 Dr. Rachelle Rogers Becomes President of ATE Dr. Rachelle Meyer Rogers (Ed.D. 2005), a clinical associate professor in Baylor’s School of Education, assumes the role of ATE president this month after serving as vice president last year. She was elected to the role in the Fall of 2020, chosen by her peers to lead an organization that she calls the “protector” of the teaching profession. Read More Feb. 2, 2022 Michelle Johnson Appointed New Baylor University Registrar The Office of the Provost is pleased to announce that a new Registrar has been appointed for Baylor University. Michelle Johnson will be joining Baylor after more than 15 years at Azusa Pacific University in Azusa, California, where she was the Associate Vice President & University Registrar. Read More Events More May 30 2022 Memorial Day (University Holiday) May 31 2022 End of fiscal year Jun 1 2022 Student learning assessment reports due to Office of Institutional Effectiveness May 16 2022 Minimester session (ends Jun 2, 2022) Cherry Awards Outstanding Faculty Faculty Retirement Planning Emeriti Faculty Policies & Guidelines Office of the Provost Pat Neff Hall, Suite 109 1329 S. 7th Street Waco, Texas One Bear Place #97014 Waco, Texas 76798 (254) 710-3601 About Back Office Directory Academic Affairs Organizational Chart Academic Calendar Academic Units Deadlines Academic Search Index News Faculty Back Prospective Faculty Current Faculty Back Baylor Commencement Departmental Resources: Tenure & Promotion Faculty Awards Back Outstanding Faculty Research Leave Awards Teaching Awards Faculty Development Faculty Meetings Faculty Retirement Planning Program Faculty Updates and New Information Recommended Syllabus Statements Past Faculty Back Emeritus Faculty Recent Retirees Retiree Benefits Retiree Resources Faculty Handbook Back Faculty Handbook History Faculty Classifications Back Academic Professionals Clinical Faculty Lecturer Faculty Retired Faculty Back Emeritus Faculty Tenure-track/Tenured Faculty Faculty Responsibilities Back Academic Freedom Community Life Personal Conduct Research Responsibilities Teaching and Related Responsibilities Back Academic Appeals Academic Support for Students Accommodating Students with Disabilities Add/Drop a Course Attendance Policy Classroom Conduct Career Counseling Class Roll Instructions Delayed Examinations FERPA/Handling Student Records Final Exam Policy Grading Policies Harm to Self or Others Honor Code Honor Code Reporting Form Library Questions Mental Health Counseling Resources Office Hours Office of Spiritual Life Paul L. Foster Success Center Reporting Deficiencies Student Course Evaluations Evaluation, Tenure, Promotion, and Compensation Back Annual Faculty Performance Review Assessment of Part-Time Faculty Faculty Compensation Faculty Promotions Pre-Tenure/Tenure Review Policies and Procedures Related to Employment at Baylor Faculty Benefits Faculty Senate Faculty Ombudsperson University Libraries Information Technology Services University Committees Policy Revisions Policies & Guidelines Back Administrative Resources Back Event Planning Guidelines for Establishing a New Department Hiring Faculty Back Hiring Process for Faculty Hiring Forms for Faculty Faculty Interviews & Contract Initiation New Faculty Checklist New Faculty Mentoring Program Legal Issues Resources & Budgets Staff Back HR Resources for Managers & Academic Leaders Staff Compensation Staff Evaluations Staff Position Requests Technology Working with Faculty Curriculum Management Back Assessment of Student Learning Outcomes Course Actions, Revisions and New Proposals Course Data Template Course Lookup Curriculum and Assessment Electronic Course Action System Back Electronic Course Action System (ECAS) User's Guide FAQs Regarding Curriculum Changes Back Individual Course Proposals & Revisions Scheduling Classes Undergraduate Curriculum Forms Export Compliance GDPR Privacy Notice International Travel Office of Institutional Research Policy Revisions Back BUPP 702 Promotion BUPP 705 Faculty Dismissal BUPP 706 Faculty Workload and Merit Evaluation BUPP 708 Faculty Development BUPP 710 Meetings Revision History BUPP 711 Faculty Senate BUPP 714 Summer Sabbaticals BUPP 715 Research Leaves BUPP 716 Lecturers and Senior Lecturers BUPP 717 Academic Credentials for Faculty and Graduate Teaching BUPP 721 Intellectual Property University Policy Library Initiatives Back COACHE Survey Faculty Diversity & Belonging Readers Meet the Author Back Readers Meet the Author Archive ACE Internationalization Lab Other Initiatives Back Baylor/Xavier University Exchange Program Big 12 Faculty Fellowship Program Discipline-Specific Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Belonging Training and Education Proposals New Faculty Mentoring Program Target of Excellence Hiring Program Illuminate Research at Baylor General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678