Skip to site alert. Skip to content Institute of Human Nutrition Our Faculty Make A Gift Alumni Contact Us Search About Us About Us Message from the Director Our Mission History Policy and Impact Administration Our Faculty Events Message from the Director A welcome message from Sabrina Diano, PhD, Director, Institute of Human Nutrition. Read the Message Education Education MS in Human Nutrition Continuing Medical Education (CME) PhD in Nutritional and Metabolic Biology Alumni IHN alumni are advancing nutrition around the world through work in the health care industry, clinical research, medical education, and more. Learn About Our Alumni Research Research Areas of Research Research Labs Research Laboratories Learn more about the Institute for Human Nutrition's research. Explore Our Research Welcome from Director Sabrina Diano Welcome from Director Sabrina Diano Learn About Education at IHN Learn About Education at IHN Explore Our Research at IHN Explore Our Research at IHN Advancing research, education, and outreach in nutrition to improve human health locally, nationally, and worldwide. Learn More About Our Mission Learn More About Our Mission Education Training the next generation of nutrition experts at a world-renowned medical center in the heart of NYC. Education Education Research Bringing together investigators who are at the cutting edge of their disciplines to advance nutrition science worldwide. Research Research Policy and Impact Collaborating with scientists, educators, and policy makers from across the world to improve human health. Global Impact Global Impact Events One-year MS in Human Nutrition Program Recorded Webinar Saturday, December 17, 2022 All day Venue Online Event View All Events Announcements Updates to IHN Administration Sarah Bergren and Alex Sosa assume new responsibilities Anthony Ferrante Jr. Named to New Research Role at Diabetes Center Anthony Ferrante Jr. Named to New Research Role at Diabetes Center Fall 2022 M.S. program application is open! Join our M.S. in Human Nutrition program for Fall 2022. Our application opens on December 15th, 2021. Visit the M.S. section of our website to learn more about our program and apply. 2021-2022 IHN Seminar Series Calendar The IHN Seminar series calendar for the 2021-2022 academic year has been announced. View All Announcements News MS Program Director Dr. Kim Hekimian contributes to the Wall Street Journal article Baby-Formula Shortage Worsened by Drop in Breast-Feeding Rates Source: The Wall Street Journal May 31, 2022 Covid-19 restrictions, pandemic disruptions caused shift in how parents feed their babies, health experts say. IHN Alumna receives NYAM grant Source: Downstate Health Sciences University President's Bulletin March 24, 2022 Following a highly competitive process, Grace Shadid (COM ’25) received a grant to support their faculty-mentored 10-to-12-week research project. Li Qiang awarded National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases grant March 2, 2022 Li Qiang receives grant from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases View All News Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Alumni Contact Us Make A Gift Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top