COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Transition to Teaching (T2T) Program Play Play Video NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR JUNE 2023 T2T Information Sessions: Zoom Transition to Teaching information sessions are held monthly with the dates and times posted here. The sessions are held monthly onThursday evenings and Saturday afternoon. Sessions last approximately one hour. A laptop computer with built in camera and microphone or a desktop with webcam work best for these sessions. Sessions will resume in June for applicants who would like to consider entering our program in the summer of 2023. June Zoom Information Sessions: Thursday, June 16 at 7:00 p.m. Saturday, June 18 at 3:00 p.m. Due to heightened WSU Zoom security, you will need to email the following information to T2T.info@wichita.edu in order to join a meeting: Your name Your preferred email address A list of any degree(s) you have earned and major(s) The level you are interested in teaching (middle or high school only) The subject area you are interested in teaching Where in Kansas you would like to teach, and How you found out about the Transition to Teaching program at Wichita State University Include the date of the session you wish to attend in your email. Receipt of the email will be acknowledged, and you will be sent a link to the information session at least 30 minutes before start time of the session you have selected. Email T2T.info@wichita.edu with any questions. The T2T program at WSU is a two-year alternative Kansas only licensure program that combines graduate coursework (on-campus, hybrid and online) and full-time, paid teaching in an accredited school as the classroom teacher of record. The program is geared toward working professionals looking for a career change and more recent graduates wanting to teach. Teaching candidates fulfill teacher licensure requirements during their two years in the T2T program. During these two years they complete 29 graduate credit hours towards an MAT degree. Those who wish to earn the Master of Arts in Teaching degree must complete an additional seven hours of research in the third year. Please note that the WSU T2T program is not a fully online program; some classes are held on the WSU main campus. We only start eligible participants in a new cohort the first day of classes in June of each year. To be eligible for the T2T program and restricted license, students must complete, in order: Complete at least a BA/BS degree (in the secondary content field in which the candidate is seeking licensure) or equivalent coursework from an accredited higher education institution, in a regular content area eligible for restricted licensure. Meet GPA requirement of 2.750 in the last 60 hours of college coursework completed. Complete an interview and pre-advisement with T2T program staff. Receive passing scores on the Praxis Subject Assessment exam for the area of licensure. Be fully admitted to the WSU Graduate School, in the MAT degree-bound category. Apply after completing the application pre-advisement session. Attend a required T2T orientation in the spring. Secure a teaching contract in an accredited Kansas school district. DO NOT apply for teaching positions until you have been admitted to the T2T program. Consult with T2T program staff if considering a teaching job at a non-public school or an alternative school. Complete summer prerequisite education coursework. The Transition to Teaching program offers three options for obtaining a restricted teaching license. Option 1 and Option 2 require no additional subject area coursework because the degree matches the subject area license for the subject an applicant wants to teach. Option 3 requires completion of subject area coursework prior to being eligible for the Transition to Teaching program. Option 1: I have a bachelor's or advanced degree in one of the following secondary subjects and want to teach that subject: Art (PreK-12) History/Government (6-12) Biology (6-12) Math (5-8 or 6-12) Chemistry (6-12) Music (PreK-12) Earth/Space (6-12) Physics (6-12) English (5-8 or 6-12) Science (5-8) French (PreK-12) Spanish (PreK-12) Option 2: I have a bachelor's or advanced degree in one of the following secondary subjects and want to teach that subject: Agriculture (to teach Vocational Agriculture) Journalism Business (preferably a BBA or MBA) Speech/Theatre Family & Consumer Science Option 3: I have a bachelor's or advanced degree, but it is not in one of the secondary subject areas listed below. To be eligible for the Transition to Teaching program, I will need to submit transcripts for analysis to determine what subject coursework I will need to take before I can be considered for the T2T program. I will need to select ONE of the licensure areas listed below to determine this coursework: Art (PreK-12) History/Government (6-12) Biology (6-12) Math (5-8 or 6-12) Chemistry (6-12) Music (PreK-12, vocal or instumental) Earth/Space (6-12) Physics (6-12) English (5-8 or 6-12) Middle School Science (5-8) French or Spanish (PreK-12) Middle School Social Studies (PreK-12) The WSU Transition to Teaching Program does not offer alternative licensure support in the following areas: Counseling or Library Science Psychology or Sociology Elementary Education or Early Childhood Physical Education ESOL/TESOL Special Education Computer Science/Technology Links and Resources Read the T2T FAQ See the list of required coursework Learn how to apply to the program 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©