Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager S4 Training S4 offers a variety of training activities. The links to the left provide information about the GIS Institute, the graduate certificate program in spatial analysis, and other courses and workshops that we offer. A short summary of our offerings is provided below. GIS Institute Since 2005 S4 has offered Brown faculty, staff, and graduate students an intensive two-week introduction to GIS mapping and spatial analysis. Additional information available here. Certificate in Spatial Analysis Doctoral students who wish to develop a specialization in spatial approaches within their graduate program can take advantage of a range of courses that include both statistical analysis and substantive applications. Courses S4 faculty offer several undergraduate and graduate courses in GIS, spatial analysis, and spatial thinking. Different courses are offered each semester and are announced as part of Brown’s normal registration process. If you have any questions or comments, feel free to contact S4’s Associate Director Kevin Mwenda. Workshops Specialized workshops are offered periodically throughout the academic year. For inquiries, feel free to contact S4’s Senior GIS Developer and Spatial Scientist Guixing Wei. Training S4 Fellows Program S4 Graduate Student Paper Prize Doctoral Certificate in Spatial Analysis GIS Institute Student Poster Projects S4 Courses S4 Workshops Also in S4 Home About People Projects Training S4 Fellows Program S4 Graduate Student Paper Prize Doctoral Certificate in Spatial Analysis GIS Institute Student Poster Projects S4 Courses S4 Workshops Events Resources COVID-19 Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Brown University Box 1836 3rd floor of Maxcy Hall 108 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1064 Fax: 401-863-7497 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat