Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Vocal Arts MM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Vocal Arts MM Apply Request More Info Vocal Arts MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Music in Vocal Arts Advance your music education and deepen both choral and solo singing skills with the Master of Music in Vocal Arts in the Boyer College of Music and Dance at Temple University. Graduates leave this master’s program prepared for careers in areas like community music, education and performance. The Master of Music in Vocal Arts is interdisciplinary and flexible. You’ll combine the rigor of classical voice training with the freedom to select an area of focus in another genre, including choral studies, music education, musical theater, and voice and opera studies. Expanding your education beyond the classical studio experience, you’ll complete a core group of private voice lessons and participate in choral ensembles. To attain your degree you will take a comprehensive examination covering music literature and music theory, and execute a public performance, at least half of which must be a solo performance. You will have four years to complete this 30-credit program on a full- or part-time basis. Choosing between the Voice Performance MM and Vocal Arts MM The Voice Performance MM is designed for the student whose career goal is to become a professional classical voice performer. In contrast to the Voice Performance MM, the Vocal Arts MM allows students to broaden their vocal training to include choral music, conducting, music education or musical theater. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover vocal arts faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer vocal arts degree programs. Classes & Curriculum In this 30-credit degree, courses include Choral Ensemble; Electives (Choral Conducting, Choral Literature, Pedagogy, etc.); Research in Music; and Voice Major. Learn more about Vocal Arts MM classes and curriculum. Related Graduate Degrees Composition MM Music Education MM Music Education PhD Music MA Music MS Music PhD Music Theory MM Performance DMA Performance MM Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact The program coordinator for the Vocal Arts MM is Christine Anderson. Phone: 215-204-8375 Email: christine.anderson@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. American Choral Directors Association provides students opportunities to experience choral conducting through guest lectures and rehearsal practice, and offers opportunities to earn practical experience through various regional and state conferences. Broadway on Broad presents cabarets and various other productions at Temple University and around the Philadelphia community. It serves to provide an outlet for students who are passionate about the performing arts. Broadway on Broad is not directly affiliated with the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. OwlCappella is a coed a cappella group—one of seven student-run a cappella ensembles on campus—that provides a musical outlet for non-music and music majors alike. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-VCAR-MMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Vocal Arts MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info