Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Cultural Analytics Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Cultural Analytics Certificate (Graduate) Cultural Analytics Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in Cultural Analytics Examine cultural objects using an array of computational methods with the Graduate Certificate in Cultural Analytics in the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication at Temple University. Also known as “digital humanities,” cultural analytics combines coding, computer science, statistics and other methods to study modern culture in digital form. The Cultural Analytics Graduate Certificate is ideal for students in humanistic and nonscientific fields, and lays the foundation for advanced research in your chosen discipline or career. Participants are encouraged to work within one of the following focal areas. Basic programming Data visualization Mapping and geographic information systems Research design and analysis Social media research Statistics Text encoding and analysis Virtual environment What sets apart the Cultural Analytics Graduate Certificate program? Unique learning opportunities. Students in this graduate certificate program receive specialized training in the management and use of digital materials, learning to apply computational methods to the study of cultural objects. Items readily available for study through this program include archival materials, books, films, museum objects, paintings and sculptures. Interdisciplinary study. This program combines faculty and resources from several of Temple’s schools, colleges and research spaces, including the College of Science and Technology, the Tyler School of Art and Architecture, and the Loretta C. Duckworth Scholars Studio. Our study and collaboration opportunities provide each student with the freedom to tailor their education to their specific interests and career goals. Research excellence. Temple is classified as an R1 research institution by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education. This prestigious designation denotes “highest research activity” among four-year institutions in the nation. Here, you have unparalleled access to a breadth of advanced research opportunities that will advance you in your chosen discipline or career. Program Format & Curriculum The Cultural Analytics Certificate can be completed full time or part time, depending on your schedule or preference. Matriculated students are required to complete nine credits for this program, while nonmatriculated students must complete 10 credits. Among the courses offered in this program are the following. Cartographic Design Digital Qualitative Research Methods Geovisualization Inferential and Multivariate Statistics Scripting for Sciences and Business Social Media Analytics Learn more about courses and requirements for the Cultural Analytics Graduate Certificate. Cultural Analytics Practicum Blogs Four recent graduates of this certificate program authored blog posts detailing their practicum projects. Read about their work below. Artistic Change in the Aegean Bronze Age Black Philadelphia’s Historic Landmarks Colonial Pennsylvania Fujian Temples Charting Artistic Change in the Aegean Bronze Age By Tenninger Kellenbarger This project examined and evaluated the use of the smiting pose in the Aegean Bronze Age, as well as investigated and traced its roots in the Eastern Mediterranean during the Early Bronze Age. Focusing on the use of the smiting pose in both the Ancient Near East and Egypt, this study tracked the pose’s use, transference and importation to the Aegean world. Read the full blog. Digital Mapping to Explore Black Philadelphia’s Historic Landmarks By Tauheedah Asad This project used mapping and geographic information systems to support “Digging Philly: The Black Philadelphia Project,” which utilizes digital media and technology to explore storytelling possibilities and celebrate the experiences, institutions, spaces and cultures of Philadelphia’s Black population. Read the full blog. Using GIS to Map Settler Colonialism in Pennsylvania By Ryan Wheatley This project created a historic GIS landscape map focusing on the expansion of British and later American settlements (1680–1900’s) across the colonial landscape of Pennsylvania. The goal was to represent Pennsylvania’s settlement expansion in relation to native historic markers and land purchases, to help educate others about Pennsylvania’s colonial history. Read the full blog. Using Historical GIS to Discover the Spatial and Temporal Trends of the Construction of Temples in Fujian By Rouying Tang This project mapped trends related to temples constructed in Fujian, a Southeastern province in China. It ranged from the Jin 晉 (266–420CE) to the period of the Republic of China 中華民國 (1912–1949CE). Read the full project blog. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Contact the following faculty member with specific questions about advisors for the Cultural Analytics Certificate (Graduate). Adrienne Shaw is the program director. Email: adrienne.shaw@temple.edu Program Contacts Contact the following staff or faculty members with additional questions about the Cultural Analytics Certificate (Graduate). Adrienne Shaw is the program director. Email: adrienne.shaw@temple.edu Marianne Moll is the program administrator. Email: marianne.moll@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. View program details. CO-CUAN-GRAD Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Cultural Analytics Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.