Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Maguire Center Events Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Ethics & Compliance Certificate Public Scholar Lecture Conference of the Professions Past Events Student Engagement Student Engagement The Ethics Essay Prize Public Service Fellowships Teaching and Research Teaching and Research Teaching Fellowship Public Scholars Faculty Incentive Grant Program Resources Resources COVID-19 SMU Ethics Toolbox Papers Sound Ethics Research Newsletter Newsroom Newsroom From the Director's Desk Ethics Blog About Us About Us Leadership Cary M. Maguire Ethics Center Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee Contact Give ☰ Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Office of the Provost Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Events Events Maguire Center events: Address pertinent contemporary issues. Local and national experts stimulate discussion with insight and experiences that span a wide variety of topics. Encourage participation in the burgeoning national commitment to "university citizenship" and promotes Southern Methodist University as a key voice in national conferences on leadership, service, and ethics-related scholarship and education. Honors community citizens who exemplify the spirit of moral leadership and public virtue. Annual Events J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Named in honor of the public-spirited former mayor of Dallas, the Maguire Center is proud to present this award to people whose careers should be recognized, honored, and modeled. READ MORE Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Lectureships in Values and Ethics, a Delta Gamma program sponsored by the Delta Gamma Foundation, was established by Dr. Paul Martin honoring his wife Dorothy Garrett Martin (Dotty), Eta-Akron in celebration of their 50th wedding anniversary. READ MORE Public Scholar Lecture From the Center's earliest years, we have showcased the university's most exciting scholars in our Public Scholar lecture series. Many Public Scholar lectures have been published in slightly revised form as Occasional Papers of the Center. READ MORE Ethics & Compliance Certificate The program is a collaboration within Southern Methodist University among the Cox School of Business, the Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership at the Dedman School of Law, and the Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility. READ MORE Annual Conference of the Professions The annual Conference of the Professions is sponsored by the SMU Dedman School of Law, the Dallas County Medical Society, the Dallas Bar Association, the SMU Perkins School of Theology, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas and, since 1995, SMU’s Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility. READ MORE Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Ethics & Compliance Certificate Public Scholar Lecture Conference of the Professions Past Events Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share