Skip to main content Explore Sections open search open menu Close From the latest big breakthrough to the most influential and inspiring figures on campus to Pitt in the community, Pittwire is your official source for what’s happening now. Explore By Topics Health and Wellness Technology and Science Arts and Humanities Community Impact Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Global Innovation and Research Our City/Our Campus Explore By Category Features & Articles Accolades & Honors Ones to Watch Announcements and Updates Pittwire Other Links Pitt Magazine Event Calendar Social Media Directory Close Search Pitt Search Search for People Close Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events Navigation Navigation About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work Info For Info For Alumni Community Global Sustainability Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Close Search Pittwire Search Search www.pitt.edu Featured Sections Health and Wellness Technology and Science Arts and Humanities Community Impact Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Global Innovation and Research Our City/Our Campus Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Subscribe to Pittwire Get the most interesting and important stories from the University of Pittsburgh. Subscribe Bacteria-killing viruses discovered by Pitt researchers are saving patients who have no other options Features & Articles Pitt Business named a new dean Eugene “Gene” Anderson joins Pitt from Syracuse University. He’ll lead both the Joseph M. Katz Graduate School of Business and the College of Business Administration beginning Aug. 1. The University of Pittsburgh will compete for $10 billion in military health contracts Pitt will lead a group of universities and small businesses to conduct Defense Health Agency-funded research that benefits the health of the armed services. A Pitt team forecasted the devastating toll of the opioid epidemic As Pitt Public Health researchers predicted, more than 100,000 people are now dying from drug overdoses annually in the U.S. It shows we really don't understand the causes of the problem, they say. The war in Ukraine will be fought in court, too. Here’s how Pitt’s School of Law is helping. This August, the Ukrainian Legal Assistance Project will bring Ukrainian lawyers to Pitt and support them in defending their country. View All Articles Announcements and Updates Understand NIH training grants and how to get one at a June 6 summit Register now for Pitt’s 2022 Diversity Forum Watch rarely screened Ukrainian films at Pitt The Chancellor’s Annual Staff and Faculty Appreciation Picnic is back View All Articles Accolades & Honors Valerian Kagan is the ‘cover scientist’ of an academic journal Health disparities and social justice poster competition winners announced Natalie Leland has been inducted into the Academy of Research in Occupational Therapy Vanitha Swaminathan named co-editor of the Journal of Marketing View All Articles When Pitt students move out, Clutter for a Cause finds a new life for stuff that’s left behind Pitt-UPMC researchers will use $5 million from Bayer to fight chronic kidney disease Trending The University of Pittsburgh will compete for $10 billion in military health contracts Register now for Pitt’s 2022 Diversity Forum How do monarch butterflies know where to migrate? The Ones to Watch In an environment where innovation and inspiration are in no short supply, meet the trailblazers. Asher Hancock This engineer wants to put autonomous vehicles in the sky. Richard Su Fang The U.S. Presidential Scholar and first-year Pitt student is already exploring research opportunities and taking on leadership roles. Danielle Obisie-Orlu The Allegheny County Youth Poet Laureate with a 30-year plan. Jim Withers His Street Medicine Institute provides “street rounds” and social services to people who live outdoors. Ashley Priore A rising senior, political strategist and top chess player who’s making bold moves. Toya Jones Studying trauma and its impact. Tre Tipton This wide receiver and social work graduate student﻿﻿﻿’s journey has taken him from despair to LOVE—living out victoriously every day. Catherine Cavanaugh This nationally lauded scholar is helping Spanish speakers learn complex science. Previous Slide Next Slide See More Spotlights Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Quick Links & Resources Quick Links & Resources Accessibility Statement Careers Consumer Info/Achievement Contact Us Departments A-Z Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Find People Information Technology LGBTQ+ Nondiscrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy My Pitt Regional Campuses Regional Campuses Bradford Greensburg Johnstown Titusville Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work 4200 Fifth Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15260 United States +1 412-624-4141 Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube