Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Education Menu About At a Glance Contact the School Office of the Dean Dean's Biography Dean's Office Directory Dean's Office Directory Centennial Events Featured Profiles Impact Living-Learning Center Mission of the School of Education Outcomes Consumer Information Why Baylor School of Education Learning Spaces Marrs McLean Science Learning Resources Center (LRC) Media Lab Mathematics Education Lab Impact Living-Learning Center Academics Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction Dept. of Educational Leadership Dept. of Educational Psychology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs MA in Teaching (MAT) MAT Admission Information MAT Degree Requirements / Coursework Certification Information (OPP) MAT Joint Programs Global Programs Undergraduate Study Abroad Graduate Study Abroad Explore our Programs Apply Tk20 Info Tk20 Login for Student/Faculty For Students For Cooperating Teachers For Faculty Outreach & Applied Research Partnerships Professional Development Schools The Co-Teach Model Partner School Districts Greater Waco Area Superintendents Impact Living-Learning Center Centers Baylor Center for School Leadership Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities Clinic for Assessment, Research and Education (CARE) Baylor Autism Resource Clinic Grants & Initiatives Research Stories Professional Development for Educators Summer Literacy Institute Fall GT Conference Mathematics Teacher Academy Social Studies Academy Mathematics for Teachers of Early Learners (MTEL) Academies & Institutes of BCSL (Baylor Center for School Leadership) Baylor Beginning Teacher Institute Summer Superintendents Institute Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar Faculty Meet the Faculty Faculty Positions Assistant Professor in Curriculum & Instruction Clinical Assistant Professor of ELementary Education Professor and Department Chair of Educational Leadership Clinical Assistant or Clinical Associate Professor of School Psychology (Dallas campus) Assistant or Associate Professor of School Psychology (Waco campus) Grants & Initiatives Centers Students Prospective Undergraduates Why a BSEd at Baylor? Degree Planners & Certification Areas FAQs Visit the School of Education SOE Glossary Student Spotlights Transfer Students Impact Living-Learning Center Meet Dr. Neil Shanks Meet Your Major Podcast Prospective Graduate Students Advising and Degree Programs Schedule an Advising Appointment Meet the Advisors Degree Planners & Certification Areas Apply to Graduate Advising FAQs Equivalent Courses Tool for Baylor Baylor Undergraduate Catalog Give Feedback Certification Information Complaint Policy Office of Professional Practice (OPP) Certification Information Baylor University Technology Practices in Teaching and Learning Complaint Process Action Research Schedule A Visit Visits: Prospective Undergraduate Students Visits: Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships for Undergraduates Student Profiles Student Services Advising Learning Resources Center (LRC) Student Wellness Services Professional Meeting Support for Undergraduates Kappa Delta Pi Action Research Student Advisory Council Professional Licensure Information MEET the SOE podcast Alumni Alumni Awards Keep in Touch Alumni Profiles Update Your Information Impact Newsletter Online Homecoming Centennial News News and Announcements News Blog: Instant Impact Impact Newsletter Online SOE in the News SOE Social Media Information for Media SOE Coronavirus Updates SOE Coronavirus FAQ Make a Gift Baylor>School of Education>News>SOE Coronavirus Updates>SOE Coronavirus FAQ SOE Coronavirus FAQ Coursework 1. Does the university's pass/fail policy for Spring 2020 apply to SOE students? 2. What are the specific classes affected for SOE students under the pass/fail policy? Fieldwork/School Sites 1. What if I left some personal belongings at my clinical site/school? Impact Living-Learning Center 1. If I live on campus (including in in the SOE's Impact Living-Learning Center), what will move-out look like and how can I retrieve my things? 2. Can I still apply to live in Impact LLC next year? Whom do I contact with questions about reapplication? 3. If I currently live in Impact LLC and receive an LLP scholarship, where can I find information on renewing my award for next year? Learning Resources Center 1. What if I am away from campus and I have items I need to return to the LRC? Will there be penalties? 2. If I am in Waco, how can I return LRC items? Required Trainings 1. How can Teaching Associates (typically juniors) complete the required trainings before entering the Internship year? 2. How will Interns and Teaching Associates finish the final evaluations that are required? 3. When and how will Intern orientation take place? 4. How will Interns (seniors) complete the certification process? Testing 1. How will Teaching Associates complete their diagnostic testing for TExES this semester? 2. How will I schedule my official TExES exams? 3. What if I miss an official TExES testing deadline as outlined in the Teacher Education Handbook? TK20 1. Where can I get information if I am having trouble with TK20? 2. What if I need TK20 help that I cannot find on the site? Whom to Contact 1. Do you have questions beyond those addressed in the FAQs? Coursework 1. Does the university's pass/fail policy for Spring 2020 apply to SOE students? Yes, but students need to be careful about choosing this option and consider the consequences. Baylor University is providing all undergraduate students the opportunity to elect to convert any of their spring course grades to pass/fail at the end of the semester once their final grades have been submitted. However, as Provost Nancy Brickhouse indicated, "even though a grade of 'pass' at the end of the spring 2020 semester will allow a student to progress forward within the University's system, electing a grade of 'pass' does not mean that students -- especially those within professional schools that lead to professional licensure/certification -- should elect the 'pass' option and move forward within their major." 2. What are the specific classes affected for SOE students under the pass/fail policy? The School of Education requires students to earn a grade of B (3.0 grade points) or better in certain courses* before progressing to the next course in the School of Education sequence (*this does not apply to graduating seniors because the School of Education sequence is completed at the time of graduation). These courses are: TED 3341, TED 3362, TED 3379, TED 3384, TED 3386, TED 3388, TED 3391, TED 3397, TED 3470, TED 3620, TED 3621, TED 3631, TED 3651, TED 3670, 46xx (internship course) Should students elect the "pass" option for any of these courses, they will be unable to move forward within their major without initiating an appeal. During the appeal, the original letter grade for the course, along with instructor input and extenuating circumstances pertaining to the course grade, will be considered in the rendering of the appeal decision. All students currently enrolled in any of these courses have received an email about it. Any student considering the pass/fail option should consult one of the SOE academic advisors via email: Dr. Joel Porter or Ms. Tamara Roznos. Appeals are initiated by contacting the certificate coordinator by email. Appeals in the SOE are handled on a case-by-case basis, and decisions are rendered before the beginning of the next semester. BACK TO TOP Fieldwork/School Sites 1. What if I left some personal belongings at my clinical site/school? If candidates have personal belongings left on their assigned campuses, the items will be gathered and returned to candidates when it is considered by Baylor University and the school district to be safe for a designated individual to enter classrooms at the campuses. At this time, we are not sure when that will be. We will communicate with candidates as more information is available. If a student has medication or other belongings that he or she MUST have immediately, please contact Dr. Krystal Goree. Attempting to retrieve such materials will need to be addressed on a case-by-case basis. Even the teachers of record (and, in some cases, the campus principals) are not allowed on campuses to collect belongings at this time. BACK TO TOP Impact Living-Learning Center 1. If I live on campus (including in in the SOE's Impact Living-Learning Center), what will move-out look like and how can I retrieve my things? Updated as of April 23, 2020: Students living in the SOE's partner Impact Living-Learning Center in South Russell Hall have two options for move out: 1. Immediately Available: Packing & Shipping/Storage options through Campus Crates/The UPS Store. This would allow students to remain where they are and allow Campus Crates/The UPS Store to act on their behalf by packing, shipping and/or storing their items. Students would be directly responsible to Campus Crates/The UPS Store for payment. Appointments for this process are available now through MyHousing portal. 2. Deferred Option: Once the Shelter in Place order is lifted, students would be able to make an appointment for time slots to access their room and pack their belongings to move out. If students would like to store any items with Campus Crates/The UPS Store, they may contact them directly. Campus Living & Learning will maintain communication with students and update them if/when the Shelter in Place order is lifted so the appointment process can begin. More details about these Move-Out processes and associated costs are available through MyHousing portal. Please be assured that we have been keeping your rooms locked and your belongings safe. If you have any questions, please contact living@baylor.edu. 2. Can I still apply to live in Impact LLC next year? Whom do I contact with questions about reapplication? Housing applications can be found through your Housing Portal on the CL&L website. You can contact Program Director Ryan Erck with any questions related to applying or reapplying for Impact LLC. More information: CLL 3. If I currently live in Impact LLC and receive an LLP scholarship, where can I find information on renewing my award for next year? You can find more information about necessary steps to keep the award at the Student Engagement Scholarship web page on the Baylor website. If you have questions about the required engagement to fulfill your scholarship criteria, you can email Ryan Erck. BACK TO TOP Learning Resources Center 1. What if I am away from campus and I have items I need to return to the LRC? Will there be penalties? Even though the LRC is closed, students will NOT be penalized for late items. For senior students who may not be returning to campus and have items checked out, please email the LRC at LRCservice@baylor.edu so we can make arrangements to return these items (without penalty). 2. If I am in Waco, how can I return LRC items? A collection box for the LRC has been placed outside of the glass doors of Marrs McLean Science Building, on the side that faces South Russell Hall (Impact LLC) and the soccer field. BACK TO TOP Required Trainings 1. How can Teaching Associates (typically juniors) complete the required trainings before entering the Internship year? The Texas Education Agency (TEA) requires that all teacher education candidates complete state/program approved training in the following areas: Dyslexia, Mental Health, Youth Suicide Prevention, and Substance Abuse. All Teaching Associates have been provided with links to the required training through TK20. Upon completion of each of the trainings, the candidate should print (or take a screen shot of) the certificate verifying that the training has been successfully completed. The certificate (or picture of the certificate) must then be uploaded to the candidate's account in TK20. This will provide evidence for Baylor to support the candidate in having participated in the training required to be recommended for certification at the completion of the educator preparation program. If you have questions or concerns, please contact Ms. Sandra Parnell or Dr. Krystal Goree 2. How will Interns and Teaching Associates finish the final evaluations that are required? The Final Evaluations Seminars listed in the Handbook Calendars will be completed virtually. A link to the final evaluation will be sent to each Intern and Teaching Associate on April 20 and must be completed and submitted no later than 4:30 p.m. on Friday, April 24. Instructions and other important information will be included in the email containing the link to the Evaluations Survey. Teaching Associates and Interns should be looking for the email the morning of Monday, April 20. If you have questions or concerns after receiving the email or if you encounter problems completing the survey, please contact Ms. Sandra Parnell 3. When and how will Intern orientation take place? Spring Intern Orientation is still planned for April 28, 29, and 30 from 8:30 - 10:30 a.m. as listed on the Teaching Associate Calendar in the Teacher Education Handbook. Teaching Associates and others who are scheduled to begin the Internship/Clinical Experience in the fall of 2020 should keep the above-mentioned dates and times open in order to participate in this required virtual training. More information about training, events, and information sessions will be shared in the near future. Please contact Dr. Krystal Goree with any questions. 4. How will Interns (seniors) complete the certification process? Interns scheduled to graduate in May 2020 or August 2020 will receive an email on April 24 providing instructions for applying for teacher certification. Instructions need to be carefully followed and the process completed no later than Thursday, May 14, at 4:30 p.m. For questions, please contact Ms. Sandra Parnell. BACK TO TOP Testing 1. How will Teaching Associates complete their diagnostic testing for TExES this semester? Teaching Associates (TA) have been given access free of charge to online TExES review resources. TAs preparing for the EC-6 Core Subjects, EC-12 PPR, Middle (4-8), Secondary (6-12 or 7-12), or EC-12 Special Education content specific diagnostic tests are using 240 Tutoring. EC-12 PE and EC-12 Spanish candidates have access to Certify Teacher. All TAs have the opportunity to review instructional materials that complement course instruction and take practice quizzes before taking full-length, timed practice tests at the end of their assigned modules. The practice test(s) will serve as the requirement for diagnostic testing this semester. Students who score an 80% or better on the online practice(s) will be approved to take the official TExES exam in their content or for the PPR. If you have questions regarding timelines for completion of the online resources, please contact Lisa Osborne. 2. How will I schedule my official TExES exams? Once Teaching Associates have earned an 80% or better on the online practice tests, Mrs. Osborne will approve students to take the official TExES exam. Currently the testing company is closed to official testing opportunities because of COVID-19. Please see the link to the testing company for the most up-to-date information regarding the ability to schedule an official test: https://www.tx.nesinc.com/ For any questions related to official TExES testing, please contact Lisa Osborne. 3. What if I miss an official TExES testing deadline as outlined in the Teacher Education Handbook? Due to closures of the TExES testing centers, the following official TExES requirements have been waived for candidates who will begin their internship in fall 2020 (and may be completed after the initiation of the internship experience): EC-6 Candidates -- one official test completed by the start of the internship 4-8 Candidates -- one official test completed by the start of the internship 6-12/7-12 Candidates -- one official test completed by the start of the internship EC-12 PE Candidates -- one official test completed by the start of the internship EC-12 Spanish Candidates -- one official test completed by the start of the internship EC-12 Special Education Candidates -- pass the official PPR by May 31st of TA year EC-6/Gifted and Talented Supplemental Candidates -- pass the PPR and EC-6 Core Subjects by May 31st of TA year EC-6/Special Education Supplemental Candidates -- pass the official PPR by May 31 of TA year We encourage you to use the link to the testing company for the most up-to-date information regarding your ability to schedule an official test: https://www.tx.nesinc.com/ We strongly encourage students to register for and complete as many testing requirements as possible prior to the commencement of your internship. Mrs. Osborne will be monitoring the status of the testing centers regularly. If you have questions or concerns, please contact Lisa Osborne. BACK TO TOP TK20 1. Where can I get information if I am having trouble with TK20? The resources needed are at this link: http://www.baylor.edu/soe/tk20students 2. What if I need TK20 help that I cannot find on the site? If further help is needed, please send email to Tk20_Support@baylor.edu. BACK TO TOP Whom to Contact 1. Do you have questions beyond those addressed in the FAQs? We encourage you to contact your course instructor for course-specific questions and utilize the list below to determine the individual who can best address your question. Click the name to email the person. School of Education Contact Information: Dr. Terrill Saxon, Interim Dean Dr. Suzanne Nesmith , Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education Office of Professional Practice (OPP): Dr. Krys Goree, Director of Professional Practice Ms. Sandra Parnell, Assistant Director of the Office of Professional Practice and Certification Officer Mrs. Lisa Osborne, Educator Preparation Program Support Specialist/Testing Specialist SOE Advisors: Dr. Joel Porter, Assistant Dean and Director of Undergraduate Advising Ms. Tamara Roznos, Senior Academic Advisor Tk20, Impact LRC and First-Year/Recruitment: Mr. Thom Edwards, Web Programmer/Analyst and Tk20 Specialist Dr. Jenifer Johnson, Associate Director of Recruitment and First Year Experience Mr. Ryan Erck, Impact LLC Program Director Ms. Pam Voyles, Director of Learning Resources Center Certificate Coordinators Dr. Barbara Purdum-Cassidy, EC-6 Certificate Coordinator Dr. Rachelle Rogers , Middle Grades Certificate Coordinator Dr. Madelon McCall, Secondary Certificate Coordinator Dr. Tonya Davis, Special Education Certificate Coordinator Dr. Todd Kettler, Gifted and Talented Certificate Coordinator Department Office Managers: Ms. Lisa Edwards, Curriculum and Instruction Office Manager Ms. Heather Tindle, Educational Psychology Office Manager Ms. Julie L. Baker, Educational Leadership Office Manager BACK TO TOP News News and Announcements News Blog: Instant Impact Impact Newsletter Online SOE in the News SOE Social Media Information for Media SOE Coronavirus Updates SOE Coronavirus FAQ Apply Now Make a Gift Contact Us Visit Campus Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students School of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About At a Glance Contact the School Office of the Dean Dean's Biography Dean's Office Directory Dean's Office Directory Centennial Events Featured Profiles Impact Living-Learning Center Mission of the School of Education Outcomes Consumer Information Why Baylor School of Education Learning Spaces Marrs McLean Science Learning Resources Center (LRC) Location and Hours Check-Out Procedures Media Lab Mathematics Education Lab Impact Living-Learning Center Academics Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction Dept. of Educational Leadership Dept. of Educational Psychology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs MA in Teaching (MAT) MAT Admission Information MAT Degree Requirements / Coursework Certification Information (OPP) MAT Joint Programs Global Programs Undergraduate Study Abroad Carpenter Embedded Global Classroom Baylor Education in Costa Rica Graduate Study Abroad Explore our Programs Apply Tk20 Info Tk20 Login for Student/Faculty For Students For Cooperating Teachers For Faculty Outreach & Applied Research Partnerships Professional Development Schools What is a PDS? The Co-Teach Model Partner School Districts Greater Waco Area Superintendents Impact Living-Learning Center Centers Baylor Center for School Leadership Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development University for Young People (UYP) UYP 2020 Fall GT Conference Super Saturdays Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities Clinic for Assessment, Research and Education (CARE) Contact CARE Donate to CARE CARE Mission and Goals CARE Community Programs Skill Building Program Problem Behavior Support Clinic Feeding Support Program Baylor Autism Resource Clinic Grants & Initiatives Research Stories Professional Development for Educators Summer Literacy Institute Fall GT Conference Mathematics Teacher Academy 2019 MTA Facebook Album 2018 MTA Facebook Album 2017 MTA Facebook Album Social Studies Academy 2019 Social Studies Summer Summit Mathematics for Teachers of Early Learners (MTEL) Map Academies & Institutes of BCSL (Baylor Center for School Leadership) Baylor Beginning Teacher Institute Summer Superintendents Institute Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar Faculty Meet the Faculty Faculty Positions Assistant Professor in Curriculum & Instruction Clinical Assistant Professor of ELementary Education Professor and Department Chair of Educational Leadership Clinical Assistant or Clinical Associate Professor of School Psychology (Dallas campus) Assistant or Associate Professor of School Psychology (Waco campus) Grants & Initiatives Centers Students Prospective Undergraduates Why a BSEd at Baylor? Degree Planners & Certification Areas FAQs Visit the School of Education SOE Glossary Student Spotlights Transfer Students Impact Living-Learning Center Meet Dr. Neil Shanks Meet Your Major Podcast Prospective Graduate Students Advising and Degree Programs Schedule an Advising Appointment Meet the Advisors Degree Planners & Certification Areas Degree Planners 2019 - beyond Degree Planners - 2018 Apply to Graduate Advising FAQs Equivalent Courses Tool for Baylor Baylor Undergraduate Catalog Give Feedback Certification Information Complaint Policy Office of Professional Practice (OPP) Certification Information Testing for Certification (all programs) Criminal History Evaluations Texas Requirements & Process for Certification Baylor Process for Admittance to Teacher Education Program (undergraduate & MAT) Baylor Process for Admittance to Superintendent Certification Program (EdD in K-12) Baylor Process for Admittance to Principal Certification Program (MA in School Leadership) Benefits and Waivers for Military Service Members Baylor University Technology Practices in Teaching and Learning Complaint Process Action Research 2022 Action Research Symposium 2021 Action Research Program 2019 Action Research Monograph Schedule A Visit Visits: Prospective Undergraduate Students Visits: Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships for Undergraduates Student Profiles Student Services Advising Learning Resources Center (LRC) Student Wellness Services Professional Meeting Support for Undergraduates Kappa Delta Pi Action Research Student Advisory Council Professional Licensure Information MEET the SOE podcast Alumni Alumni Awards Keep in Touch Alumni Profiles Update Your Information Impact Newsletter Online Homecoming Centennial News News and Announcements News Blog: Instant Impact Impact Newsletter Online SOE in the News SOE Social Media Information for Media SOE Coronavirus Updates SOE Coronavirus FAQ Make a Gift