Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Current Openings Student Fundraiser Positions Student Fundraiser Online Application Student Office Positions Watson Internship Benefits Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Need help making a gift? Call 866-419-6768 Iowa State Logo Give Now Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Search Content: Your Next Career Move Forward . . . Ready to use your workday to contribute to something greater? Is a mission to cultivate and share valuable knowledge to transform our world something you can get behind? As our nation’s first land-grant institution, Iowa State University carries out this mission each day. And as the Iowa State University Foundation, we help the university reach new levels of greatness through philanthropy. In true Iowa State spirit, we are inspired by our purpose and work together to move the university forward. We pride ourselves on expertly matching our donors’ desires with Iowa State’s needs, creating a gratifying experience for our contributors and engaging careers for our employees. We have world-class talent who understand the transformative power of philanthropy. We’re not afraid to roll up our sleeves and do the hard work to get the best results. This is the place for the next change-agent – you! To see our current job openings here. Our Beliefs Wondering if you and the foundation are a good fit? Here’s a quick list of our beliefs. We place donors at the heart of our work and the decisions we make. Private gifts have the power to advance higher education, which transforms lives and communities. We adhere to the highest standards of professional and ethical conduct in all aspects of our business. We honor and respect our donors’ intentions. We are accountable to each other, our donors and the university. Our goals are achieved as a team. We respect our colleagues – as individuals and professionals – and we assume positive intent as we work together. We value inclusiveness, and strive to ensure that multiple perspectives are represented in our work. Collaboration and innovation are critically important to our success. We use data to drive organizational success. We build trust through open, transparent communication. Home Careers Current Openings Student Fundraiser Positions Student Office Positions Watson Internship Benefits Iowa State Highlights Living in Ames A great place to live, work and play, Ames is a vibrant and inclusive community known for its healthy economy, flourishing cultural environment and the world-renowned Iowa State University. Livability Ames/Story County, Iowa 2020 Reasons to say "THANK YOU" $1,542,356,968 Since the start of the Forever True, For Iowa State campaign, donors like you helped us exceed our historic $1.5 billion goal! “Scholarship support enhances my time at Iowa State and allows me to see the world while also gaining an amazing education.” - Margaret Leligdon, Junior, Civil Engineering Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are 2505 University Boulevard, P.O. Box 2230, Ames, Iowa 50010-2230, 866.419.6768. Copyright ©2016, Iowa State University Foundation. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Back to Top