Skip to main content Iowa State University Office of Admissions Menu Toggle Search Visit Apply My Account Main navigation Admissions Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Graduate Admissions Next Steps / Timeline Financial Aid Request info Contact Us Related Links Nontraditional Nondegree Veterinary Medicine Military Why ISU Academics Academics Academic Programs Colleges Transfer Credit Credit by Exam Orientation Honors Program Learning Communities Apply Visit Related Links Course Equivalency Guides Transfer Plans TRANSIT Supplementary Course List Admissions Partnership Program Destination Iowa State Cost + Aid Campus Living Campus Living Housing ISU Dining Diversity and Inclusion International Students and Scholars Clubs and Organizations Recreation Services Student Health Athletics Apply Visit Related Links Student Leaders Sorority and Fraternity Entertainment Traditions Distinguished Alumni Why ISU Visit Application Directions to Campus Visit Log in Schedule an On-Campus Visit Latino Family Visit Day Multicultural Student Experience Day Daily On-Campus Visit Experience Iowa State Admitted Student Options Transfer Student Visit Days Group Visits Visitors Guide Directions to Campus Evaluate Your Visit Meet the STARS Easy on the eyes. Easy to find. Iowa State University is located in Ames, Iowa. Interstate 35 runs north and south just east of Ames, and U.S. Highway 30 runs east and west just south of campus. Directions to Ames by car and from the Des Moines International Airport. Campus Visits Parking If you are traveling to Ames via Interstate 35, take Exit 111B labeled "30 West." Travel west on Highway 30, then take Exit 146, the "University Boulevard/ISU" exit. Drive north on University Boulevard to Lincoln Way (the fourth traffic light). At Lincoln Way, turn left (west) past Hilton Coliseum and C.Y. Stephens Auditorium. Campus visitors to Iowa State University may park in the parking ramp attached to the Memorial Union where your program will be held. The ramp is located at the south edge of campus at the Lincoln-Way/Lynn Avenue intersection. Entering the Memorial Union Parking Ramp. South entrance – When traveling west on Lincoln Way, immediately after the traffic signal at Ash Avenue there is an entrance to the parking ramp. Turn right (north) into that entrance. You can also turn right on Lynn and immediately right again into the south entrance. Transfer OnCyte Orientation Parking We encourage you to park in the Memorial Union Parking Ramp attached to the east side of the Memorial Union. You will be provided one free parking voucher during check-in. If you are bringing more than one vehicle or the parking ramp is unavailable, free parking is available at the commuter lot located at the Iowa State Center. The fare-free CyRide Orange 23 Route picks up from the commuter lot and stops at the north entrance of the Memorial Union (estimated 12-15 minutes travel time). Freshman OnCyte Orientation Parking Orientation parking is available in Lot 63, east of the Maple-Willow-Larch Residence Halls. When you arrive on campus, stop at the parking tent near the entrance of Lot 63 to receive your orientation parking pass. Iowa State University Office of Admissions Contact Office of Admissions Enrollment Services Center Ames, IA 50011 Call or text: 515-294-5836 Soults Family Visitors Center 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014 Quick Links New Student Programs Counselor Directory Chat with students and staff Request Information Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Analytics Disclaimer Loading...