Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Hispanic Serving Institution Menu Search TTU Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Office of Institutional Diversity HSI About HSI Hispanic Faculty at Texas Tech Faculty who self-identify as Hispanic and/or who teach courses or conduct research related to Hispanic and Mexican-American issues First Name Last Name Position Title Department Description Angela Y. Alejandro Instructor College of Education Britta Anderson Assistant Professor Classical and Modern Lang and Literatures Adelia J. Aquino Assoc Professor of Practice College of Engineering Irene Arellano Instructor College of Education Lucy Arellano Associate Professor College of Education Aaron M. Arreola Asst Professor of Practice College of Arts and Sciences Cordelia Barrera Associate Professor English Julie A. Barton Instructor College of Education Genelda L. Bedolla Instructor College of Education Corye L. Beene Instructor Support Nicholas B. Bergfeld Instructor Rawls College of Business Administration Mario Beruvides Professor College of Engineering Raquel Bitar Lecturer College of Architecture Maria G. Brito Instructor College of Education Beatriz E. Buford Buford Instructor College of Education Marcus A. Burke Assistant Professor College of Arts and Sciences Yvonne Caldera Professor Human Development and Family Studies Yvonne M. Caldera Professor College of Human Sciences Maria A. Calle Madrid Assistant Professor College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Galo Canizares Lecturer College of Architecture Graciela M. Cano Instructor College of Education Delia Carrizales Assistant Professor Education Aryn L. Corley Corley Instructor College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Leslie M. Cuevas Assistant Professor College of Human Sciences Joseph B. Dannemiller Instructor College of Engineering Esther De Leon Associate Librarian Library Vanessa de Leon Assistant Professor College of Education Francisco Delgadillo Assoc Professor of Practice Rawls College of Business Administration Heather A. Deschane Instructor College of Education Idoia Elola Professor Classical and Modern Lang and Literature Roxanne S. Faison Instructor College of Arts and Sciences Kristina Fisher Lecturer College of Architecture Nadia Y. Flores Associate Professor College of Arts and Sciences Raymond A. Flores Associate Professor College of Education Sylvia Flores Instructor College of Arts and Sciences Maritza L. Frieson Instructor College of Education Andres Gandara Lecturer College of Architecture Arlene Garcia Research Assistant Professor College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Elizabell N. Garcia Instructor College of Education Imelda J. Garcia Instructor College of Arts and Sciences Ricardo Garcia Instructor College of Education Elisandra Garcia-Gonzalez Lecturer College of Architecture Sherice N. Gearhart Associate Professor College of Media and Communicatn Michael D. Gomez Instructor College of Arts and Sciences Luis E. Grave De Peralta Professor College of Arts and Sciences Sara Guengerich Associate Professor College of Arts and Sciences Paola Guerrero Rodriguez Classical and Modern Lang and Literature Patricia H. Hawley Professor College of Education Jeffery L. Hernandez Instructor College of Visual and Perf Arts Luis R. Herrera Estrella Professor College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Lucinda L. Holt Instructor College of Media and Communicatn William H. Hornberger Instructor School of Law David L. Hougland Instructor College of Media and Communicatn Evangeline Jimenez Instructor Dept of Theatre and Dance Rosalinda Jimenez Associate Professor TTUHSC SON Lourdes Juan Associate Professor College of Arts and Sciences Yvonne C. Khan Instructor College of Education Miguel A. Levario Associate Professor College of Arts and Sciences Vinicius S. Machado Assistant Professor College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Kathryn V. Magana TTU Post Doc Teaching Scholar College of Arts and Sciences Victor H. Maldonado Associate Professor College of Engineering Christopher J. Marin Instructor College of Visual and Perf Arts Claudia Marquez Instructor College of Education Silvia L. Martinez Instructor College of Education Tony J. Martinez Asst Professor of Practice College of Media and Communicatn Ricardo Molina Instructor College of Education Cecilia Monclova-Santana Assistant Professor College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Sergio A. Montelongo Jauregui Instructor College of Education Nanette Montes Instructor College of Education Linda Musquiz Instructor College of Education Robert A. Nunez Instructor College of Education Yancy L. Nunez Instructor College of Arts and Sciences Ida C. Ovalle Instructor College of Media and Communicatn Magdalena Pando Instructor College of Education Damian V. Pantoya Instructor Rawls College of Business Administration Jesse Perez Mendez Dean College of Education Rosa O. Ramos Instructor College of Architecture Bernd Reiter Professor Classical and Modern Lang and Literature Samantha J. Resendez Instructor College of Visual and Perf Arts Kelly J. Reyna Instructor College of Visual and Perf Arts Kelly Riccitelli Assoc Professor of Practice College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Armando Rigau Yumet Lecturer College of Architecture Rudolph A. Ritz Associate Professor College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Paul S. Ruiz Instructor University Studies Arquimedes Ruiz-Columbie Instructor Texas Tech University Jeannette M. Saenz-Azua Instructor College of Education Lauryn C. Salazar Associate Professor College of Visual and Perf Arts Matthew G. Saldana Instructor Texas Tech University Rene Saldana Associate Professor College of Education Nancy I. Salinas Burgett Instructor College of Education Cinthia P. Salinas Gonzalez Instructor College of Education Marcos X. Sanchez Plata Associate Professor College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Stephanie L. Sang Delgado Lecturer College of Architecture Rosa I. Santiago Instructor College of Education Marcelo R. Schmidt Assistant Professor College of Education Leon Shturman Instructor College of Engineering Catherine S. Soderberg Visiting Asst Professor College of Architecture Paola A. Tiedemann Research Assistant Professor College of Arts and Sciences Ana B. Torres Instructor College of Education Mary Alice Torres-Macdonald Associate Professor College of Architecture Fernando Valle Department Chairperson Education Natasja C. Van Gestel Assistant Professor College of Arts and Sciences Providencia Velazquez Instructor College of Architecture Rosandra M. Villalobos Instructor College of Education Dino A. Villegas Pizarro Assoc Professor of Practice Rawls College of Business Administration Tiffiny B. Vincent Instructor Support Kent Wilkinson Professor JOUR and Creative Media Industries Lesley A. Wolff Assistant Professor College of Visual and Perf Arts Mary A. Zavala Instructor College of Education Hispanic Serving Institution Like Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on FacebookLike Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Facebook Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitterFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitter Subscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTubeSubscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTube Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on InstagramFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Instagram Address P.O. Box 5024 Lubbock, Texas, 79409-5024; Admin Building, Suite 233 Phone 806-742-7025 Email diversity@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 20, 2021 2:21 PM Hispanic Serving Institution About Hispanic Serving Institution Back About HSI Hispanic Serving Institution About HSI Back What is HSI? Glossary of Terms Programs & Initiatives Development, Resource & Professional Affiliations Hispanic Faculty at Texas Tech Data Hispanic Serving Institution Back Historical Enrollment Data Rankings The History of Achieving HSI status Hispanic Serving Institution The History of Achieving HSI status Back Achieving HSI Status HSI Timeline RAISE Committee Message from the President Message from the Provost Opportunities & Events Hispanic Serving Institution Back Students Hispanic Serving Institution Back Scholarships Resources Grants Hispanic Serving Institution Back Students Research/Outreach Frequently Asked Questions News & Events Hispanic Serving Institution Back Events News Releases Community Profiles Additional Resources Hispanic Serving Institution Back TTU Resources Hispanic Serving Institution Back DDEI website Harris Institute Latino Hispanic Faculty & Staff Association External Resources Hispanic Serving Institution External Resources Back Texas HSI Consortium DOE HSI website HACU Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index