Skip to main content Search Giving Contact Make a Gift Cullen College of Engineering Mechanical Engineering Main menu About Message from the Chair UH Calendar Open Positions A Decade of Progress Contact Us People Faculty Staff Alumni Research Research Areas Faculty Expertise Laboratories & Facilities Centers and Consortia Seminars CTFM Seminars Theses and Dissertations Industrial Relations Undergraduate Overview Accreditation Admissions Program Administration Curriculum Flow Chart Advising Information Societies & Organizations Capstone Design Scholarships Graduate Overview Admissions Degree Programs Online Graduate Degrees Non-Degree Certificate Programs Graduate Courses Degree Plans Resources Advising Scholarships Graduate Student Association Resources Forms Online Programs UH-Extend Online ME Graduate Programs Online Graduate Degrees Online Programs at the Cullen College News News Momentum Magazine UH Mechanical Engineering We are engineering all that makes our society go, from mechanical and electromechanical machinery to new materials and technologies to engineering sensors and medical devices, our academic programs offer depth of knowledge in fluid mechanics, dynamics, materials, and thermal and mechanical system design. Be part of UH MECE. UH Mechanical Engineering We are engineering all that makes our society go, from mechanical and electromechanical machinery to new materials and technologies to engineering sensors and medical devices, our academic programs offer depth of knowledge in fluid mechanics, dynamics, materials, and thermal and mechanical system design. Be part of UH MECE. Research Excellence Coatings and Materials Corrosion is a trillion-dollar problem for industry each year, and an important part of combating that issue is proper coating. Engineering covers… Learn more Energy Systems, Infrastructure and Renewables Faculty in our Department address societal challenges in energy, infrastructure, and renewables. Their research encompasses subsea systems, energy… Learn more Biomechanics, Sensors and Devices UH researchers are improving medical robotics with semiconductors, developing drawn-on-skin electronics to monitor health conditions, and have… Learn more Mechanics and Dynamics Researching physical science fundamentals of the effects of forces on the motion of objects and the action of forces on objects with mass, our… Learn more Computational Mechanics The ability to model and account for a wide range of possibilities is more important than ever today. Whether developing and applying numerical… Learn more Thermal Phenomena Researchers at UH aren’t just working with theoretical concepts — They are also focused on examining the practical, and why there are deviations from… Learn more View Faculty By Research Area Prospective Students Learn More Current Students Learn More Fast Facts 214 BSME DEGREES AWARDED IN 2020 24 TENURE-TRACK FACULTY 3 NSF CAREER AWARD-WINNING FACULTY TOP 20 ONLINE M.S. PROGRAM In The News Ramirez describes path from Bogota to UH to Tesla Cullen recognizes efforts of faculty, students with 2021-22 Excellence Awards ME, IE grad programs improve in latest U.S. News & World Report rankings View More News Upcoming Seminars Learn More Department Updates Learn More Faculty Openings Learn More The UH Mechanical Engineering Graduate Programs The Graduate Program in Mechanical Engineering provides our students with an educational experience grounded in the engineering sciences and focused on producing a professional capable of systematically applying those sciences to solve real-world problems. Learn More Subsea Engineering The University of Houston is the global leader of the subsea engineering field. Home to the nation’s first subsea engineering graduate program, the Cullen College leads the international effort to standardize subsea engineering education at universities around the world. Learn More Aerospace Engineering Students in the interdisciplinary aerospace engineering program are trained to understand full systems involved in aerospace engineering, from aerodynamics and materials to space physics and human factors. Learn More Momentum Research Milestones in Mechanical Engineering Learn More Engines of Our Ingenuity A radio program that tells the story of how our culture is formed by human creativity Learn More MECE Advisor's Tweets Departmental advising feed for UH Mechanical Engineering Learn More Contact University of Houston Cullen College of Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering Engineering Building 1, Room N207 4226 Martin Luther King Boulevard Houston, TX 77204-4006 Phone: 713-743-4500 Contact Us Quick Links About People Research Undergraduate Graduate Resources Online Programs News MAKE A GIFT ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. UH Home Academic Calendar Campus Maps Emergency UH System Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies About Message from the Chair UH Calendar Open Positions A Decade of Progress Contact Us People Faculty Staff Alumni Research Research Areas Faculty Expertise Laboratories & Facilities Centers and Consortia Seminars CTFM Seminars Theses and Dissertations Industrial Relations Undergraduate Overview Accreditation Admissions Program Administration Curriculum Flow Chart Advising Information Societies & Organizations Capstone Design Scholarships Graduate Overview Admissions Degree Programs Online Graduate Degrees Non-Degree Certificate Programs Graduate Courses Degree Plans Resources Advising Scholarships Graduate Student Association Resources Forms Online Programs UH-Extend Online ME Graduate Programs Online Graduate Degrees Online Programs at the Cullen College News News Momentum Magazine