Students with Children - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services Resources Students Students with Children Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students Greek Life International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ UH Resources Undocumented Students COVID-19 Resources ADHD/ LD/ Autism Assessment Students with Children Parenting and going to school simultaneously is difficult to juggle. Both can be full-time jobs, and this is often overwhelming, especially for single parents. Many college parents are forced to delegate their time between parenting, academics, employment, family commitments and a host of other responsibilities. The good news is that thousands of parents graduate from college every year with the necessary resources to provide a better life for their children. Many may do so by following 7 tips for parents in college. This is not to say that this is an easy task. College parents often have to worry about childcare, health insurance (especially if leaving a current job to pursue a degree), money for tuition, money for books, living expenses, etc. There are resources in place to help you succeed Stressed about finding a babysitter? Check the Children's Learning Centers Get to know your peers! They could be a great support system. Center for Student Involvement Save money by attending events on campus! Many are family-friendly and offered at a discounted rate to students. Campus Calendar Check out the UH Distance Education Program. You may be able to take classes toward your degree online or at an off-campus teaching center. See if you qualify for financial aid. You may be eligible for assistance or scholarships. Stay healthy! Keep up your energy to meet all your demands. Campus Recreation and Wellness Center Need health insurance? Read about options at the Student Health Center. Take care of your mental health! Talk with a trained professional if you are having difficulties. Remember, it is just as important to keep your mind healthy as it is your body. Related Links Tips for Parents in College Children's Learning Centers Center for Student Involvement Campus Calendar UH Distance Education Program Financial Aid Campus Recreation and Wellness Center Student Health Center University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies