Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Student Handbook Student Handbook: Academic Programs and Affiliations Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) The Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) degree is HGSE’s initial research-based doctoral offering. Consistent with the purpose of doctoral study, the capstone of the Ed.D. program is conducting original research on an important question within the field of education that culminates in a dissertation. The final Ed.D. cohort enrolled in fall 2013; HGSE now offers a Doctor of Philosophy in Education degree, as described below. Further detail about program-specific requirements and policies can be found on the program website and in relevant sections of this handbook. Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) In the fall of 2014, HGSE transitioned from offering a Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) degree to offering a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Education degree. The Ph.D. in Education is an interdisciplinary, joint degree offered in collaboration with Harvard’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS) and replaced the Ed.D. to better signal our program’s research emphasis and to strengthen ties with academic departments across the university. The Ph.D. also culminates with a dissertation rooted in original research. Further detail about program-specific requirements and policies can be found on the program website, in relevant sections of this handbook, and in the GSAS Student Handbook. Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) The Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) is a three year, full-time, practice-based program including core coursework, elective coursework, and a third-year residency with one of the program’s partner organizations. The degree culminates with a capstone documenting the student’s leadership of and contributions to a strategic project within the organization. Further detail about program-specific requirements and policies can be found on the program website and in relevant sections of this handbook. Master of Education (Ed.M.) The Master of Education (Ed.M.) is a yearlong, intensive program for students who wish to study a particular field in education, acquire a general theoretical background for understanding past and future field experiences, or develop skills for use in professional work in education. A thesis or comprehensive exam is not required. Further detail about program-specific requirements and policies can be found on individual program Hub pages and in relevant sections of this handbook. Online Master of Education Leadership (Online Ed.M.) The online Master of Education (Ed.M.) in Education Leadership (OEL) is a mostly online, part-time, two-year program for experienced professionals in the preK–12 and Higher Education sectors. The primarily prescribed curriculum is geared toward students with at least seven years of relevant work experience who are seeking to strengthen the invaluable skills already developed and develop additional tools to propel them toward new leadership opportunities and greater impact. Further detail about program-specific requirements and policies can be found on the OEL program website and in relevant sections of this handbook. Certificate of Advanced Study (C.A.S.) in Counseling The Prevention Science and Practice (PSP) and the Human Development and Education (HDE) master’s programs are approved by the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE) to offer a two-year curricular sequence leading to initial licensure in school counseling. Further detail about program-specific requirements and policies can be found on the program handbook. Concentrations The Harvard Graduate School of Education offers six optional concentrations: Arts and Learning (A&L), Early Childhood (EC), Global, International, and Comparative Education (GICE), Higher Education (HE), Identity, Power, and Justice in Education (IPJE), and Language and Literacy (L&L). Declaring a concentration offers advanced study, applied learning, and co-curricular activities to deepen knowledge in one of the six disciplines. Students may declare one concentration. Double concentrations are not permitted. Non-degree Study The Harvard Graduate School of Education offers students the opportunity to take graduate-level courses without formally pursuing an HGSE degree. To be eligible for non-degree study, students must fall into one of the categories below. Some of these categories allow students to enroll in courses and receive academic credit; others allow students to do research or audit courses. It is the responsibility of all non-degree students to meet registration deadlines (see the Academic Calendar). Non-degree students are ineligible for financial aid, health insurance, housing, or office space. Students should note that professors reserve the right to limit courses to degree-seeking students if it is determined that the enrollment of non-degree students is counter-productive to the goals of the course. This right is not limited to courses designated as “limited enrollment.” HGSE also reserves the right to terminate the registration, and/or to disallow any future registration, of any HGSE non-degree student who, in the judgment of the school, receives an unsatisfactory grade or whose behavior in any way interferes with the academic or other operations of the university. For information about obtaining credit toward an HGSE degree program for courses taken as a non-degree student, see Credit for Prior Course Work. Harvard Employees The Harvard Graduate School of Education allows individuals who are Harvard University employees to enroll in HGSE courses and pay for their HGSE tuition by using the Tuition Assistance Plan (TAP). For more information on Harvard-wide TAP policies. Online master's students will not be eligible to use TAP outside of the AY22-23 cohort. Harvard Graduate School of Education Alumni HGSE degree holders may enroll for credit in one course (or its equivalent in credits) per semester by registering during the designated period for HGSE non-degree registration and submitting a petition via my.harvard by the course enrollment deadline. No application is necessary, but degree holders are expected to pay for the course, at the current one-course tuition rate, upon receipt of the student bill. Professional Education Participants The Harvard Graduate School of Education has numerous opportunities for educators to expand their skills. Onsite and online, the programs are designed for teachers, principals, administrators, and policymakers. For information about these professional development opportunities, please visit Professional Education. Visiting Fellows A select number of visiting fellows may be admitted for a period of enrollment of three months to one year. This option is available for advanced doctoral students at other universities who are conducting relevant research and who have appropriate funding (for instance, from a grant or fellowship). Each visiting fellow must be sponsored by an HGSE faculty member and must be approved by the Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs. Special Student in Education (SSE) Applicants who wish to study without the constraints of a formal degree program may apply to be a Special Student in Education (SSE). Individuals applying for SSE status fall into one of three categories: faculty from institutions other than Harvard wishing to take courses for credit; advanced doctoral students conducting relevant research; or professional educators seeking to enhance current work. A limited number of applicants are admitted in this category each year. Course enrollment is on a space-available basis and is limited to HGSE courses only. Once admitted, a student’s official enrollment in a course is subject to the approval of the instructor. SSE students are not eligible for HGSE funding, housing, or office space. Voucher Holders HGSE issues tuition vouchers to teachers and other practitioners who supervise HGSE students in a variety of educational settings. These vouchers can be used to cover basic tuition requirements for degree and non-degree students, as well as (with certain limitations) in any faculty allowing HGSE cross-registration or in the Division of Continuing Education. HGSE course enrollment is on a space-available basis. A student’s official enrollment in a course is subject to the approval of the instructor. Please note the following voucher policies: Voucher holders are allowed to redeem only one voucher per semester. Vouchers must be redeemed before the designated expiration date. Voucher holders are not eligible for HGSE funding, housing, office space. Vouchers are not eligible for courses offered at Professional Education. In this section Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Student Handbook Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice