Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Wichita Research Office of Research-Wichita Center for Clinical Research-Wichita Center for Research for Infant Birth and Survival CRIBS Board of Directors CRIBS Symposium Human Research Protection Program-Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Wichita Academics Academics M.D. Program-Wichita MPH Program Graduate Medical Education-Wichita Academic & Student Affairs-Wichita George J. Farha Medical Library Simulation Center JayDoc Community Clinic Research School of Medicine Wichita Research Research Office of Research-Wichita Center for Clinical Research-Wichita Center for Research for Infant Birth and Survival CRIBS Board of Directors CRIBS Symposium Human Research Protection Program-Wichita Patient Care Patient Care Medical Practice Association & Clinics Affiliate KU Wichita Clinics JayDoc Community Clinic School-Based Health Care Outreach Outreach Community Programs Student Life Student Life The BEAT Academic & Student Affairs Healthy Hawks About About Dean Minns Campus Maps Departments News Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Support the School 4-Wichita Healthy Hawks Support Services Events Calendar Simulation Center William J. Reals Gallery of Art George J. Farha Medical Library Living in Wichita Research Center for Research for Infant Birth and Survival (CRIBS) Overview Each year, 200 Kansas infants die before their first birthday. The purpose of the Center for Research for Infant Birth and Survival (CRIBS) is to eradicate preventable infant death in Kansas. CRIBS will do this by providing expertise in program evaluation, research, dissemination and implementation of evidence-based practices related to maternal and infant health. In addition, CRIBS will develop an implementation network in which to roll out programs and best practices throughout the state. Current Projects Baby Talk Prenatal Education Program (Sedgwick County): Baby Talk is designed to address key causes of infant mortality. It serves pregnant women who are at high risk for poor birth outcomes, and their support people. Participants attend six two-hour classes promoting evidence-based health and safety practices. This project is funded by a Kansas Department of Health and Environment Aid to Local grant. Lifting Young Families Towards Excellence: LYFTE improves the lives of young families, parents and children, through an integrated approach to life-skills development focusing on health, education and employment. LYFTE navigators work one-on-one with eligible participants on individualized goal attainment in the priority areas of personal health, positive parenting, family relationships, education and career aspirations. In addition, clients are connected to local services to support physical, social and emotional health. All sessions are offered at convenient locations for participants. This project is funded by the Office of Adolescent Health and the KDHE. Access to Perinatal Mental Health Care in Sedgwick County: This project will provide baseline data to develop action steps to address the topic of equity in access to perinatal mental health services. Barriers will be identified through interviews with low-income pregnant or recently delivered women, primary care providers and mental health providers. Action steps will be developed with community experts to improve mental health access in Sedgwick County. This project is funded by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment through the Kansas Maternal and Child Health (MCH) Opportunity Project. See the MCH Opportunity Project Community Report. Statewide Safe Sleep Instructor Training: In partnership with the KIDS Network, a certification program was developed to imbed regional Safe Sleep Instructors across the state. Certified Safe Sleep Instructors provide standardized education to professionals and families regarding the American Academy of Pediatrics Safe Sleep Guidelines. Instructors also are trained to facilitate community safe sleep baby showers, assist hospitals in receiving national certification for safe sleep through Cribs for Kids©, and embed the Safe Sleep Toolkit in outpatient physician offices. The project is funded in part by a KDHE Aid to Local grant and Agency for Healthcare Research Quality (AHRQ) grant 1R13HS027541. Concerns regarding the COVID-19 pandemic: Pregnant and recently delivered women were surveyed regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on behaviors related to their pregnancy and infant care. Results identified engagement in risk-reduction behaviors, but also changes in mental, employment and financial status as a result of the pandemic. This project was funded by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment. See the infographic for details. In This Section In This Section CRIBS Board of Directors CRIBS Symposium Get Involved CRIBS is currently seeking clinical and community partners! If you are interested in helping us reduce infant mortality in Kansas, contact: cribs@kumc.edu KU School of Medicine-Wichita 1010 North Kansas Wichita, KS 67214-3199 316-293-2635 Facebook Wichita Twitter Wichita Youtube Wichita LinkedIn Wichita Instagram Wichita Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.