Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » Current UHP Students » Learning Portfolios » Reflection Set Navigation title in component UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences Honors Seminars Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved UHP Ambassadors Meet the Team Madalyn O'Dea Somya Sharma Zakaria Bodiford Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP Welcome Experience Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Reflection What is Reflection? Reflection is the act of thinking critically about an experience in order to gain greater clarity or understanding. This process of evaluating our actions helps us learn from our experiences and deepens our understanding of the world. Reflection is a critical component of experiential learning. When you reflect, you should not merely summarize the activities you completed and opinions formed. Rather, your reflection should be thoughtful, integrative, and substantive and share what you learned. Whenever possible, provide specific examples from your experiences that support your thoughts. Why Reflect? Reflection provides an opportunity to analyze our thoughts, behaviors, and actions to gain a better understanding of ourselves and the world. We can isolate instances in which we were successful or we need to improve and learn from these experiences. Reflection also allows us to make connections between academic classes, experiences, and other aspects of our lives. On a very practical level, reflection helps us synthesize and articulate our learning. This is especially important when interviewing and writing applications for graduate school, jobs, internships, or nationally competitive awards/scholarships. How do I Reflect? The University Honors Program encourages students to use a very basic model: What? So What? Now What? As with anything, some people find reflection very easy whereas other need a bit more practice. Here are several brainstorming activities that can help you get started: Free writing Mind mapping Create a life trajectory Alternative Forms of Reflection Although a written journal is very common form of reflection, there are many other ways you can reflect. It is less important which format you use and more important that you are pushing yourself to balance sharing details with big picture take-aways. By answering all three reflective questions (what? so what? now what?), you are more likely to complete a thoughtful, integrated reflection. If the format for reflection you choose is not written, you must include 2-3 paragraphs explaining what you created and how it explains the what? so what? and now what? of an experience. Interested in the the theory behind reflection? Check out the UHP Theoretical Framework page! Listen to Charles McCombs' audio blog for his honors experience, "Career Exploration in Health Care." Examples of Reflection Formats Maintain a written journal Create a service contract and log Participate in structured group dialogues Maintain a written, audio, or video blog Maintain a sketchbook Maintain a lab notebook Create a scrapbook Develop a cookbook with personal narratives Participate in and/or lead an online discussion board Develop a collection of photographs with written captions Create a short video Write song lyrics, a musical composition, or a poem Paint a picture or create a sculpture Write a letter to a friend, member of the community, or public official Interpretive dance or performance Tips for Effective Reflection Develop a list of guiding questions that will help focus your reflection and ensure that you are addressing the three reflective questions (what? so what? now what?) If using an auditory form of reflection, use transitions (key words, numbers, etc.) to help the listener/viewer keep track of the points you are making. Make sure your reflection is polished and professional. While you might start free writing to get started, your ideas must be cohesive, integrated, and thoughtful. University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top