Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Certificate (Graduate) Apply Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Facilities, Laboratories & Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Graduate Certificate in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Acquire intensive training in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases, injuries and defects of the oral and maxillofacial region with the Graduate Program in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery in the Kornberg School of Dentistry at Temple University. This 30-month, postdoctoral specialty certificate program is part of a six-year dual degree/certificate residency program that comprises an advanced standing Doctor of Medicine (MD) degree and the Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery certificate. The Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery (OMS) certificate curriculum is created in collaboration with the Temple University Lewis Katz School of Medicine and Temple University Health System. Residents are trained to become skilled oral and maxillofacial surgeons, providing surgical and adjunctive treatment of diseases involving both the functional and aesthetic aspects of the hard and soft tissues. Residents also have opportunities to increase and improve patient care in the local community. The program’s curriculum blends didactic and clinical education and is strengthened by general scholarly activities and professional development opportunities. Students gain the skills and training to become professional oral and maxillofacial surgeons, including advanced expertise in oral biology, as well as increased knowledge in the administration of outpatient pediatric anesthesia and research methodology and study design. You will participate in interdisciplinary patient care by working closely with general dentists, oral and maxillofacial prosthodontics, and other postgraduate training programs within the Kornberg School of Dentistry. You will also study the care administered by oral and maxillofacial surgery practices, including implant dentistry, oral pathology and oral medicine, outpatient pediatric anesthesia, and temporomandibular and orthognathic surgery. Oral and maxillofacial surgery is one of the ten dental specialties approved by the American Dental Association. Program Format & Curriculum Students complete the OMS certificate program over a minimum of 30 months, which are dedicated to learning experiences specific to the certificate requirements. The innovative curriculum places significant emphasis on experiential learning supported by various didactic, formal and informal educational experiences. Students complete the program’s CORE lecture series, designed specifically for postdoctoral students, with emphasis on biostatistics and research methodology. Residents also participate in weekly seminars and lectures, in addition to monthly grand rounds with topics ranging from surgical anatomy to professionalism and practice management. The additional program time is allocated to the completion of the MD degree, off-service rotations and general surgery requirements for medical licensure in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Learn more about courses in the OMS Certificate. Certificate Requirements OMS certificate residents participate in weekly seminars and lectures, in addition to monthly grand rounds, with topics ranging from surgical anatomy to professionalism and practice management. Although no formative or summative assessments are required, these curricular elements constitute a part of the longitudinal learning process of the residency. The annual Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery In-service Training Examination measures residents’ clinical knowledge and skills. Residents engage in simulation training exercises throughout their clinical training. Debriefing and formative assessments are integral parts of these exercises. Residents also participate in daily teaching rounds with admitted patients to utilize the principles of directed and case-based learning. While no formal assessments are required, the residents’ engagement and performance in the learning process are noted by the faculty and discussed at debriefing sessions or during the residents’ semi-annual evaluations. In clinical education and experiential learning, residents and faculty engage in ongoing dialogue to assess residents’ knowledge base, skills, preparedness and professionalism with respect to direct patient care. Dual Certificate/MD Program Upon completion of the full six-year OMS certificate program with an MD, you will have completed an MD degree; passed the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination; completed the General Surgery training toward eligibility for medical licensure; completed requirements of the OMS certificate program; and demonstrated competency in all aspects of the OMS certificate, residency program, and MD degree. Residents in the program receive a stipend. Once trainees have completed the requirements for the MD degree from the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, they then complete 12 months of general surgery residency in addition to 12 months of Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) post-doctoral training toward the completion of their medical training. The total time completed for the program includes the following. The total time completed for the program includes the following. Oral and maxillofacial surgery: 32 months Medical school: 21 months Anesthesia: four months Pediatric anesthesia: one month General surgery: 14 months ACGME-recognized requirement for licensure: 24 months Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Certificate in Dentistry offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about the tuition rates for the 2021–2022 academic year. Program Contact Dr. Mehran Hossaini is the chair of the Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology, Medicine and Surgery at Temple University's Kornberg School of Dentistry. Phone: 215-707-6294 Email: mehran.hossaini@temple.edu Accreditation The program in oral and maxillofacial surgery is accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation [and has been granted the accreditation status of “approval without reporting requirements (1)”]. The commission is a specialized accrediting body recognized by the United States Department of Education. The Commission on Dental Accreditation can be contacted at 312-440-4653 or at 211 E. Chicago Ave., Chicago, IL, 60611. The commission’s web address is ada.org/en/coda. The Commission on Dental Accreditation has accredited the program in oral and maxillofacial surgery. However, accreditation of the program does not in itself constitute recognition of any dental specialty status. DN-ORMX-DENT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Facilities, Laboratories & Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply