Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Academics & Research Graduate School Skip to Navigation Academics & Research Programs and Training Opportunities Robert Lamb's research in the Galápagos Islands focuses on how the sea urchin and fish herbivores affect the subtidal-reef ecosystem.Graduate training is centered in the academic program, and interdisciplinary inquiry is encouraged. The director of graduate study and other faculty mentors are important guides for students. Other offices provide resources to further your research, teaching, and other professional development. You can learn about the culture by looking at the rules and regulations section, which includes the Academic Code and the Graduate School Handbook. These policies, procedures and practices guide graduate education at Brown. The Graduate School deans and staff are available to assist graduate students. The associate dean for academic affairs is the primary contact for academic matters. Master's students should feel free to call on the associate dean for master's education. Associate deans for professional and student development are available to meet with students, as well. Students may also visit the dean of the Graduate School during weekly office hours. Ph.D. Programs Brown University typically awards more than 200 doctor of philosophy degrees each year. The Brown Ph.D. is primarily a research degree. Master's Programs The Brown Graduate School awards master's degrees in the listed programs as terminal degrees or during ordinary progress toward a Ph.D. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Ph.D. Requirements Master's Requirements Fields of Study Post-Baccalaureate Research Education Program (PREP) Fifth-Year Master's Degree Concurrent Bachelor's/Master's Degrees Distinctive Opportunities Graduate Advising and Mentoring Rules & Regulations Course Registration Research Professional Development Training Opportunities, Events & Tools Partnerships & Exchanges Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants