Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate Welcome Programs Faculty Research Admissions & Current Students FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate Finance Course Catalog Finance (B.B.A.) Finance, Real Estate Concentration (B.B.A.) Minors Banking and Financial ServicesBusiness FinanceReal EstateRisk Management and Insurance Certificates Financial Analyst & Planning Programs Professional Real Estate Tracks Financial AnalystFinancial Planning Master of Science in Business Administration (M.S.B.A.) concentration in Finance Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Business Administration with concentration in Finance Program Rankings Take Action Cook Analytics & Trading Lab Seminars Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home FIR Programs Finance B.B.A. Finance B.B.A. Academic Advisors Mark Alpuente (FIR Advisor) 901.678.2855 | email Trellis Morgan (Undergraduate Student Services Manager) 901.678.2855 | email Career Advisors Dr. Jeff Black (FIR Undergraduate Tracks) 901.678.3632 | email Dr. Pankaj Jain (Interim Department Chair) 901.678.5930 | email Dr. Ronald W. Spahr (Banking and Corporate Finance Tracks) 901.678.1747 | email Napoleon Overton (CFA Exam Track) 901.678.3409 | email Dr. Jeff Black (CFP Exam Track) 901.678.3632 | email Dr. Konstantin Sokolov (FinTech and Internships) 901-678-3345 | email Career Opportunities Finance is a rigorous and highly respected field of study that prepares students for many career options. The flexible tracks offered within the finance major allows students to tailor their coursework to open additional career opportunities in banking, financial analysis, financial planning and corporate finance. The finance major provides students with basic problem-solving and analytical tools necessary to be successful in the wide range of opportunities which exist, including careers in financial analysts, budget analysts, loan officers, stockbrokers, portfolio managers, investment brokers and other financial advisors. According to US government sources, employment in many finance areas is expected to grow faster than average in the future. Job Opportunities Whether working in private industry, government, or for non-profit organizations, you can: Develop and monitor operating budgets and financial control systems. Perform project and capital budgeting analysis and develop feasibility studies. Analyze the profitability of alternative investment options and make recommendation of likely investment outcomes. Become a Vice President of Commercial Lending serving the financing need of business, which may lead to being a Bank President Manage savings institutions, credit unions and finance companies Conduct securities analysis, manage mutual funds, advise investors, and design optimal investment portfolios Design and promote financial products for insurance companies, banks, securities firms and other financial institutions Scholarships and Internships Many scholarship opportunities are available for qualified students majoring in finance. Internships are available in industrial corporations, banks, thrift institutions and securities firms. FPA, FMA and Investment Club Financial Planners Association and Financial Management Association and National Honor Society: The UofM Chapters for FPA and FMA bring together its members and local professionals through invited lecture and visit to local financial institutions. Students with GPA of 3.25 and higher are inducted into the Association's National Honor Society. Also, the TVA Investment Challenge team manages a portfolio of stock of over $500,000. Student teams also participate in the CFA institute research challenge. Cook Analytics & Trading Lab The Cook Analytics & Trading Lab offers innovative tools to help supplement traditional classroom teaching and provide resources to help students stay on the cusp of an ever-growing industry. The leading-edge technology and data center allows students to experience pragmatic, hands-on learning in an academic environment, able to run simulations with actual data and observe how their decisions could actually impact the market, with the goal of preparing students to become competent and confident finance professionals. Coursework FIR 3410 – Financial Management (part of FCBE Business Core) Core requirements in the Finance Department: A minimum of 24 upper division semester hours in courses as follows: FIR 3710 - Investments FIR 3720 - Financial Markets Choose 1 or more from the following courses: FIR 4011 - Retirement and Estate Planning (Required for CFP Exam) FIR 4550 - International Finance (Corporate Finance track) FIR 4710 - Commercial Banking (Banking track) FIR 4720 - Management of Financial Institutions (Banking track) FIR 4721 – Fixed Income and Derivatives (CFA Exam track) Choose 1 or more from the following courses: FIR 4620 - Cases in Financial Planning (Required for CFP Exam) FIR 4610 - Cases in Managerial Finance (Corporate Finance and CFP Exam tracks) FIR 4730 - Financial Analysis/Certification (CFA Exam track) Choose 4 courses from the following: FIR 1220 – Personal Financial Management (Helps with CFP) FIR 2811 – Field Experiences in Finance FIR 3310 - Real Estate Principles (Helps with CFP) FIR 3810 – Principles of Risk and Insurance (CFP Exam track) FIR 4011 - Retirement and Estate Planning (Required for CFP Exam) FIR 4310 - Real Estate Law FIR 4320 - Real Estate Finance FIR 4331 - Stock Portfolio Mgmt (CFA Exam track) – Manage real endowment money! FIR 4340 - Real Estate Appraisal FIR 4350 - Real Estate Investment FIR 4440 - Intermediate Managerial Finance (Corporate Finance track) FIR 4550 - International Finance (Helps with CFA Exam) FIR 4610 - Cases in Managerial Finance (Corporate Finance track) FIR 4620 - Cases in Financial Planning (Required for CFP Exam) FIR 4710 - Commercial Banking (Banking track) FIR 4720 - Management of Financial Institutions (Banking track) FIR 4721 – Fixed Income, Derivatives, and More (CFA Exam track) FIR 4730 - Financial Analysis/Certification (CFA Exam track) FIR 4770 - Security Analysis/Portfolio Management (CFA Exam track) FIR 4870 - Risk Management (Required for CFP Exam) FIR 4911 - Internship in Finance, Insurance, Real Estate ACCT 3510 - Federal Income Tax I (Required for CFP Exam) ECON 3610 - Money and Banking MIS 3775 - Database/Information Management Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/10/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.