skip to main content Close Menu Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Disability Services Campus Directory Search San Diego State University Contact About Office of the President Achievements & Distinctions Athletics Aztec Identity Campus Safety Departments and Offices Diversity Gainful Employment Program Disclosures Strategic Plan History and Mission Imperial Valley KPBS Media Relations Required Notices/Consumer Information The SDSU Brand SDSU NewsCenter Social Media Campus Directory Maps and Directions Jobs at SDSU Parking at SDSU Campus Safety Reports Academics Academic Calendars Office of Evaluations Canvas Courses Class Schedule Colleges Credential Programs Curriculum Guide Degrees Departments & Offices SDSU Global Campus General Catalog Graduate Bulletin Graduate and Research Affairs International Programs Library Provost Wait List Weber Honors College WebPortal Campus Directory Maps and Directions Jobs at SDSU Parking at SDSU Campus Safety Reports Admissions Admissions Home Undergraduate Graduate Out-of-State International Veterans Counselors Campus Tours Campus Directory Maps and Directions Jobs at SDSU Parking at SDSU Campus Safety Reports Campus Life Campus Life Home Associated Students Athletics Aztec Recreation Center Campus Events Campus Safety Career Services Counseling and Psych. Services Diversity Economic Crisis Response Team Get Involved Financial Aid & Scholarships Health Services Living on Campus Network Status SDSU Police Sexual Assault Resources Shopping & Dining Veterans WebPortal Campus Directory Maps and Directions Jobs at SDSU Parking at SDSU Campus Safety Reports Give to SDSU Give Now The Campanile Foundation Alumni Engagement Campus Directory Maps and Directions Jobs at SDSU Parking at SDSU Campus Safety Reports Research Research Undergraduate Involvement Centers and Institutes Graduate College Research Foundation Entrepreneurship Campus Directory Maps and Directions Jobs at SDSU Parking at SDSU Campus Safety Reports Menu San Diego State University Contact Welcome to San Diego State University, and thank you for your interest in our campus community. Our teams are here to assist you in finding the information you need. Rely on the resources below, and consider taking a campus tour. Central Postal Address and Telephone Number You can send mail to San Diego State University by directing it to the following address: [Specify Recipient or Department] 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182 (619) 594-5200 Campus Map Search the Campus Directory Admissions Apply to SDSU MyMap: Major Academic Plan Contact the Office of Admissions Undergraduate Admissions In-State Undergraduate Admissions [email protected] Out-of-State Undergraduate Admissions [email protected] International Undergraduate Admissions [email protected] Graduate Admissions Applicants from the U.S. [email protected] International Applicants [email protected] International Admissions International Admissions [email protected] Transfer Admissions Transfer Admissions [email protected] Out-of-State Transfer Admissions [email protected] International Transfer Admissions [email protected] Tuition and Fees Financial Aid & Scholarships Office of Financial Aid & Scholarships Monday–Friday 10 a.m. - 3 p.m. (619) 594-6323 Student Account Services Student Account Services (619) 594-5253 [email protected] Student Services Housing and Residential Education Office of Housing Administration & Residential Education (619) 594-5742 [email protected] Advising SDSU Student Help Desk Phone Hours Monday-Friday 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m. 619-594-5842 [email protected] Seeing an Advisor SDSU offers multiple academic support systems to include advising about general education, major, minor, and other degree requirements, in addition to support and promote student success. This guide will help students find the advising support they need. Office of the Registrar Office of the Registrar Virtual Front Desk Meet with a Representative Virtually Office of the Registrar Contact Form Student Health Services Student Health Services Clinic Hours Monday-Friday 8:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m. (619) 594-4325 Accommodations Student Ability Success Center Calpulli Center 3101 (619) 594-6473 [email protected] Office Hours Monday-Friday 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m. SDSU At a Glance Explore current facts and figures by visiting SDSU At a Glance. Other Contacts For any emergency, dial 9-1-1 Public Safety University Police Department Police Non-Emergency: (619) 594-1991 General Information: (619) 594-3193 Dispatch Fax: (619) 594-8611 Parking and Transportation Parking & Transportation Services (619) 594-6671 [email protected] Commuting & Public Transportation Information Parent Hotline Do you need help navigating the university? Have questions or concerns? Try the Parent Hotline, and a member of the Parent Programs staff will assist you. Phone: (619) 594-1653 Fax: (619) 594-1592 [email protected] More information about the Aztec Parent Programs Technical Support Instructional Technology Services If you require technical assistance, please fill out the support form. Faculty Support (619) 594-6348 (GOFIT) Monday – Thursday: 8 a.m.-5:30 p.m. Friday: 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Classroom Support (619) 594-4357 (4HELP) Monday – Thursday: 7:30 a.m. - 9:40 p.m. Friday: 7:30 a.m.- 4 p.m. Campus Support Services Give Back For more information, visit the SDSU Give website. Donor Relations Contact Information Phone (619) 594-2448 Fax (619) 594-0832 [email protected] Stay Informed Academic Calendars Campus Events Calendar Sign Up for News Send a Media Inquiry: [email protected] Campus Life SDSU Bookstore SDSU Bookstore (619) 594-7525 [email protected] Library Library and Information Access [email protected] 24/7 Desk: (619) 594-3446 Research Desk: (619) 594-6728 Circulation Desk: (619) 594-6793 Computing Hub Desk: (619) 594-3189 Associated Students Associated Students (619) 594-6555 Jobs at SDSU Become SDSU - Business and Financial Affairs Center for Human Resources (619) 594-6404 [email protected] Additional Contact Information Questions about a specific college or program? Contact the college directly for more information on programs, requirements, courses and student resources. College of Arts and Letters Fowler College of Business College of Education College of Engineering College of Health and Human Services College of Professional Studies and Fine Arts College of Sciences Need help with registration? Review the registration resources from the Office of the Registrar. Interested in touring the campus? Schedule a campus tour through our Office of Admissions. Unable to come to campus? Take a virtual tour. If you have any further questions, contact the Office of Admissions. Looking for employment on campus? See Job Opportunities, or contact the Center for Human Resources by calling (619) 594-6404 or emailing [email protected] for more information. Looking for college recruitment information and materials? Sign up on our Request Information page and we will stay in touch with you. We look forward to hearing from you! Are you a counselor looking for additional information? Please visit the Counselor page on the Admissions website and complete the Counselor Interest Form to receive email communication from us. Want to purchase Athletics tickets? Contact the SDSU Ticket Office via their website. Want to attend an arts event? Learn more by visiting the Arts Alive events calendar. Campus Support Services SDSU offers a range of services designed to support students and employees when they are experiencing a difficult situation, or during a campus emergency. Student Support Student Success Help Desk The Student Success Help Desk serves as a “first stop” for students and others who are unsure of where to go for help, or who may need referrals to campus offices. Email [email protected] with questions or to seek assistance. Emergency Financial, Food Assistance Students having difficulty meeting their basic needs or experiencing an economic crisis should contact the Economic Crisis Response Team (ECRT) by submitting a Request for Assistance on the ECRT website. ECRT Coordinators can support students through their crisis, connecting them with on- and off-campus resources. Associated Students, which may be reached at 619-594-6555, operates a Food Pantry and sponsors other food insecurity initiatives for SDSU students. More information is available on the Associated Students Food Insecurity website. Counseling and Psychological Services Counseling & Psychological Services offers a range of therapeutic services to support students. Call 619-594-5220 to schedule a consultation with a therapist and visit the Counseling & Psychological Services website for additional information and interactive activities to enhance coping and improve well-being. The office is open 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. Outside these hours, students can speak with a counselor on a dedicated access line by calling 619-594-5220. Well-being & Health Promotion Students can reach out to Well-being & Health Promotion (W&HP) to access health education, presentations and trainings on a variety of health topics and issues, and credible health and wellness resources in the local community and online. W&HP also provides access to enrollment support to assist students in obtaining health insurance and CalFresh and support navigating complex health care systems. Students can also participate in a variety of peer health education programs supported through the department. To learn more and request resources, students can visit Well-being & Health Promotion online, reach out by calling 619-594-4133, emailing [email protected], visiting the Calpulli Center, Suite 3201, or follow the department on social media @sdsuwellbeinghealthpromotion. Accomodations Accommodations are available for students with documented disabilities through the Student Ability Success Center. Students can apply for accommodations and services by submitting an application and eligible documentation. SASC is located in the Calpulli Center and is open 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. General inquiries may be sent to [email protected] or can be taken by phone (619) 594-6473. Other Resources SDSU Dean of Students Randy Timm is available to address individual student concerns. His office may be contacted by calling 619-594-5211 or emailing [email protected]. The Campus Assistance, Response, Engagement and Support (CARES) team strives to provide preventive, proactive, and early intervention services to identified students through the building of a responsive campus community, the assessment of student needs, active coordination of resources, and formalized follow-up care. Chris Turntine, director of the CARES program and part of the Dean of Students’ team, can be reached by emailing [email protected] International students who are attending SDSU on a student visa and have questions or concerns are encouraged to contact the International Student Center using any of their online services, or by calling 619-594-1982. There, students can receive additional support and guidance. The Office of the Student Ombudsman provides information, advice, referrals and intervention to students at SDSU, helping to resolve concerns or issues that may arise within the university. All members of our San Diego community can rely on the San Diego Access and Crisis Line by calling 888-724-7240 if in crisis. Trained and experienced counselors are available at all hours seven days a week to provide support, referrals and crisis intervention. Faculty and Staff Support Human Resources The Office of Employee Relations and Compliance advises and guides the campus community on policy and practice related to employee relations and compliance issues and ensures that an equal and diverse campus community is available to all qualified individuals on a nondiscriminatory and non-harassment basis. Staff can contact the Center for Human Resources by calling 619-594-6404 for support. SDSU Research Foundation employees can email [email protected] with support needs. Aztec Shops employees should inform their supervisors and contact Human Resources at 619-594-7501 or 619-594-7602, or by emailing [email protected]. Employee Assistance Program The Employee Assistance Program offers SDSU faculty and staff confidential support for a variety of concerns, including emotional, relationship, health, legal and workplace issues. Information, resources and tools are available by calling 1-800-367-7474 and visiting the EAP website. Office of Advancement Faculty can contact the Office of Faculty Advancement by emailing [email protected] or by calling 619-594-6111. The Office of Faculty Advancement supports career-long faculty academic personnel processes that include academic recruitment, evaluation, J-1 and H-1B Visa Immigration, leaves of absence and retirement/resignation. Complete information is available on the Faculty Advancement website: https://fa.sdsu.edu/. Center for Teaching and Learning For faculty support related to teaching, the Center for Teaching and Learning offers many resources and related materials on its website: https://ctl.sdsu.edu/. Faculty can also contact the CTL by email: [email protected]. As faculty adjust to the return to in-person teaching, the CTL offers opportunities for both one-on-one consultation and classroom observation. To request such forms of support, please see https://ctl.sdsu.edu/faculty_consultations. Learning Environments, Technologies, and User Services (LETUS) The Instructional Technology Services (ITS) support team is standing by to assist with a variety of academic technology needs, including designing and delivering instruction via Canvas, leveraging the technology available within the SDSU Connected Classrooms, and all of the associated software and services. This support is available to faculty within the Faculty Instructional Technology (FIT) Center in Adams Humanities 1109 and virtually via Zoom, as outlined on the ITS support webpage. The User Services (ITUS) support team is ready to help with various applications, including SDSUid, Email, Google Workspace, O365, Networking, Duo, ServiceNow, and WiFi (eduroam). Support is available via telephone at 619.594.5261, Zoom in the Virtual FIT Center, or ServiceNow. ITUS also provides desktop support to a number of areas on campus. To confirm your area’s desktop support and other college and divisional IT help, please visit https://it.sdsu.edu/help. 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182 Phone: 619-594-5200 A-Z Index Campus Directory Maps Parking Employment Media Relations Give to SDSU WebPortal General Contact Network Status Strategic Plan Newsletter Sign Up Copyright © 2022 San Diego State University Requires SDSUid indicates links which require an SDSUid. Accessibility SDSU Digital Privacy Statement Feedback Document Readers facebooktwitteryoutubeinstagramplus Last Updated 4/19/22