Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Student Financial Services Menu About Leadership Contact Us Search the Site Events News Billing & Payment View & Pay Bill Student Login Authorized User Login Payment Due Dates Financial Aid Refunds Authorize Access to Bill Understanding Financial Settlement Undergraduate, Graduate, and Seminary Law New Student Orientation Guide - Undergraduate New Student Orientation Guide - Graduate Online Programs Trimester Programs Quarter Programs Online MBA Master of Laws (LL.M.) Payment Plans Refunds Add/Drop Refunds Cancellation/Withdrawal Refunds Direct Deposit Title IV Credit Authorizations International Payments E-Bill System Security Financial Aid & Your Bill FAQs Resources Forms E-Bill System BearWeb Student Financial Literacy Dining Services Housing Parking Services ID Cards Center for Global Engagement Student Success Center Education Tax Benefits Form 1098-T Private College 529 Plan Loan Collections Student Loan Repayment 101 Seminar Faculty & Staff Emergency Relief Funds (CARES Act, HEERF II, ARP/HEERF III) Student Financial Services Appointments Wintermester HEOA Student Consumer Information Student Conduct Code Financial Aid Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Graduate Online MBA MBA, CSD, MSW Law Seminary Summer Guaranteed Tuition Option Tuition Refund Insurance 2022-2023 Tuition Cost Online Programs Meal Plans Housing Optional Fees Affordability Planner Net Price Calculator Student Financial Aid Applying for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance (COA) Types of Financial Aid Online Graduate Student Aid Scholarships Grants Work-Study Affordability Planner Maintaining Eligibility Drug Convictions and Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Award Guide Over Awards Financial Aid Timeline Graduate Student Financial Aid Timeline Helpful Links Financial Aid Videos - Get Answers 24/7 Videos - Baylor Financial Aid Return of Federal Funds Types of Financial Aid - Quick Chart Financial Aid Requirements FAQs Scholarships & Loans Scholarships Loans Baylor>Student Financial Services>Scholarships & Loans Loans Educational loans are low interest loans that must be repaid. Loans are available through the federal government (the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program) in which eligible students borrow directly from the U.S. Department of Education. Educational loans are also available from state and private lenders, and are known as alternative loans. We encourage you compare the available loan options before choosing a lender and borrow only what you need. Your student loan payments should be only a small percentage of your salary after you graduate. Quick Links link Direct Loans link PLUS Loans link PLUS Loan Calculator link Grad PLUS Loans link Alternative Loans link Other Loans Video not supported. Video not supported. Additional Videos link Direct Loans Direct Subsidized Loans Direct Subsidized Loans are for undergraduate students with financial need. Baylor will review the results of your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and determine the maximum amount you can borrow. You are not charged interest while you’re in school at least half-time and during deferment periods. You will be charged interest during the six-month grace period for subsidized loans for which the first disbursement is made on or after July 1, 2012, and before July 1, 2014. For loans disbursed prior to this timeframe and after this timeframe, interest will not accrue during the grace period. Limitation on Direct Subsidized Loan Usage Federal regulations limit the time frame for borrowing Direct Subsidized Loans to 150% of the published program length for students who borrow their first Direct Loan on or after July 1, 2013. This may have a significant impact on students who change programs or transfer from a two-year institution. Click here for a detailed explanation. Direct Unsubsidized Loans You are not required to demonstrate financial need to receive a Direct Unsubsidized Loan. Like Direct Subsidized Loans, the amount you can borrow will be determined by Baylor. Interest accrues (accumulates) on an unsubsidized loan from the time it’s first disbursed. You can pay the interest while you are in school and during grace periods and deferment or forbearance periods, or you can allow it to accrue and be capitalized (that is, added to the principal amount of your loan). If you choose not to pay the interest as it accrues, this will increase the total amount you have to repay because you will be charged interest on a higher principal amount. Annual and Aggregate Loan Limits The annual loan limit amounts are the maximum yearly amounts you can borrow in both Subsidized and Unsubsidized Direct Loans. You can have one type of loan or a combination of both. Because you can't borrow more than your cost of attendance minus any other financial aid you'll get, you may receive less than the annual maximum amounts. Also, the annual loan limits assume that your program of study is at least a full academic year. Remember, only borrow what you need; you can borrow less than you are offered each year. If you have advanced a grade level by the end of the spring (freshman to sophomore or sophomore to junior), you may be eligible to borrow an additional $1000 for the summer. If you borrow the maximum allowed each year for four years, but then find you need a fifth year of study you will reach the aggregate limit and will be limited in the amount you can borrow during your fifth year. With careful planning allowing you to graduate on time or early, you will not reach the aggregate limit. Click here to view a sample loan disclosure statement. You will receive a statement specific to your loan before your loan is disbursed. Click here to view maximum annual and aggregate (total) loan limits for Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans. Loan Fees and Interest Rates The total origination fee for Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans is 1.057% of the amount borrowed for loans disbursed after October 1, 2020. The origination fee will change effective September 30, 2023. Origination fees for the next academic year are released in June. The interest rate for undergraduates on Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans borrowed on or after July 1, 2022, and before July 1, 2023, is 4.99%. The interest rate for graduate students on Direct Unsubsidized Loans borrowed on or after July 1, 2022 and before July 1, 2023 is 6.54%. New rates will be established each June for the upcoming year. The interest rate for a loan will apply for the life of the loan (fixed-rate). As a result, it is likely you will have a set of fixed-rate loans, each with a different interest rate. See studentaid.gov for new rate information annually. Master Promissory Note(MPN) You must sign a Direct Loan Master Promissory Note. This will be the only promissory note you will have to sign as long as you continue to attend Baylor. Your FSA ID is required in order to eSign. Go to studentaid.gov and log in with your FSA ID to sign the MPN. Right to Decline Loans You have the right to decline any financial aid that you are offered. You have a number of rights and responsibilities pertaining to borrowing student loans. Click here for a list of important rights and responsibilities of which you should be aware. Entrance Counseling Complete Direct Loan entrance counseling is available one time after you have been offered a Direct Subsidized or Unsubsidized Loan and accepted the offer. Go to studentaid.gov and sign in with your FSA ID to complete entrance counseling. Exit Counseling Exit counseling is required when you cease to be enrolled at least half-time. If you drop below half-time hours, withdraw, graduate, or stop attending, you are required to complete exit counseling by logging in with your FSA ID at studentaid.gov. This applies for borrowers under the Federal Perkins Loan Program, William D. Ford Federal Direct Student Loan Program, and under the Federal Stafford Loan Program Repayment When you receive your first Direct Loan, you will be contacted by the servicer for that loan (you repay your loan to the loan servicer). Your loan servicer will provide regular updates on the status of your Direct Loan, and any additional Direct Loans that you receive. If you’re not sure who your loan servicer is, you can look it up on nslds.ed.gov. After you graduate, leave school, or drop below half-time enrollment, you will have a six-month grace period before you begin repayment. The interest subsidy provided during the six-month grace period for subsidized loans for which the first disbursement is made on or after July 1, 2012, and before July 1, 2014, has been eliminated. If you received a subsidized loan during this timeframe, you are responsible for the interest that accrues while your loan is in the grace period. You do not have to make payments during the grace period (unless you choose to) but the interest will be added (capitalized) to the principal amount of your loan when the grace period ends. During this period, you'll receive repayment information from your loan servicer, and you'll be notified of your first payment due date. Payments are usually due monthly. For a sample repayment schedule, click here. link Parent PLUS Loans Direct PLUS Loans are unsubsidized loans for the parents of dependent students. PLUS loans help pay for education expenses up to the cost of attendance minus all other financial assistance. Interest is charged during all periods. PLUS Loan Applicant/Borrower The applicant for PLUS must be the student's biological or adoptive parent or the student's stepparent, if the biological or adoptive parent has remarried at the time of application. You must be a dependent student who is enrolled at least half-time. For financial aid purposes, you are considered "dependent" if you are under 24, unmarried, and have no legal dependents at the time the Free Application for Federal Student Aid is submitted. (Exceptions are made for veterans, wards of court, and other special circumstances.) If you are considered dependent, then the income and the assets of the parent you live with have to be reported on the FAFSA. However, this may not be the same parent who applies for the PLUS loan. PLUS Application Process First, complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). After you have received an award notification and decided that a PLUS loan is the best fit for you, apply through the U.S. Department of Education by completing the following steps: Go to studentaid.gov Your parent will be asked to sign in with his/her FSA ID. (If your parent does not have an FSA ID, he/she should create one at FSA ID). Select "Apply for a Direct Plus Loan." Choose the Parent PLUS loan type. Go through the application process (which includes a credit check) to confirm approval or denial of the loan. Choose a loan period. You should apply for the academic year, not one semester. You will have to repeat the application process (and possibly the credit check) if you apply for the fall only and later wish to apply for another semester. Specify a loan amount. If "maximum amount" is selected, we will process the loan for the maximum amount available (cost of attendance minus all other financial aid received.) We encourage you to review your expenses carefully and apply only for the amount necessary. If approved, first-time borrowers only must continue by choosing Complete Master Promissory Note. Repeat borrowers have completed the process. If denied, your parent will be presented with several options. The Department of Education will send a confirmation or denial to the Baylor Student Financial Aid Office and to you. Amount Available to Borrow The limit on a PLUS Loan is the student's cost of attendance minus any other financial aid received. You apply for the academic year and later apply for summer separately. The total origination fee is currently 4.228% of the amount borrowed. The interest rate on the loan is 7.54% for loans first disbursed after July 1, 2022, and before July 1, 2023. Origination fees and interest rates are reviewed and announced by the Department of Education each year. Go to Loan Disclosure Statement to view a sample. You will receive a statement specific to your loan before your loan is disbursed. Credit Eligibility Federal regulations define credit eligibility for a PLUS Loan as having no "adverse credit." This term normally means that the applicant has no debt repayment account that is 90 days or more delinquent, has not had any debt discharged in bankruptcy in the last 5 years, and has not been in default on any debt (no foreclosure, tax lien, repossession, wage garnishment, or write-off) in the last 5 years. An applicant will be determined to have an adverse credit history if the total combined outstanding balance of the debts, including debts in collection or charged off during the two years preceding the date of the credit report, is greater than $2,085. Timing of Application The credit check for a PLUS loan is valid for 180 days. The studentaid.gov website will accept applications for an upcoming academic year beginning April 15. The credit check for a PLUS loan is valid for 180 days and it is important to submit your application no earlier than 180 days before the upcoming first day of class. Next Steps for Approved Loans All first-time borrowers must complete the master promissory note (MPN) at studentaid.gov. If the Department of Education approves the parent's PLUS, the Department of Education will notify Baylor and will send the loan funds to the school shortly before the semester begins. The funds will first be applied to tuition, fees, room and board, and other school charges. If any loan funds remain, they will be disbursed based on the parent's authorization on the application form. All PLUS Loans require the student be enrolled in at least half-time hours. Next Steps for Denied PLUS Borrowers If your parent is denied the PLUS Loan, then your parent has the option to either: appeal the decision add an endorser, or you can receive a Direct Additional Unsubsidized Loan. Your parent appeals the decision directly to the Department of Education and might qualify for a loan without passing the credit check if he can demonstrate that extenuating circumstances exist. An endorser is a relative or friend who is able to pass the credit check and agrees to endorse the loan. An endorser promises to repay the loan if your parent fails to do so. The maximum amount for an additional unsubsidized loan will vary based on your classification and your financial aid package. Generally freshman and sophomore students will qualify for an additional $4,000. Junior and senior students will typically qualify for an additional $5,000. If your parent later qualifies for a PLUS loan, any undisbursed monies remaining for the Direct Additional Unsubsidized Loan will be canceled, and the PLUS loan will be applied. Like other subsidized and unsubsidized loans, the Direct Additional Unsubsidized Loan is a loan in the student’s name and does not require a cosigner. Right to Decline a Loan You have the right to decline any financial aid that you are offered. You have a number of rights and responsibilities pertaining to borrowing student loans. Click here for a list of important rights and responsibilities of which you should be aware. Entrance Counseling Regular entrance counseling is required for all first-time Grad PLUS (graduate student) borrowers. Go to studentaid.gov and log in with your FSA ID to complete entrance counseling. Credit entrance counseling is required for certain PLUS (parent) borrowers. Parents who are approved for PLUS with an endorser or have an approved appealed credit decision will be required to complete credit entrance counseling. These borrowers will be notified if credit entrance counseling is required. Exit Counseling Exit counseling is required for student borrowers (Grad PLUS) but is not required for PLUS (parent) borrowers. Exit counseling is required when you drop below half-time hours, withdraw, graduate, or stop attending. You are required to complete exit counseling by logging in with your FSA ID at studentaid.gov. Repayment There is no grace period for a Direct PLUS Loan; the repayment period begins 60 days after Baylor makes the last disbursement of the loan. However, if you are a parent PLUS borrower who is also a student, you can defer repayment while you are enrolled in school at least half-time and for an additional 6 months after you graduate or drop below half-time enrollment. If you are a parent PLUS borrower, you can defer repayment of Direct PLUS Loans while the student for whom you obtained the loan is enrolled at least half-time, and for an additional 6 months after the student graduates or drops below half-time enrollment (half-time enrollment status is determined by Baylor). You must separately request each deferment period. Generally, you will have from 10 to 25 years to repay your loan, depending on the repayment plan that you choose. The loan servicer will notify you of the date your first payment is due. If you do not choose a repayment plan, you will be placed on the standard plan, with fixed monthly payments for up to 10 years. You can change repayment plans at any time by contacting your loan servicer. More detailed information about all repayment plans is available at studentaid.gov. link PLUS Loan Calculator Loan amount needed for the year $ Loan origination fee (4.228%) $ Amount to apply for (including the origination fee) $ Federal student loans have loan origination fees that are a percentage of the total loan amount. The loan fee is deducted from each loan disbursement you receive while enrolled in school. This means the money you receive will be less than the amount you actually borrow. You're responsible for repaying the entire amount you borrowed and not just the amount you received. link Graduate PLUS Loans Direct Grad PLUS Loans are unsubsidized loans for graduate/professional students. Grad PLUS loans help pay for education expenses up to the cost of attendance minus all other financial assistance. Interest is charged during all periods. Grad PLUS Application Process First, complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). After you have received an award notification and decided that a Grad PLUS loan is the best fit for you, apply through the U.S. Department of Education by completing the following steps: Go to studentaid.gov You will be asked to sign in with FSA ID. Select "Apply for a Direct Plus Loan". Choose the Grad PLUS loan type. Go through the application process (which includes a credit check) to confirm approval or denial of the loan. Choose a loan period. You should apply for the academic year, not one semester/quarter. You will have to repeat the application process (and possibly the credit check) if you apply for the fall only and later wish to apply for another semester/quarter. Specify a loan amount. If "maximum amount" is selected, we will process the loan for the maximum amount available (cost of attendance minus all other financial aid received.) We encourage you to review your expenses carefully and apply only for the amount necessary. If approved, first-time borrowers only must continue by choosing Complete Master Promissory Note. Repeat borrowers have completed the process. If denied, you will be presented with several options. The Department of Education will send a confirmation or denial to the Baylor Student Financial Aid Office and to you. Amount Available to Borrow The limit on a Grad PLUS Loan is the student's cost of attendance minus any other financial aid received. You apply for the academic year (fall/spring semesters or fall/winter/spring quarters). You apply for summer separately. The total origination fee is currently 4.228% of the amount borrowed. The interest rate on the loan is 7.54% for loans first disbursed after July 1, 2022, and before July 1, 2023. Origination fees and interest rates are reviewed and announced by the Department of Education each year. Go to Loan Disclosure Statement to view a sample. You will receive a statement specific to your loan before your loan is disbursed. Credit Eligibility Federal regulations define credit eligibility for a Grad PLUS Loan as having no "adverse credit." This term normally means that the applicant has no debt repayment account that is 90 days or more delinquent, has not had any debt discharged in bankruptcy in the last 5 years, and has not been in default on any debt (no foreclosure, tax lien, repossession, wage garnishment, or write-off) in the last 5 years. An applicant will be determined to have an adverse credit history if the total combined outstanding balance of the debts, including debts in collection or charged off during the two years preceding the date of the credit report, is greater than $2,085. Timing of Application The credit check for a Grad PLUS loan is valid for 180 days. Disbursement for Fall 2019 is scheduled for 10 days before the start of classes (the earliest date permissible by federal regulation.) You can apply for a PLUS or Grad PLUS loan for the 2020-2021 academic year no earlier than April 15, 2020. The studentaid.gov website will accept applications for the 2020-2021 academic year beginning April 15, 2020. Next Steps for Approved Loans All first-time borrowers must complete the Master Promissory Note (MPN) and Grad PLUS borrowers must also complete entrance counseling at studentaid.gov. If the Department of Education approves your loan, the Department of Education will notify Baylor and will send the loan funds to the school shortly before the semester/quarter begins. The funds will first be applied to tuition, fees, room and board, and other school charges. If any loan funds remain, they will be disbursed based on your authorization on the application form. Grad PLUS Loans require the student be enrolled in at least half-time hours. Next Steps for Denied Grad PLUS Borrowers If you are denied a Grad PLUS, you have the option to either appeal the decision, add an endorser, or pursue a private alternative loan. You appeal the decision directly to the Department of Education and might qualify for a loan without passing the credit check if you can demonstrate that extenuating circumstances exist. And endorser is a relative or friend who is able to pass the credit check and agrees to endorse the loan. An endorser promises to repay the loan if you fail to do so. Right to Decline You have the right to decline any financial aid that you are offered. You have a number of rights and responsibilities pertaining to borrowing student loans. Click here for a list of important rights and responsibilities of which you should be aware. Entrance Counseling Regular entrance counseling is required for all first-time Grad PLUS (graduate student) borrowers. Go to studentaid.gov and log in with your FSA ID to complete entrance counseling. Credit entrance counseling is required for certain PLUS (parent) borrowers. Parents who are approved for PLUS with an endorser or have an approved appealed credit decision will be required to complete credit entrance counseling. These borrowers will be notified if credit entrance counseling is required. Exit Counseling Exit counseling is required for student borrowers (Grad PLUS) but is not required for PLUS (parent) borrowers. Exit counseling is required when you drop below half-time hours, withdraw, graduate, or stop attending. You are required to complete exit counseling by logging in with your FSA ID at studentaid.gov. Repayment There is no grace period for a Direct Grad PLUS Loan. You must separately request each deferment period. Generally, you will have from 10 to 25 years to repay your loan, depending on the repayment plan that you choose. The loan servicer will notify you of the date your first payment is due. If you do not choose a repayment plan, you will be placed on the standard plan, with fixed monthly payments for up to 10 years. You can change repayment plans at any time by contacting your loan servicer. More detailed information about all repayment plans is available at studentaid.gov. link Alternative Loans Alternative loans should be considered once you have explored the options available through the Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized and/or PLUS loan programs. Some families turn to alternative loans when the federal loans don't provide funding or when they need more flexible repayment options. (For example, a parent might be willing to co-sign a note for the student but may want the student to bear primary responsibility for repaying the loan.) Alternative loans will NOT be added to the student's package if verification has not been completed, unless the student acknowledges that they understand that adding alternative loans in advance may impact their need-based aid.  Applying for, certifying, and processing private alternative loans takes time. Please allow 4-6 weeks for this entire process. Federal versus Private Loans Advantages of a Co-signer Eligibility for alternative loans often depends on the student's credit score; therefore, a co-signer is most often required. Even if a co-signer is not required, the student can usually receive a more favorable rate with a co-signer. Alternative loans generally cost more than the education loans offered by the federal government but are less expensive than credit card debt. Fixed versus Variable Some lenders offer a fixed rate product, while others offer a variable rate product. Some lenders offer both types. A fixed interest rate will not fluctuate over time. A variable interest rate moves (up or down) based on changes of an underlying index. Some variable rate loans have an interest cap which cannot be exceeded. Determining How Much to Borrow Use your award letter, your BearWeb account, or contact One Stop Student Services to determine your maximum alternative loan eligibility. You should only request loan funds to cover your specific educational needs rather than the maximum allowed for the enrollment period. We recommend you borrow for the full academic year, not one semester at a time. Interest does not begin accruing on each portion of the loan until that portion is disbursed. Calculate how much you need to borrow for the semester and double that amount to cover both the fall and spring semesters. If you need help preparing a personalized budget, you may make an individual appointment by emailing Financial_Foundations@baylor.edu. When submitting a loan application with a lender, please be sure to enter your desired loan amount. Loan Periods Please use the following dates as a guide to help select the loan period you will request on a loan application with a lender. Please keep in mind that the loan periods listed here are based on traditional semester or law student programs. Online programs in trimester, quarter, or borrower based academic years may have differently defined periods of enrollment that may create a different loan period. Keep in mind the start and end dates of the terms you are needing your loan to cover when requesting the loan period on your loan application. You will want your loan period dates to match the start and end dates of the term you are needing funding for. 2021-2022 Academic Year Undergraduates and Graduate Students Fall/Spring 08/21 - 05/22 Fall 08/21 - 12/21 Spring 01/22 - 05/22 Summer 05/22 - 08/22 Law Students Fall/Winter/Spring 08/21 - 04/22 Fall 08/21 - 11/21 Winter 11/21 - 01/22 Spring 02/22 - 04/22 Summer 05/22 - 08/22 2022-2023 Academic Year Undergraduates and Graduate Students Fall/Spring 08/22 - 05/23 Fall 08/22 - 12/22 Spring 01/23- 05/23 Summer 05/23 - 08/23 Law Students Fall/Winter/Spring 08/22 - 04/23 Fall 08/22 - 11/22 Winter 11/22 - 01/23 Spring 02/23 - 04/23 Summer 05/23 - 08/23 General Loan Periods Undergraduate and Graduate Students Fall/Spring - August to May Fall - August to December Spring - January to May Summer - May to August Law Students Fall/Winter/Spring - August to April Fall - August to November Winter - November to January Spring - February to April Summer - May to August Choosing a Lender Some important factors for you to consider in choosing a lender include cost (interest rates and potential origination fees), flexibility (re-payment options), and customer service. Common customer service considerations include the availability of a fixed rate loan product, account information online, deferment options, and co-signer release options. Preferred Lender List Baylor utilizes ELMSelect, a neutral lender and product comparison tool, to present the lenders on our preferred lender list to you. Access our lender list by visiting: ELMSelect IMPORTANT: You are NOT restricted to the lenders presented on our preferred lender list. You should not be directed to any specific lender by the University; you may choose any lender and follow their application process. We provide this list as a resource for you to research and make the best selection for your educational funding needs. This list is not exhaustive and other options are available. You do not need to borrow from a lender on this list. Placement on the lender list is the result of our annual evaluation of the lender's borrower benefits offered, timely processing, flexibility, historical certification levels at Baylor University, and customer service to you and our staff. To ensure lenders on this list are selected based on the best interests of the borrowers we specifically review: Payment of origination or other fees on behalf of the borrower. Highly competitive interest rates, or other terms, conditions, and/or provisions. High quality loan servicing. Additional benefits beyond typical standard terms, conditions, and/or provisions in loan borrowing. We exercise a duty of care and loyalty to our students when compiling the preferred lender list without prejudice and for the sole benefit of students and families at Baylor University. We will not deny, impede the borrower’s choice of lender, or cause unnecessary delay in loan certification for those who choose a lender that is not included on the preferred lender list. When viewing Lenders on ELMSelect, PLEASE BE SURE TO: Click on the VIEW button to see more information about the lender and loan options. View the DETAILS to see the Lender & Servicer information to understand any vendor affiliation to other lenders on the list. Private Education Loan Self-Certification Instructions: Obtain the Private Education Loan Applicant Self-Certification form from your lender or print it and complete Sections 2, 3 and 4. Return the completed form to your lender; do not submit it to the Financial Aid Office. link Other Loans In addition to the William D. Ford Direct Loan Program and private lender alternative education loans, a few other loan programs are available. Please keep in mind that funding allocations are often limited. Nursing Loan The Nursing Loan is a federal loan program for students pursuing a degree in nursing. Consideration is based on completion of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid and admission to the Nursing School. It is a low-interest loan for undergraduate and graduate students with exceptional financial need. Loans of up to $5200 are made with government funds through Baylor's financial aid office, and Baylor acts as the lender. The interest rate is 5 percent. You are not responsible for paying the interest on the loan during in-school, grace, and deferment periods. The aggregate limit is $17,000. Students must be enrolled in the Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN), Accelerated Bachelor of Nursing (ABSN), or Graduate Nursing programs.  Students must also be enrolled at least half-time, demonstrate financial need, and be a citizen or national of the United States of America. Loan offers are extended to qualified students as funding is available. Any loan offer will be visible and communicated through BearWeb.  Learn more about the required Nursing Loan documentation for offered students. College Access Loan (for Texas residents only) The College Access Loan (CAL) program provides an alternative type of educational loan to Texas students that attend colleges and universities in Texas. Baylor receives an allocation of funding from the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board each year. You are not required to demonstrate financial need by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to receive this loan. The loan may be used to cover all, or part, of your Expected Family Contribution (EFC). However, to determine the amount of CAL you can receive, you must deduct the maximum Pell Grant and Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loan eligibility (even if you do not wish to pursue a Direct Loan) from your Cost of Attendance (COA) at Baylor. Requested loan amounts will NOT be reduced until loan disclosures are complete. For more information and to apply, click here.  Baylor Institutional Loan This student loan program is made possible to undergraduate students by funding through Baylor University. Very limited funding is available. This is a loan of last resort and is not appropriate for most students. Approval is determined by the Student Financial Aid Office and all decisions are final. Students must be enrolled at least half-time at Baylor University for the loan to remain in a deferment status. If the borrower transfers or begins another program of study at any other institution, no deferment is available. There are no loan cancellation benefits. The maximum repayment period is seven years. Other Loan Sources Occasionally private foundations and organizations make loans to students who live in a specific geographic location or who meet other unique criteria. Your high school counselor is a good resource for information regarding these types of loans. Terms & Conditions Loan amounts vary based on the student's classification. Interest rates change annually. See studentaid.gov for new rate information.  Satisfactory Academic Progress standards for all state and federal programs can be found at baylor.edu/sfs/SAP.  Most loans are available up to Cost of Attendance (COA), less all other aid.  Code of Conduct for Education Loans To comply with the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 (HEOA), Baylor has adopted the federally mandated Code of Conduct for Education Loans to address specific legislative concerns relating to educational loan programs. Private Education Loan Disclosure Forms & Samples Please understand that creditors that extend private education loans will provide disclosures at the point of application and loan approval and confirmation. Loan disclosures will contain important information from Section 128(e) of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1638(e)) about loan terms, features, and must disclose information about federal student loan programs that may offer less costly alternatives. The links below provide samples of the required disclosures and forms. Private education loan application and solicitation model form H-18 (286 KB PDF)  https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/pressreleases/files/bcreg20090311a2.pdf Private education loan approval model form H-19 (290 KB PDF)  https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/pressreleases/files/bcreg20090311a3.pdf Private education loan final model form H-20 (281 KB PDF)  https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/pressreleases/files/bcreg20090311a4.pdf Private education loan application and solicitation sample H-21 (294 KB PDF)  https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/pressreleases/files/bcreg20090311a5.pdf Private education loan approval sample H-22 (296 KB PDF)  https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/pressreleases/files/bcreg20090311a6.pdf Private education loan final sample - H-23 (299 KB PDF)  https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/pressreleases/files/bcreg20090311a7.pdf Private Education Loan Applicant Self-Certification HEOA Disclosure Requirements Relating to Education Loans (L-1) State Grant Assistance (L-2) Student Loan Information Published by Dept of Education (L-3) National Student Loan Data System (L-4) Entrance Counseling for Student Borrowers (L-5) Exit Counseling for Student Borrowers (L-6) Private Education Loan Disclosures (Including Self-Certification Form) (L-7) Code of Conduct for Education Loans (L-8) Preferred Lender Lists (L-9) Preferred Lender Arrangements Quick Links linkDirect Loans linkPLUS Loans link PLUS Loan Calculator linkGrad PLUS Loans linkAlternative Loans linkPreferred Lender List linkOther Loans Scholarships & Loans Scholarships Loans VERIFICATION PAY YOUR BILL CONTACT US LOCATION Limited Access to Clifton Robinson Tower Financial Aid, Student Accounts and One Stop (first floor) are open to walk-in visitors, however we encourage students to reach us via phone, contact us form or virtual office visit while a construction project occurs at the Clifton Robinson Tower. Parking is very limited. More information about how to contact us can be found here. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Student Financial Services Student Financial Accounts One Bear Place #97048 Waco, TX 76798-7048 Student Financial Aid One Bear Place #97028 Waco, TX 76798-7028 Student Financial Accounts: 254.710.2311 Financial Aid: 254.710.2611 Contact Us GDPR Privacy Notice Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Leadership Contact Us Search the Site Events News Billing & Payment View & Pay Bill Student Login Authorized User Login Payment Due Dates Financial Aid Refunds Authorize Access to Bill Understanding Financial Settlement Undergraduate, Graduate, and Seminary Law New Student Orientation Guide - Undergraduate New Student Orientation Guide - Graduate Online Programs Trimester Programs Quarter Programs Online MBA Master of Laws (LL.M.) Payment Plans Refunds Add/Drop Refunds Cancellation/Withdrawal Refunds Law & LL.M. Cancellation & Withdrawal Policies Direct Deposit Title IV Credit Authorizations International Payments E-Bill System Security Financial Aid & Your Bill FAQs Resources Forms E-Bill System BearWeb Student Financial Literacy Dining Services Housing Parking Services ID Cards Center for Global Engagement Student Success Center Education Tax Benefits Form 1098-T Private College 529 Plan Loan Collections Student Loan Repayment 101 Seminar Faculty & Staff Emergency Relief Funds (CARES Act, HEERF II, ARP/HEERF III) Student Financial Services Appointments Wintermester HEOA Student Consumer Information Student Conduct Code Financial Aid Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Graduate Online MBA MBA, CSD, MSW Law LL.M. Tuition & Fees Seminary Summer Seminary Summer Guaranteed Tuition Option Tuition Refund Insurance 2022-2023 Tuition Cost Online Programs Meal Plans Housing Optional Fees Affordability Planner Net Price Calculator Student Financial Aid Applying for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance (COA) Types of Financial Aid Online Graduate Student Aid Scholarships Departmental Scholarship Grants Work-Study Affordability Planner Maintaining Eligibility Drug Convictions and Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Award Guide Over Awards Financial Aid Timeline Graduate Student Financial Aid Timeline Helpful Links Financial Aid Videos - Get Answers 24/7 Videos - Baylor Financial Aid Federal Aid, Work-Study, And Alternative Loans Financial Aid Application Process Scholarship Options International Student Aid Return of Federal Funds Types of Financial Aid - Quick Chart Financial Aid Requirements FAQs Scholarships & Loans Scholarships Loans