Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search Called to serve. Empowered to lead. Perkins School of Theology Perkins School of Theology forges dedicated servant leaders for 21st-century ministry. Engaging with a culturally and theologically diverse faculty prepares students in graduate and certificate programs to boldly embrace a global perspective while also following their calling. Practical internships immerse students in real-world ministries, and public programs welcome the wider community for enrichment experiences. Centers engage faculty in interdisciplinary research and education opportunities. Also in Perkins School of Theology SMU Fund for Perkins Scholarships Master of Sacred Music Graduate Programs Endowed scholarships SMU Fund for Perkins Your gift to the SMU Fund for Perkins ignites new opportunities for Perkins School students and faculty. Supporting this fund provides flexible resources allocated at the dean’s discretion for faculty research grants, community outreach, scholarships and new initiatives as the needs arise. Our goal is to raise $300,000 to ensure timely support. Make a Gift Scholarships empower outstanding students Fueling scholarships empowers Perkins to support, attract and retain gifted students called to become ministry leaders in both parish and nonprofit fields. Perkins Scholars Fund for Master of Divinity students A three-year commitment of $7,000 per year empowers our students and enriches their studies, granting you a unique opportunity to walk beside candidates as they pursue their faithful education journeys. Perkins’ program with Meadows School for Master of Sacred Music students Encourage “the best of the best” to pursue this unparalleled program through your two-year commitment of $10,000 per year to the fund. Graduate Program in Religious Studies stipends Through your gifts of $10,000 or more, you will provide promising PhD students with the extra resources they need to pursue study at the highest level – preparing them for research, teaching and ministry opportunities. Endowed scholarships Create a named endowed fund in memory or honor of a person or organization with a gift of $100,000 or more and provide funds in perpetuity for Perkins students in all degree programs. Help us offset the rising cost of higher education by providing a dependable source of income, minimizing the need for tuition increases. Make an impact Caren and Vin Prothro organ for Perkins Chapel Enriching Perkins School’s musical outreach and programming, a classic E.M. Skinner organ, unique to Dallas, has been gifted to SMU’s Perkins Chapel. The organ will bring new spirit and empower life-changing ministry by bringing people together through music. With $1.2 million already pledged toward the organ’s restoration, your gift can help fund the remaining $800,000 needed for its completion. Perkins centers of engagement Your participation is essential to the growth of Perkins centers of engagement. Your gift expands and deepens Perkins’ impact in the Dallas community and beyond. Key centers target specific areas. As the premier private university in North Texas, SMU exists to shape future leaders who transform communities and organizations through ingenuity and thoughtful problem-solving. Building on our history of excellence, we now embark on SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow – our multiyear, $1.5 billion campaign to attract and support outstanding students and faculty, to explore new fields and cutting-edge technologies, and to positively impact Dallas and the world beyond. We invite you to join us and empower the bold, the curious and the creative to better their professions and their communities. SHAPE A BRIGHTER TOMORROW John A. Martin Director of Development Perkins School of Theology johnma@smu.edu or 214-768-2026 Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search