Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Climate School Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home The School Education Research News Events People Giving Shop Leadership Careers COVID-19 Resources Privacy Policy Explore All Programs MA Climate + Society Non-Degree Programs Educator Training Pre-College Programs Professional Learning Undergraduate Research Experiences Office of Research Pre-Award Unit Research Partners Research Projects Columbia Climate School You are here: Home News News Latest News from State of the Planet Biennial Index Finds the World Is Lagging on Environmental and Climate Goals June 1, 2022 A handful of countries, including the United States, may emit half the world’s greenhouse gases by 2050. Columbia University at Davos 2022 June 1, 2022 At this year’s World Economic Forum meeting in Davos, Switzerland, Columbia experts provided analysis and actionable ideas on how to address the climate and energy crises. Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 31, 2022 A graduate of Columbia’s Environmental Science and Policy program, Barone works as an economics and policy analyst for Environmental Defense Fund. More News More Media Stories For the Media Press Releases Top stories from State of the Planet. Biennial Index Finds the World Is Lagging on Environmental and Climate Goals June 1, 2022 A handful of countries, including the United States, may emit half the world’s greenhouse gases by 2050. Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 25, 2022 In a collaboration that included Columbia researchers, Belmont County residents set up a low-cost sensor network that is helping them fight for clean air. Study Establishes Key Areas for Tiger Movement in Central India May 23, 2022 By mapping out overlapping areas identified as tiger corridors in previous studies, researchers hope to send a clear and cohesive message on which areas are most important for conservation. More Press Releases Media Advisories Upcoming events, research expeditions, and other items of interest. Upcoming Scientific Fieldwork, 2022 and Beyond May 11, 2022 Thumbnail descriptions of field projects on land, at sea and in the air, on every continent and every ocean. New Film Explores Combining Indigenous Knowledge and Western Science to Understand Waning Arctic Sea Ice January 21, 2022 A launch event will include clips from the film; discussion by Iñupiaq elders, scientists and the filmmaker; and audience Q&A. American Geophysical Union 2021: Key Events From the Columbia Climate School December 7, 2021 A guide to some of the most provocative talks at the world’s largest gathering of earth and space scientists. More Media Advisories Press Resources Guides and information to help the media connect with our scientists and experts. Upcoming Scientific Fieldwork, 2022 and Beyond Disaster Experts: A Journalist's Guide 100+ Climate Experts: A Journalist's Guide Coronavirus: Expert Resources for Journalists Climate School Experts on the Ukraine Crisis comments icon Communicating Science Tools and resources from the Initiative on Communication & Sustainability for scientists, journalists, educators, students, and citizens to communicate in ways that facilitate progress toward a sustainable future. Media Contacts Kevin Krajick [email protected] Office: 212-854-9729 | Cell: 917-361-7766 Caroline Adelman [email protected] 917-370-1407 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close