COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Special Education - High Incidence, Master's Master'sSpecial Education - High Incidence All Programs College of Applied Studies Intervention Services and Leadership in Education Wichita State’s Master of Education (MEd) in special education combines quality, accredited instruction with opportunities for research and applied learning in Kansas’ largest school district—leading to high-demand careers in a variety of settings. The program offers multiple specializations. Most students work full time, completing their degree in the evening through our fully online format. The program is excellent preparation for doctorate-level study in education. Learn how Special Education - High Incidence is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program The special education degree with an emphasis in high incidence is available for individuals certified at the elementary and/or secondary level (K–9, 7–12, or K–12) or licensed to teach children. Admission requirements include: Admission into the WSU Graduate School Minimum 3.0 GPA for the last 60 credit hours OR 2.75 GPA and GRE scores of at least 152 in Verbal and 153 in Quantitative Current teaching certificate/license (or eligible for a certificate/license) For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Cousin with autism inspires student to write book WSU student Amy Lightfoot has authored a children’s book titled “My Cousin Lili.” The book is the real-life story about Lightfoot and how her cousin Lilian, who has autism spectrum disorder, inspired her to understand and love people with disabilities. Curriculum The high incidence program curriculum comprises 30 credit hours and prepares you to work with students with mild to moderate disabilities. The program combines coursework, practical experience and a capstone project or thesis. Candidates may complete only the first 23 credit hours to receive an endorsement in high incidence education. These candidates are considered non-degree-seeking graduate students. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree from Wichita State’s College of Applied Studies will give you the knowledge, skills and confidence to make a positive impact in the classroom—and on your career. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Special Education - Low Incidence (Master's) Special Education - High Incidence Alternative Certification (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©