Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Menu BC Magazine Nav Search Close About Podcasts Class Notes Past Issues Contact Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close A New World Order? The war in Ukraine. The rise of China. The weakening of democratic norms. We asked BC experts about the future of the liberal world order. On the World after Ukraine // On Russia // On China // On NATO // On Arms Control // On the Middle East A Farewell to Jerry York After twenty-eight years and four national championships at BC, the legendary hockey coach has retired. Inside Boston College Admissions It’s never been more difficult to get into BC. We spoke with John Mahoney ’79, vice provost for enrollment management, about how the selection process works, and what students can do to make their application stand out. Goal Driven BC hockey star Cayla Barnes and Team USA skated off with silver at the Winter Olympics in Beijing. What’s next? A One-Man Cast of Thousands An actor who’s appeared in countless hit movies and TV shows, P.J. Byrne’s star is on the rise. Kids and Disasters As catastrophic events become more frequent, BC's Betty Lai is researching how to promote recovery and resilience in children. Guy Beiner The new Sullivan Chair in Irish Studies on how we remember our past, and why it matters. "Who Am I Outside of Volleyball?" Her father left her an athletic legacy, but Jewel Strawberry found her passion off the court. A Gallery-Worthy Gift Peter Lynch ’65 has donated more than $20 million in art from his private collection to the McMullen Museum of Art at BC. Andrea Yoch '89 The president and co-founder of a new women's minor league soccer team on its origin story. How the Post Office Shaped U.S. Literature BC Professor Christy Pottroff explores snail mail’s contribution to our literary tradition. Nicholas Burns Is the New Ambassador to China The BC alum tweeted that he’s looking forward to doing “vital work for our country.” BC Basketball Gets a New Facility The Hoag Basketball Pavilion will help position the teams for success. Stephen R.P. Edwards '02 The managing director of highways in Jamaica shares how he navigates the role. Making Waves in Cancer Research Swim Across America, a nonprofit founded by a BC alum, is the subject of a documentary series. Odds and Ends A look at the ollection of scientific gizmos maintained by Chemistry Professor Emeritus T. Ross Kelly. What Makes Education Catholic? BC STM Professor Thomas Groome’s new book explores the essence of a Catholic education. A Social History of BC Clough Millennium Professor Emeritus of History James O’Toole discusses his new book about Boston College. Inside the Criminal Mind In her new book, CSON Professor Ann Wolbert Burgess details her trailblazing work with the FBI in investigating serial killers. Thomas D. Stegman, SJ Reflections from the outgoing dean of the Boston College School of Theology and Ministry. Campus Digest: Summer 2022 News and happenings from around Boston College. Fiddler on the Heights BC sophomore Andrew Caden '24 is one of the best young Irish fiddlers in the world. Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College