Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Graduate School Menu About Graduate School Calendar Staff Directory J. Larry Lyon Beth Allison Barr Steve G. Driese Christopher M. Rios Sheila Dooley Sandra B. Harman Anna E. Henderson Tosha A. Hendrickson Eric Hooley Alanna D. Martinez Dana Matthews Alana A. Schaeper Laura Sepanski 2020 Annual Report Admissions COVID-19 Admissions Updates How To Apply Apply Now International: English Proficiency International: Required Documents FAQs Admissions FAQs Admitted Students Additional Information for Admitted International Students Graduate Student Housing Community Moving to Waco Admitted Student FAQs New Graduate Student Orientation 2022 Submitting Test Scores Degrees & Programs Graduate Catalog Baylor Colleges and Schools Benefits & Financial Support Health Insurance Benefits Childbirth & Adoption Short-Term Leave Baylor Funding Opportunities Student Resources Graduate School Deadlines Campus Resources Professional Development All Programs and Workshops On-Campus Research Doctoral Programs On-Campus Master's Programs Online Professional Programs Awards and Funding Opportunities Summer Dissertation Fellowship Doctoral Administrative Fellows Baptist Scholars International Roundtable (BSIR) Baptist College and University Scholars Outstanding Dissertation Award Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Award Outstanding Graduate Research Award BEAR Grants Travel Awards McNair Doctoral Fellowship Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship External Funding Resources Dr. Steven G. Driese Outstanding Grant Proposal Award Completing Your Degree Dissertation & Thesis Resources Requirements for Graduation Completing Your Degree FAQs Faculty & Staff Resources General Resources English for Academic Purposes Program GPS Faculty Development Workshops Graduate Council Graduate Curriculum Committee Graduate Faculty Rights and Membership Proposing a New Graduate Degree Search Grad Faculty Graduate Student Payroll Graduate Program Directors GPD Listing Program Director Statement Resources for Directors Recruitment and Admissions Recruiting Funds Slate Log In Baylor>Graduate School>Admissions>Admitted Students Admitted Students Congratulations on your admission! Here are steps for incoming traditional (on campus) graduate students to help you be settled in and ready for your first day of class. If you are a newly admitted student in an online, Army-Baylor, hybrid, or other off-campus program, follow your program-specific steps for orientation and enrollment. International students, CLICK HERE for additional information. 1. Provide your "Reply to Offer of Admission" under Forms on your GoGrad status page. 2. Read your acceptance letters carefully as they provide important information. You can find them by clicking on View Update under Status Update. 3. Activate your Bear ID and e-mail, and access your Baylor ID number. After providing your Intent to Enroll, you will get an email from ITS@baylor.edu about activating your Bear ID and email. This may take up to 2 full business days. Please contact helpdesk@baylor.edu with any Bear ID issues. Find explanations and instructions at the ITS Welcome to Baylor page, and step-by-step instructions on activating your Bear ID can be found here. It is very important that you use your Baylor email address throughout your studies at Baylor. It is the email address that is used by the Cashier's office and all other administrative offices on campus. Please Note: Logging into BearWeb will now require Duo Authentication. For more information about how to set-up a Duo account, click here. 4. Complete the required health form. This must be completed before registering for classes. Please Note: EMBA, online, and Army-Baylor students are not required to complete the health form. Bacterial Meningitis Vaccine Requirement: Bacterial meningitis can rapidly lead to death or disfigurement. As of January 1, 2012, all new, entering college students in the state of Texas who are under the age of 22 need to have had an MCV4 bacterial meningitis vaccine within the last 5 years in order to attend class. Click here for more information. 5. Contact your Graduate Program Director to get program-specific instructions, especially regarding advising and selecting classes. 6. Register for classes. Before your first semester, please contact your graduate program office directly. You can also find help on the Office of the Registrar's website. Your access to register for classes is set up after official notification of your admittance from the Graduate School to the university Bearweb system. There may be a short time lag. Please click here for Graduate School requirements that could impact your eligibility to graduate. Some departments require graduate students to be advised before they can register for classes online, while others simply recommend that students be advised. For more information regarding your advisement, log on to Bearweb. The Registrar's Office also has a complete list of departments and contacts for both situations along with the Early Registration Schedule on their Registering for Classes website. 7. Send your final, official transcript(s) and test scores to Grad_Transcripts@baylor.edu . If you were admitted before receiving your degree, you are required to send an official, final transcript showing your conferred degree and date awarded to Graduate Admissions by the first day of class or a hold will be placed on your registration for the following semester and you may be asked to leave the program. Please note that many Registrar Offices do not post degrees on transcripts until 2 weeks after graduation. Before ordering your transcript, please check with your institution's registrar's office to confirm when degrees will be posted. If your transcript does not include degree and date conferred, please also include your diploma or degree certificate. If you were admitted with unofficial transcripts and test scores, you are required to send official, final documents to Graduate Admissions by the first day of class or a hold will be placed on your registration for the following semester and you may be asked to leave the program If your transcript does not include degree and date conferred, please also include your diploma or degree certificate. International students in F-1 status must also qualify for an I-20 before they are permitted to register. Email our International Student and Scholar Services for information and assistance. Paper transcripts can be mailed to: Baylor University Graduate Admissions, One Bear Place #97264, Waco TX 76798-7264. Click here for a definition of "official." If we already have your official transcripts showing all conferred degrees, thank you! You can proceed to the next step. 8. If you are receiving a stipend, complete an I-9 and a W-4 form. The Department of Homeland Security holds Baylor accountable for the proper collection of information and completion of these forms. Please go to The Office of Student Employment webpage for more information and copies of the forms. If you are receiving a stipend you are also eligible to use the installment plan for paying university fees at no additional charge (normally a $60 charge). Contact the Cashier's Office now for more information about the installment plan and university fees at baylor.edu/sfs/contactus or by calling (254) 710-2311. You can find monthly and biweekly payroll schedules at www.baylor.edu/payroll/. 9. If you want to pursue financial aid to help with your costs, visit with Student Financial Services for more information regarding financial aid programs and the application process. Pay attention to priority dates that you need to meet. International students are not eligible for U.S. Government (federal) funding. To ensure timely processing of your FAFSA, Baylor needs either your Social Security Number or individual Taxpayer Identification number. If you did not provide this information in your application, please login to BearWeb and click Student Academic Services>>Student Records>>Update Missing SSN (this option will only appear in BearWeb if you did not already provide this information). If you have further questions after reviewing this information please contact the Financial Aid Office by phone at 1-800- BAYLOR-U, option 8, 2, then 3 for a counselor or 254-710-2611 or contact the Student Financial Aid office online. 10. As a graduate student, you receive a free membership in the Graduate Student Association! Click here for more information. 11. Look for housing. There are apartment complexes within walking or bike-riding distance of campus to suit a variety of needs, budgets, and personal preferences. The following links will assist you with housing options: Graduate Student Housing Community Off campus housing A popular website for students seeking apartments and/or roommates is www.bearcribs.com. The earlier you arrange your housing, the more options you will find available. As the fall semester approaches, housing options become more limited since many undergraduate and graduate students are searching for accommodations. 12. Process your insurance. Your first student bill will show an automatic insurance charge. Baylor University requires Health Insurance for graduate students enrolled in 3 or more credit hours, including DPT online graduate students, or those enrolled in at least one hour of a full-time equivalency course. To assist students to meet this requirement, Academic HealthPlans has been selected to administer the Student Health Insurance Plan underwritten by Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas. Students are automatically enrolled and payment will be charged to your Spring 2021 tuition bill unless you obtain a waiver by the February 15, 2021 deadline. Students who have comparable health insurance coverage can waive out of this plan. See Graduate Student Health Insurance. Students may use the Open Enrollment period to add spouses and children to their plan. See Graduate Student Health Insurance. Graduate Students who meet the criteria for Graduate Assistants will receive the Graduate School insurance subsidy. If you qualify for the subsidy, this is stated in your admission letter. The subsidy will be applied to your Baylor student account and will not appear in your AHP registration. For university-wide insurance information please visit the Baylor Health Services Insurance page 13. If needed, purchase a parking permit to park in campus parking lots. 14. If you have accessibility issues, reach out to the Baylor Office of Access and Learning Accommodation. Baylor is committed to assuring equal access in all aspects of the college experience. 15. If you are bringing family with you, here are some helpful Baylor resources: Baylor University Piper Center for Family Studies and Child Development Baylor University job openings enjoy family hours at the McLane Student Life Center, including an indoor pool with lazy river and vortex pool. Mayborn Museum Baylor Music Programs (Musikgarten, OsoMusical, Piano Lab, summer camps) Baylor Speech, Language, and Hearing Clinic 16. Plan to attend New Graduate Student Orientation. Click here for more information. Do you have Additional questions? Here are some of the FAQs from recently admitted students Admissions COVID-19 Admissions Updates How To Apply Apply Now International: English Proficiency International: Required Documents FAQs Admissions FAQs Admitted Students Additional Information for Admitted International Students Graduate Student Housing Community Browning Square The Quadrangle Moving to Waco Admitted Student FAQs New Graduate Student Orientation 2022 Submitting Test Scores Baylor Graduate School Baylor Graduate School Morrison Hall, Suite 200 One Bear Place #97264 Waco, TX 76798-7264 (254) 710-3588 (254) 710-3870 GraduateAdmissions@baylor.edu Live Chat ApplyVisitMake a Gift General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Graduate School Calendar Staff Directory J. Larry Lyon Beth Allison Barr Steve G. Driese Christopher M. Rios Sheila Dooley Sandra B. Harman Anna E. Henderson Tosha A. Hendrickson Eric Hooley Alanna D. Martinez Dana Matthews Alana A. Schaeper Laura Sepanski 2020 Annual Report Admissions COVID-19 Admissions Updates How To Apply Apply Now International: English Proficiency International: Required Documents FAQs Admissions FAQs Admitted Students Additional Information for Admitted International Students Graduate Student Housing Community Moving to Waco Admitted Student FAQs New Graduate Student Orientation 2022 Submitting Test Scores Degrees & Programs Graduate Catalog Baylor Colleges and Schools Benefits & Financial Support Health Insurance Benefits Childbirth & Adoption Short-Term Leave Baylor Funding Opportunities Student Resources Graduate School Deadlines Campus Resources Professional Development All Programs and Workshops On-Campus Research Doctoral Programs On-Campus Master's Programs Online Professional Programs Awards and Funding Opportunities Summer Dissertation Fellowship Doctoral Administrative Fellows Baptist Scholars International Roundtable (BSIR) Baptist College and University Scholars Outstanding Dissertation Award Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Award Outstanding Graduate Research Award BEAR Grants Travel Awards McNair Doctoral Fellowship Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship External Funding Resources Dr. Steven G. Driese Outstanding Grant Proposal Award Completing Your Degree Dissertation & Thesis Resources Requirements for Graduation Completing Your Degree FAQs Faculty & Staff Resources General Resources English for Academic Purposes Program GPS Faculty Development Workshops Graduate Council Graduate Curriculum Committee Graduate Faculty Rights and Membership Proposing a New Graduate Degree Search Grad Faculty Graduate Student Payroll Graduate Program Directors GPD Listing Program Director Statement Resources for Directors Recruitment and Admissions Recruiting Funds Slate Log In