Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Department of Aerospace Studies About Us Forward Arrow About Us Det 770 Cadre Great Clemson Graduates Air Force History "Flyin' Tigers" Mission Awards Privacy Disclaimer Back Arrow Back Prospective Cadets Forward Arrow Prospective Cadets FAQ Back Arrow Back Orientation Alumni Contact Us Forward Arrow Contact Us Contact an Admissions Advisor Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Department of Aerospace Studies Great Clemson Graduates About Us show submenu for About Us Det 770 Cadre Great Clemson Graduates Air Force History "Flyin' Tigers" Mission Awards Privacy Disclaimer Prospective Cadets show submenu for Prospective Cadets FAQ Orientation Alumni Contact Us show submenu for Contact Us Contact an Admissions Advisor Clemson Home Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Departments Department of Aerospace Studies About Us Current: Great Clemson Graduates Great Clemson Graduates Lt. Col. Aquilla James Dyess (1909–1944) Lt. Col. Dyess was born on January 11, 1909, in Andersonville, Georgia. As a young man, he achieved the rank of Eagle Scout in the Boy Scouts. Later in his life in 1928, he demonstrated his courage by rescuing two swimmers from drowning off the coast of Charleston, South Carolina. The following year, he was awarded the Carnegie Medal, the highest civilian medal for heroism for his life-saving act. From 1928 to 1932, he attended Clemson College, which was the name of the University at the time. He commissioned into the U.S. Army reserve in 1931 before graduating in 1932, and in November 1936, he transferred over to the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve as a 1st Lieutenant. During the following years leading up to the United States' entry into World War II, he was a part of the Marine Corps Rifle Team where he received numerous medals for his excellent marksmanship. After the bombing of Pearl Harbor, he was placed as a Lieutenant Colonel in command of the First Battalion, Twenty-Fourth Marines, Fourth Marine Division. On February 2, 1944, in the battle for the Marshall Islands, Lt. Col. Dyess was on the Japanese-held Namur Island. While attacking the final Japanese position on the northern part of the island, Dyess valiantly led his men from an exposed position between the two opposing lines of forces. On that day, whenever the enemy gunfire worsened and slowed the advance of the marines, Dyess would quickly appear and place himself at the head of his men, inspiring them to continue on. While he was directing a group of infantry in a flanking attack, he was killed by a burst of enemy gunfire. He was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for his "conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity" on that day. He is the only American to receive both the Medal of Honor and the Carnegie Medal. Sgt. Evans Foster (1894-1951) Sgt. Foster was born on November 6, 1894, in Spartanburg, South Carolina. During his childhood, he was raised in South Carolina, and he volunteered for the U.S. Army when the United States entered World War I. He fought in the battle for France throughout the year 1918. On October 8, 1918, near the town of Montbrehain, he fought with such valor in the face of the enemy barrage that he was later awarded the Medal of Honor. The citation reads as follows, "When his company was held up by violent machine-gun fire from a sunken road, Sgt. Foster with an officer went forward to attack the hostile machine-gun nests. The officer was wounded, but Sgt. Foster continued on alone in the face of the heavy fire, and by effective use of hand grenades and his pistol, killed several of the enemies and captured 18." Sgt. Foster attended Clemson College after returning home from the war. Major Rudolf Anderson Jr. (1927-1962) Major Anderson was born in Greenville, South Carolina on September 15, 1927. In his youth, he achieved the Eagle Scout rank for Boy Scout Troop 19. He attended Clemson College in the mid-1940s, graduating in 1948 and earning a commission in the newly created Air Force. After the break out of the Korean War, he was sent to fly the F-86 Sabre over the skies of North Korea. He logged more than 2,000 flying hours in the Sabre. For his actions during the war, he was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross with two clusters. He stayed in the Air Force for the next 10 years and had three children with his loving wife, Frances Corbett. In October 1962, the Cuban Missile Crisis was engulfing the country and most of the world. Major Anderson was flying the U-2 reconnaissance spy plane which operates at 70,000 ft. On October 27, while on a mission over Cuba, his plane was shot down by a Soviet surface-to-air missile. He was posthumously awarded both the Distinguished Service Medal and the Air Force Cross. The following is an excerpt from the citation given for the Air Force Cross, "During this period of great national crisis, Major Anderson, flying an unescorted, unarmed aircraft, lost his life while participating in one of several aerial reconnaissance missions over Cuba. While executing these aerial missions, Major Anderson made photographs that provided the United States government with conclusive evidence of the introduction of long-range offensive missiles into Cuba and which materially assisted our leaders in charting the nation's military and diplomatic course. Through his extraordinary heroism, superb airmanship, and aggressiveness in the face of the enemy, Major Anderson reflected the highest credit upon himself and the United States." Air Force ROTC Detachment 770 Copyright © Clemson University Air Force ROTC Detachment 770 | 300 Tillman Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 864-656-3254 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson