Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Cancer Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Brain Cancer Breast Cancer Cervical Cancer Colon Cancer Immunotherapy Prostate Cancer Radiation Skin Cancer Top Stories Lung Cancer Screening Program Launches at Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian The program brings together physicians and nurse practitioners from multiple disciplines to provide care for smokers and ex-smokers who are at high risk for lung cancer and other complications. Topic Campus News Let’s Talk About Sex… and Cancer Sexual dysfunction is common among female cancer patients but infrequently addressed. Columbia oncologist Christine Chin is working to change that. Wendy Chung on Genetics and Cancer Columbia geneticist Wendy Chung reflects on the progress made in cancer genetics and discusses the next frontier of using genetic information to design personalized cancer prevention strategies. Clinical Trial Finds Combination Therapy Has Promise for Gastric Adenocarcinoma Columbia cancer researchers estimate that 60% of patients in a phase 2 clinical trial will have no sign of their cancer two years after treatment with combination therapy. Latest News State of Stomach Cancer Research and Care November 22, 2021 Two new Columbia specialists in stomach cancer treatment and research explain what you should know about one of the world's most common cancers. Tackling Disparities in Stomach Cancer: Columbia Study May Lead to First Screening Guidelines November 16, 2021 A Columbia study may lead to stomach cancer screening guidelines, especially for Black and Hispanic Americans who have a greater risk of developing or dying from stomach cancer than white Americans. Pancreatic Cancer: More Patients May Benefit From Surgery November 12, 2021 Recent observations suggest that surgery is possible for some pancreatic cancer patients who are initially deemed inoperable. Topic Surgery As Breast Cancer Awareness Month Ends, These Facts Are Worth Remembering October 29, 2021 Here’s what Columbia doctors want you to remember when the pink ribbons disappear as breast cancer awareness month ends. Topic Breast Cancer What to Know About Breast Cancer Screening: Q+A with Dr. Elise Desperito October 19, 2021 Columbia University's chief of breast imaging, Elise Desperito, MD, clarifies conflicting advice on mammography and urges all women to be evaluated for their breast cancer risk. Topic Breast Cancer After Breast Cancer Twice in One Year, Early Detection and New Radiation Therapy Made All the Difference October 15, 2021 Columbia breast cancer patient Karin Diamond credits regular mammograms for catching her cancer early and her surgeon's use of intraoperative radiation for keeping her cancer-free. Topic Breast Cancer Breast Cancer: Where We Are and What’s to Come October 8, 2021 Overall survival for breast cancer has improved by about 40% since the 1980s. Precision medicine and new screening tests may lead to even better outcomes in the future. Topic Breast Cancer Fifth Annual Velocity Ride Raises $1.1 Million October 4, 2021 The 2021 edition of Velocity raised $1.1 million to support cancer research and care at Columbia University's Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. Topic Campus News Chemotherapy Before Surgery Improves Outcomes in Advanced Ovarian Cancer September 30, 2021 Despite clinical guidelines that advocate surgery as a first step, a Columbia study suggests many patients with advanced ovarian cancer should be treated with chemotherapy before surgery. Topic Obstetrics-Gynecology Sheneque’s Story: Diagnosed with Cervical Cancer as a Teen, Now a Cancer Thriver September 29, 2021 Just 17 when diagnosed with advanced cervical cancer, Sheneque Hanse is now in remission after two years of treatment and eager to start a career in health care to help others with cancer. Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top