Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports UW News Menu About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports Home UW News COVID-19 May 6, 2022 Model finds COVID-19 deaths among elderly may be due to genetic limit on cell division Your immune system’s ability to combat COVID-19, like any infection, largely depends on its ability to replicate the immune cells effective at destroying the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes the disease. These cloned immune cells cannot be infinitely created, and a key hypothesis of a new University of Washington study is that the body’s ability to… Read more March 30, 2022 Video: New face mask guidance for UW’s 2022 spring quarter With the start of spring quarter on March 28, face masks became optional — but still recommended — inside most UW facilities. In light of the policy change, UW News spoke with several experts about what to expect on campus, how the current science and transmission rates inform our policy, and emotions and feelings we may experience as a result of removing our face coverings. Read more February 3, 2022 Custodians share COVID experiences, show pride in their work in art exhibit The UW Custodian Project is advocating for custodians, lifting their voices and raising awareness about their important roles on campus. As part of the project, an art exhibit called “(in)Visibility” is hanging in UW Tower through March. It features photos taken by 16 custodians, paired with their testimonials. Read more January 24, 2022 Fast, cheap test can detect COVID-19 virus’ genome without need for PCR Researchers at the University of Washington have developed a new test for COVID-19 that combines the speed of over-the-counter antigen tests with the accuracy of PCR tests that are processed in medical labs and hospitals. The Harmony COVID-19 test is a diagnostic test that, like PCR tests for COVID-19, detects genetic material from the SARS-CoV-2 virus. But whereas conventional PCR tests can take several hours, the Harmony kit can provide results in less than 20 minutes for some samples and with similar accuracy. Read more October 20, 2021 UW students designed a rover to inspect culvert conditions to help fish UW students created a rover that can inspect sewer pipes or culverts for any damage that could prevent fish from using them during migration. Read more October 1, 2021 Politics, health data held almost equal sway in states’ COVID-19 restrictions New research by the University of Washington shows that states eased pandemic restrictions, such as gathering limits and business closures, based on politics as much as COVID-19 death rates or case counts. Read more August 19, 2021 Youth mental health during the pandemic better with more sleep, structure and time in nature A study led by Harvard and the University of Washington surveyed children, teens and their families about the stresses of the pandemic, and ways to cope. Read more July 26, 2021 Scientists model ‘true prevalence’ of COVID-19 throughout pandemic Two University of Washington scientists have developed a statistical framework that incorporates key COVID-19 data — such as case counts and deaths due to COVID-19 — to model the true prevalence of this disease in the United States and individual states. Their approach, published the week of July 26 in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, projects that in the U.S. as many as 60% of COVID-19 cases went undetected as of March 7, 2021, the last date for which the dataset they employed is available. Read more July 13, 2021 From ‘distress’ to ‘unscathed’ — mental health of UW students during spring 2020 To understand how the UW’s transition to online-only classes affected college students’ mental health in the spring of 2020, UW researchers surveyed 147 UW undergraduates over the 2020 spring quarter. Read more June 16, 2021 Pandemic-era crowdfunding more common, successful in affluent communities A new University of Washington study of requests and donations to the popular crowdfunding site GoFundMe, along with Census data, shows stark inequities in where the money went and how much was donated. Read more June 3, 2021 UW announces COVID-19 vaccine requirement for all employees The University of Washington on Thursday announced it will require all employees to be vaccinated against COVID-19 by autumn quarter. The UW recently announced that all students must also be vaccinated before fall classes begin. Read more May 7, 2021 Clinical trials brought us COVID vaccines, but we’re in largescale population ‘trials’ now and will learn more Scientists can learn a lot in a controlled clinical trial involving tens of thousands of people, such as the COVID-19 vaccine trials that led to their approval, but we will all learn a lot more as hundreds of millions of people are vaccinated. And, some of what might turn up in this population-based data are… Read more May 3, 2021 UW announces COVID-19 vaccine requirement for students The University of Washington on Monday announced it will require all students on all three of its campuses to be vaccinated against COVID-19 before the start of the autumn quarter. The announcement comes with six weeks remaining in the spring quarter to provide time for students who are in the area to get vaccinated before summer. Read more April 20, 2021 Oral history project captures Washingtonians’ pandemic experiences Manuel S. Martinez, a lifelong campesino, trabajador and community organizer, recalls the beginning of the pandemic. Interviewed by UW student Adriana Martinez. Zoom, masks, family and politics — these are some of the lasting memories shared by participants in a University of Washington student oral history project. Undergraduate seniors in the Public Health Global Health major at… Read more How lessons from past emergencies could improve the pandemic response The federal government, in its response to the COVID-19 pandemic, could learn from how the nation responded to Hurricane Katrina, 9/11 and the H1N1 swine flu, a new University of Washington study found. Read more April 13, 2021 Vaccines debate: ‘Escape variants’ of the coronavirus are a serious future threat With COVID-19 cases on the rise again in many parts of the country — including Washington state where three counties were pushed back to Phase 2 effective Friday — there’s a growing debate between continuing to give both doses of Moderna or Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines close together, or giving them months apart in order to get… Read more April 7, 2021 Perinatal patients, nurses explain how hospital pandemic policies failed them With a lethal, airborne virus spreading fast, hospitals had to change how they treated patients and policies for how caregivers provided that treatment. But for maternity patients and nurses some of those changes had negative outcomes, according to a new University of Washington study. “We found that visitor restrictions and separation policies were harming families… Read more April 1, 2021 CDC, UW study finds significant vaccine distrust within incarcerated populations, increasing risks Fewer than half of inmates in jails and prisons surveyed in a study by the CDC and University of Washington said they would accept a COVID-19 vaccine, while the majority either said they wanted to wait before getting the vaccine or would refuse one. “This is a population already at risk for COVID-19, and outbreaks… Read more March 24, 2021 ‘Reservoir of disease’ within young population shows challenge for Washington’s reopening plans An analysis of Washington state Department of Health data — published after peer review March 24 — has found that people under 40 years old have continued to become infected by the coronavirus at increasing rates even as the incidence of infection among older populations declines. The publication was available previously in preprint form on… Read more March 16, 2021 Relearning normalcy, focusing on the positive: UW psychologist on the vaccine phase of the pandemic University of Washington psychology professor Jane Simoni discusses how COVID-19 vaccines are gradually spurring the return to normal life, and the role of positive public health messaging. Read more March 4, 2021 A year with COVID-19: A chronology of how the UW adapted — and responded — to the pandemic On March 6, 2020, the University of Washington became the first university in the U.S. to announce a move to remote instruction and work in an effort to slow the spread of the novel coronavirus. Here’s a look back at the past year, from the perspectives of how the UW community adapted and the impact the… Read more Video: UW students join the front lines of the vaccination effort By the end of February, around 350 UW students had signed up to be volunteer vaccinators in clinics from Tacoma to Marysville. Read more February 25, 2021 Q&A: Race, medicine and the future power of genetic ancestry Writing in the New England Journal of Medicine that they “do not believe that ignoring race will reduce health disparities” but rather that “such an approach is a form of naive ‘color blindness’ that is more likely to perpetuate and potentially exacerbate disparities,” five Black geneticists set out to explain the pitfalls of leaving race… Read more January 19, 2021 UW health law expert: COVID-19 vaccine rollout presents ethical, logistical questions University of Washington law professor Pat Kuszler provides perspectives on the ethical issues of COVID-19 vaccine distribution. Read more January 8, 2021 COVID-19 vaccines are ‘remarkable achievement,’ but soothing mistrust is necessary to end pandemic “Of course, we didn’t put Democrats in the vial; we didn’t put Republicans in the vial,” University of Washington’s Dr. Larry Corey writes in a recent COVID-19 Vaccine Matters blog jointly produced by Johns Hopkins University and the UW. While development of vaccines now being distributed to combat COVID-19, the deadly disease caused by the novel coronavirus, are… Read more December 28, 2020 In pandemic milestone, UW brings COVID-19 vaccines to frontline health care workers The first scheduled to receive vaccinations were frontline personnel working with COVID-19 patients. In addition to patient-care staff in intensive care units, COVID acute care floors and emergency departments, the immediate list also included environmental services staff, as well as emergency medical responders in the community. Next in line are nursing home residents and their caregivers. Read more Video: News and research highlights from 2020 As the year draws to a close, we present highlights from video stories produced by UW News during 2020 — a year that will be largely defined by the COVID-19 pandemic and the many ways it impacted our lives and work. Read more December 15, 2020 How to have holidays ‘full of love and connection’ and set goals for 2021 The COVID-19 pandemic and social-distancing guidelines have changed how we celebrate the holidays this year. University of Washington psychologist Jonathan Kanter explains that, by being intentional about how we approach and experience the season, we can find joy, and recognize – even embrace – how we’ve weathered this year. Read more December 14, 2020 Highlights: UW, Johns Hopkins symposium on preserving scientific integrity in COVID-19 vaccine research Johns Hopkins University and the University of Washington brought together leading experts in October to explore these issues and put forward a concise plan for protecting the scientific integrity of these lifesaving efforts. Here’s a 4-minute highlight reel of the symposium. Read more December 8, 2020 Policies around pregnancy, birth during pandemic failing both patients and nurses As an experienced nurse midwife, whose scientific research focuses on respectful and equitable care during pregnancy and childbirth, the University of Washington’s Molly Altman has been studying pregnancy and childbirth during the pandemic alongside colleagues across the UW and in affected communities. While her work is being distilled into formal studies that will be submitted… Read more December 2, 2020 COVID-19 vaccines may not prevent spread of virus, so mask-wearing, other protections still critical Excitement and relief over news of vaccines that help prevent people from getting sick, winding up in the hospital or dying from COVID-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, are warranted, says University of Washington’s Dr. Larry Corey. But, these messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccines may not prevent people from getting infected or spreading the virus…. Read more November 30, 2020 Washington nonprofits feel more urgency during this ‘season of giving’ Nonprofit organizations throughout Washington state are struggling during the COVID-19 pandemic, as revenues and volunteering drop but demand for services remains high. Read more November 24, 2020 UW public health expert calls on state officials, citizens to defend and rebuild public health agencies Even before the pandemic and disagreements over social restrictions recommended by public health officials across the state, public health agencies in Washington were struggling due to a lack of resources. In recent weeks, firings, resignations and death threats targeting local health officials has led to a staffing crisis in the agencies most responsible for local… Read more Q&A: Animal Crossing to K-pop: Gaming, music fandom groups provide human connection during the pandemic In this Q&A, UW Information School associate professor Jin Ha Lee discusses how video game and music fandom communities can be “places of light” during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read more November 23, 2020 US seafood industry flounders due to COVID-19 The global pandemic is hurting the seafood industry, and American fishmongers may flounder without more government aid, according to the largest study of COVID-19’s impacts on U.S. fisheries. Read more November 2, 2020 Video: Free coronavirus testing for UW community open for more enrollment The Husky Coronavirus Testing program, powered by the Seattle Flu Study, launched on Sept. 24 and now has more than 12,500 members of the UW community enrolled and has conducted more than 10,000 tests. Read more October 29, 2020 Models show how COVID-19 cuts a neighborhood path A research team led by UC Irvine and the University of Washington has created a new model of how the coronavirus can spread through a community. The model factors in network exposure — whom one interacts with — and demographics to simulate at a more detailed level both where and how quickly the coronavirus could spread through Seattle and 18 other major cities. Read more October 22, 2020 COVID-19: CDC advisory committee hones in on vaccine rollout recommendations When a vaccine to fight COVID-19 has been approved by the FDA for distribution, it’s unlikely that at first there will be enough doses for everyone. Consequently, the United States will need an equitable and effective plan for who gets those first doses, how they get them and who’s next. Just as important, that plan… Read more October 21, 2020 Pandemic further isolating older adults, as senior services struggle to adapt A new UW study of senior services in Washington during the COVID-19 pandemic reveals providers’ concerns about isolation, and worsening mental and physical health among older adults. Read more October 12, 2020 Engineering lecture focuses on contact tracing: Monitoring COVID-19 infections while respecting privacy This fall the UW’s annual engineering lecture will feature Stefano Tessaro, an associate professor in the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering. Read more Next page Search UW News Search for: UW Experts Ukraine Climate COVID-19 Full directory Categories Browse Administrative affairs Arts and entertainment Buildings and grounds Education Engineering Environment For UW employees Health and medicine Honors and awards Interactive Learning News releases News roundups Official notices Politics and government Population Health Profiles Research Science Social science Technology UW and the community UW Notebook UW Today blog Latest news releases Critical race theory at center of UW study of unequal access to treatment for opioid addiction 3 days ago Seattle democracy vouchers increase donations, number of candidates in city elections 4 days ago Social cohesion found to be key risk factor in early COVID infections 1 week ago More Connect Campus publications A&S Perspectives College of Education University of Washington Magazine The Daily UW Press More publications Evans School Foster School of Business UW Medicine Newsroom Information School IT Connect News Jackson School Law School News President's blog School of Dentistry School of Nursing School of Pharmacy School of Public Health School of Social Work The Trend in Engineering UW Libraries: News & Events UW Video Washington Engineer UW Today Newsletter Subscribe UW Today Daily UW Today Week in Review If you're trying to subscribe with a non-UW email address, please email uwnews@uw.edu for assistance. For UW employees Submission guidelines Submission form University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA