Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Applied Sociology (MA) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Sciences Department(s) Sociology In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. A primary focus of the program is the variety of social problems in society. Toward this objective, the program promotes the application of sociological and social psychological knowledge, principles, and research skills in a variety of organizational, community, and institutional settings. Examples of competencies in applied sociology include effective skills in program design and evaluation research; planning, feasibility and needs assessment studies; data management, analysis and presentation; and the application of general systems and social conflict theories to organizational problems, community development and planned change. Degree seeking students in the Applied Sociology Program may elect to follow either a thesis or a non-thesis course of study. The thesis option is typically designed for students who plan to enter doctoral programs. The non-thesis option is more appropriate for students entering or continuing professional careers following the MA degree. The degree of Master of Arts is conferred when students have fulfilled the requirements for either the thesis or non-thesis option. Both options require 30 hours of course work. Total Credit Hours Required: 30 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Request Information View Full Description Program Tracks/Options Medical Sociology Domestic Violence Application Deadlines Domestic International Summer April 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Spring July 1 Summer November 1 Fall January 15 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. City Planning Aide Comparative Sociology Professor Criminologist Economic Research Assistant Economist Research Assistant Family Sociologist Historian Research Assistant Penologist Political Science Research Assistant Psychologist Research Assistant Race Relations Professor Rural Sociologist Social Organization Professor Sociologist Sociology Research Assistant Urban Sociologist Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Sciences programs Masters Applied Sociology (MA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Applied Sociology (MA) program offered at UCF. Loading... × A primary focus of the program is the variety of social problems in society. Toward this objective, the program promotes the application of sociological and social psychological knowledge, principles, and research skills in a variety of organizational, community, and institutional settings. Examples of competencies in applied sociology include effective skills in program design and evaluation research; planning, feasibility and needs assessment studies; data management, analysis and presentation; and the application of general systems and social conflict theories to organizational problems, community development and planned change. Degree seeking students in the Applied Sociology Program may elect to follow either a thesis or a non-thesis course of study. The thesis option is typically designed for students who plan to enter doctoral programs. The non-thesis option is more appropriate for students entering or continuing professional careers following the MA degree. The degree of Master of Arts is conferred when students have fulfilled the requirements for either the thesis or non-thesis option. Both options require 30 hours of course work. Total Credit Hours Required: 30 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Degree Requirements Required Courses 12 Total Credits Complete all of the following Students receive an independent learning experience in the core by completing a research study in each of the 12 hours of required courses. SYA 5625 - ProSeminar Should be taken as early as possible in the program. Complete the following: SYA5625 - ProSeminar (3) SYA6126 - Social Theory (3) SYA6305 - Social Research (3) SYA6455 - Research Analysis (3) Elective Courses 12 Total Credits Earn at least 12 credits from the following types of courses: Students will select a minimum of 12 credit hours of unrestricted electives in consultation with their faculty advisor. No more than 3 hours may be taken in UCF graduate programs outside the department. The department's graduate director must approve all courses taken outside the department prior to enrollment. A listing and description of courses offered by the Department of Sociology is found in the "Courses"" section. Under special circumstances, students may enroll in a graduate-level Directed Independent Study course or a Directed Independent Research course to fulfill their nonrestricted elective course requirements. These courses, like most graduate seminars, require written research deliverables. Enrollment in these courses requires written approval from the student's advisor and graduate director. No more than 6 hours of graduate-level courses in Directed Independent Study or Directed Independent Research may be included in a student's program of study. Nonthesis students may substitute up to 6 hours of their elective course work by completing a graduate practicum/internship (SYA 6946). The practicum must be approved by the student's permanent adviser and the department's graduate program director. ThesisNonthesis Option 6 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following Thesis Option Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: The thesis option requires a minimum of 6 hours of thesis credit and a successful defense of a thesis. Students may enroll in thesis hours after they have successfully completed the four required courses and their thesis committee has been approved by the department, college, and Graduate Studies. The students' permanent faculty adviser will chair their committee, which also will include two additional graduate sociology faculty members in the department. The additional members of the thesis committee are selected in consultation with the student's permanent faculty adviser. When a topic has been selected, students, in conjunction with their permanent adviser, will develop a thesis proposal. Copies of the proposal will be routed to members of their thesis committee and a proposal hearing scheduled. All students must pass a proposal hearing as well as a final oral defense of their thesis. Students who elect to write a thesis should become familiar with the university's requirements and deadlines for organizing and submitting the thesis. Nonthesis Option Complete all of the following The nonthesis option requires that students complete SYA 6657 - Program Design and Evaluation and 3 additional hours of SYA 6918 - Directed Research, SYA 6946 - Internship or Practicum, SYA 6909 - Research Report, or SYA 6908 - Directed Independent Studies. Both the Program Design and Evaluation course (SYA 6657) and "directed research or internship" courses require community-oriented research projects to develop research skills in sociology. Complete the following: SYA6657 - Program Design and Evaluation (3) Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: SYA 6918 Directed Research 3 Credit Hours SYA 6946 Internship or Practicum 3 Credit Hours SYA 6909 Research Report 3 Credit Hours SYA 6908 Directed Independent Studies 3 Credit Hours Applied Project Nonthesis students must complete an applied project. The nature and implementation of each project will be determined by the student and their advisor. Before students may begin the applied project, they must earn a grade of "B" (3.0) or better in each of the five core courses. An Applied Project evaluated by a three-person committee consists of: A 1-2 page proposal describing what the project and the final product will entail. A final product approved and evaluated by the committee. A brief statement submitted with the final product indicating how the project is sociologically grounded. The grading system for the project is Pass/No Pass. Students who receive a grade of Pass will be allowed to graduate assuming all other requirements are met. Equipment Fee 0 Total Credits Full-time students in the Applied Sociology MA program pay a $39 equipment fee each semester that they are enrolled. Part-time students pay $19.50 per semester. Independent Learning 0 Total Credits As with all graduate programs, independent learning is an important component in the Applied Sociology master's program. Students will demonstrate independent learning through research seminars and the thesis (thesis students only). Grand Total Credits: 30 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. The GRE is not required for admission to this program. Three letters of recommendation, including at least two from academic sources familiar with the applicant's academic abilities. A personal statement of 250-500 words identifying areas of research interest as it connected to thematic areas of UCF Sociology, faculty with whom they would like to work, and describing the applicant's academic and professional experience and goals. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. The applicant's records will be reviewed on an individual basis for academic deficiencies and evaluated to assess their potential for success in the program. Supplemental course work may be recommended. Meeting minimum UCF admission criteria does not guarantee program admission. Final admission is based on evaluation of the applicant's abilities, past performance, recommendations, match of this program to the applicant's career/academic goals, and the applicant's potential for completing the degree. Note also that there is no automatic connection between acceptance as a non-degree-seeking student and acceptance into this degree-granting program. Consult the graduate program director whenever questions arise. Application Deadlines Sociology MA, Applied *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jul 1 Nov 1 Apr 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Jul 1 Nov 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida