Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Accessibility Menu Main Nav Accessibility Back Back Close Getting Around Campus Accommodations Resources Technology Accessibility Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Accommodations Home Accommodations Boston College is committed to providing accommodations to students, faculty, staff and visitors with disabilities. There are two separate offices at BC that coordinate services for students with disabilities. The Connors Family Learning Center (CFLC) coordinates services for students with LD and ADHD. The Disabilities Services Office (DSO) coordinates services for all other disabilities. Students Information for Faculty Visitors Employees Boston College is committed to ensuring that students have access to resources. In this section you will find resources for housing, dining and academic support. Disability Services Accommodations Process Policies & Compliance Service & Assistance Animals Law School Students Student-Athlete Academic Services Library Accessibility Services Parking Dining Dining Services provides services to our customers with medical diagnoses that require modified diets as treatment by our Executive Dietitian Sheila Tucker. Appointments can be made with Betsy Cook in the Office of Health Promotion at 2-9900. In addition, customers with physical disabilities can reach out to any dining services employee or our manager on duty for assistance. BC Dining Faculty members may choose to include a statement on their syllabus regarding disabilty services. Suggested syllabi statement. Canvas Learning Management System The Canvas Learning Management System Certified as Equally Accessible to Blind and Sighted Users Improving the Accessibility of Your Course Universal Design for Learning For more information, visit the The Center for Teaching Excellence. Accommodations for People with Disabilities Individuals visiting campus who have immediate needs should contact the Boston College Police Department. Boston College's McMullen Museum of Art is free and open to the public. Visitor Parking information Campus Tours Athletics Alumni Stadium has designated seating locations for individuals with disabilities attending events and may be purchased with one adjacent companion seat. Please contact the Ticket Office for availability at 617-552-3000 for more information regarding disability seating. Accommodations for People with Disabilities Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College