Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Professional & Liberal Studies Areas of Study Online Resources Community Engagement Connect Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Find the program that's right for you Become a part of CPLS Advising Appointments Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home College of Professional & Liberal Studies Resources Recommendation Letters Recommendation Letter Requirements All College of Professional & Liberal Studies graduate programs (certificates and degrees) require applicants to submit one or more recommendation letters. This is an important part of the application process, as recommenders often give important insight into a student's academic or professional promise. Listed below are the mandatory requirements for all recommendation letters, as well as additional tips for maximizing their value to the admissions committee. Applicants are strongly advised to familiarize themselves with these requirements and to clearly convey them to the people writing letters on their behalf. Mandatory Requirements Any letters that do not meet these criteria will not be accepted: Must include the recommender's hand-written signature. Must include the date on which the letter was written. Must clearly explain how the recommender knows the applicant, in what capacity, and for what length of time. Must be submitted on the recommender's official letterhead. Must include the recommender's contact information (including email address, if any). Must be sent in one of the following ways: The recommender may send a hard copy of the letter directly to College of Professional & Liberal Studies by mail, or The applicant may forward the recommender's sealed letter to College of Professional & Liberal Studies by mail (we cannot accept it if the original letter has been opened), or The recommender may send a PDF of the signed and dated letter on official letterhead to College of Professional & Liberal Studies by email (this is the preferred method, and by far the fastest). Additional Tips The best recommendation letters typically come from people who have been in a position to objectively evaluate the applicant's specific contributions to a completed professional or academic endeavor. Recommendations from past professors, college administrators, or work supervisors are preferred. Please do not submit letters from relatives, friends, or classmates. The more specific a recommendation letter can be about the applicant's particular readiness for his/her chosen profession or field of graduate study, the better. For applicants with lower GPAs or lower test scores, oftentimes the recommendation letters can greatly increase the chances of admission (especially if they directly address the applicant's grades and why he/she is nonetheless prepared for graduate-level study). Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/13/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.