Kansas State University search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »One Stop »Academics »Academic Support Student Guide to Help and Resources: One Stop Shop Home Academics Majors and Programs Academic Support See all of Academics Paying for College Financial Resources Jobs See all of Paying for College Student Life Get Involved Living Options Sports and Recreation Arts and Culture Diversity and Multicultural Student Affairs K-State Student Union Events Graduation and Beyond See all of Student Life Health and Safety Health Safety See all of Health and Safety Technology Designated Access See all of Technology Academics home Majors and Programs Academic Support Vice President for Student Life Kansas State University 122 Anderson Hall Manhattan, KS 66506-0102 785-532-6237 vpsl@k-state.edu Academic support From academic advising to assistance with course work, Kansas State University supports your success as a student and beyond. In the classroom Student Success Resources The Academic Achievement Center (AAC) is a free resource for all K-State students. Equip yourself with the tools needed to succeed, engage in your coursework, and feel empowered by your ability to achieve academic success. The AAC offers free small group and online tutoring through Tutoring Services, Academic Coaching to develop strategies to maximize your personal strengths and conquer difficult classes, and Student Success Courses to learn the skills and strategies needed to be successful at K-State. Tutoring Manhattan campus: In addition to the tutoring services offered through the Academic Achievement Center, students also have access to various tutoring opportunities through their own departments. For example, engineering students can utilize Scholars Assisting Scholars Tutoring. Salina campus: Peer tutoring is available for students seeking additional resources and assistance. Writing Center Manhattan campus: The K-State Writing Center on the Manhattan campus offers one-to-one consultations about writing projects with students from all disciplines, both on-campus and online, as well as workshops for graduate students. Salina campus: The Salina campus also has its own local Writing Center. Access and Student Accommodation Services Manhattan campus: A wide range of academic accommodations and services are available to students with documented disabilities through the Student Access Center. Salina campus: You can find assistance if you require academic accommodations and other support services. Academic student success programs and services Take part in one of the many programs and services Kansas State University has to help guide you in your academic success. For all students International Student and Scholar Services provides assistance to international students through advising and more. The Student Access Center offers supportive services to students with disabilities. The Class and Research Guides offer resources to perform research for classes. For undergraduate students The Academic Intervention Program is designed for domestic multicultural students to connect them with resources on campus and provide them with the academic support they need to be successful in college. Developing Scholars offers underrepresented students research projects in their field of study with faculty mentors. Educational Supportive Services provides tutoring, academic troubleshooting, and advising services to help eligible students improve class performance and find academic, financial, and career resources on campus and in the community. First Scholars offers services to first generation program students based on a holistic development model. K-State First offers first-year seminars, CAT Communities, and the Guide to Personal Success program for first-year students. McNair Scholar Program prepares eligible undergraduates to apply for and succeed in graduate school so they can become professors and professional researchers. From developing strategies to maximizing personal strengths, Academic Coaching opens up conversations related to student success. Coaches meet with students one-on-one to support them as they identify and reach academic goals, develop study and life skills, and find motivation and purpose. University Experience is a student success course for first-year students that combines an orientation to K-State with academic skills instruction and direct application of study techniques. For graduate students The Graduate School offers various seminars and workshops including Student Success Seminars, which help students understand important requirements, deadlines and procedures to help make the journey to degree completion as smooth as possible. In collaboration with the Graduate School, K-State Libraries, and International and Student Scholar Services, the English Department's Writing Center offers workshops to help graduate students develop effective writing skills. For online students Online/distance students have access to countless student success resources to assist students throughout their entire K-State experience. Online/distance students can also arrange for online exams and proctored testing. Research help K-State Libraries is here to help on your next assignment or research project. The library offers research tools and other services. Stop by the help desk in Hale library, the Math/Physics library, the Veterinary Medical library, or the Weigel Architecture library on the Manhattan campus, or the Salina campus library on the Salina campus. Also, you can electronically ask a librarian your research questions or access millions of library resources at one time with the search engine, Search It. Additionally, in the fall graduate students can benefit from free hour-long "The Library and Your Research" workshops designed to provide you with a solid foundation for a successful academic experience. Visit the K-State Libraries Faculty and Graduate Services website for a full schedule. Get your footing Taking simple steps to take care of yourself can give you a boost in both your academic and personal lives. K-State Counseling Services offers many online resources, from tips on managing your time to free programs over academic anxiety. Find help Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 4/13/22