Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home News & Events Student Events Student Events Find your Hoosier experience There’s always something to do at IU! From concerts to films to getting active, there are countless ways to get involved and create meaningful, memorable experiences with your fellow Hoosiers. Upcoming events Jul 02 Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat Starts at 2 p.m. Wells-Metz Theatre - Jul 02 The 39 Steps Starts at 7:30 p.m. Wells-Metz Theatre - Jul 03 The 39 Steps Starts at 2 p.m. Wells-Metz Theatre - Jul 03 Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat Starts at 7:30 p.m. Wells-Metz Theatre - Jul 04 The 39 Steps Starts at 7:30 p.m. Wells-Metz Theatre - Jul 04 Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat Starts at 7:30 p.m. Wells-Metz Theatre - See all featured events Second Year Experience The spring semester still has many firsts for second-year students. Our Second Year Experience program offers tips, resources, and events to ensure you (and all Hoosiers!) have what you need to succeed.Go to the Second Year Experience website There’s more to experience outside the classroom There are over 750 student organizations on campus, dozens of sororities and fraternities with over 6,000 of your classmates, and countless ways to expand your social circle. Find your way to get involved Make an impact through service The IU Corps service network is your way to find meaningful service opportunities both on and off campus. Whatever cause you care about, however you like to serve, IU Corps will help you make a difference. Check out IU Corps Check out these signature events Chill to some live outdoor music, get ideas for new games to try, or cheer at the top of your lungs. There’s no place like IU. First Thursdays Every first Thursday of the month, the Arts Plaza in front of IU Auditorium comes alive so you can experience the work of artists, performers, and scholars from across campus and around town—ranging from opera to breakdancing—and create something of your own. Explore First Thursdays IU Late Nite Late Nite offers free, fun events at the Indiana Memorial Union (IMU) every Friday night starting at 9 p.m. There is a new lineup of activities and attractions every week: karaoke, craft nites, haunted houses, dances, game nites, and so much more! Check out IU Late Nite Union Board Films Union Board Films, the country’s longest-running college film series, has been screening films to the IU community since 1914. Most films are shown at the IMU’s Whittenberger Auditorium (on the first floor), however some screenings take place outdoors, too. Find out what's playing Athletics IU offers 24 men’s and women’s sports, including football, basketball, soccer, and swimming. Put on your candy stripes, gather your friends, and cheer on the Hoosiers! See the schedule and get tickets First Year Experience Whether you’ve got a semester under your belt or you started in January, the Office of First Year Experience Programs has you covered. Hoosier Experience The best way to live, think, and play like a Hoosier. Find events and more happening here. Invite your family None of us at IU have forgotten friends and family back home. Stay connected and find out ways parents can be involved on campus or from home. Get outdoors . . . Indiana weather can be unpredictable, but one thing’s for sure—we have some beautiful places for you to explore. Feel like hiking? Indiana’s state parks have you covered. The closest ones to IU are Brown County State Park and McCormick’s Creek State Park. Don’t feel like going that far? Head just north of campus to discover the trails at Griffy Lake. Want to learn a new skill? From canoeing to wilderness first aid, IU Outdoor Adventures has a course for you. We’re no Colorado, for sure . . . but did you know you can go skiing right here in Southern Indiana? You’ll find Paoli Peaks just about an hour south of town. And if you’re outdoors on a clear night, see if you can spot the International Space Station flying overhead. . . . or just pretend to get outdoors Dreaming of a nice warm beach? Missing the hustle and bustle of the Big Apple? Feel like going on safari in Africa? Live webcams can show you what’s happening around the world—including a view from space. Visit a museum (in person or virtually) You can explore the world without leaving campus by heading to the Sidney and Lois Eskenazi Museum of Art. Or check out the museum’s collections online without even leaving your room. If you’re looking for a day trip to Indy, the Indiana State Museum and the Eiteljorg Museum are great options. And of course there are tons of online options, like the Indianapolis Children’s Museum, the National Museum of Natural History, the Louvre, and the Salvador Dalí Museum. Explore a new culture Discover the world outside of Indiana without even leaving Bloomington. The campus and town are home to more than 150 international and multicultural student organizations, 6 cultural centers and institutes, and 80 restaurants offering international cuisine—including the famed Restaurant Row. Get active RecSports facilities and Bowling & Billiards in the IMU are open! Or you can work out with RecSports at home or find streaming workouts that fit your style (and your budget), such as Alo Moves, Les Mills, or Mindbody. Be well It’s important to take care of yourself. The Student Health Center is here to help with medical services, counseling (CAPS) services, and more, including virtual visits. Need some help relaxing? Check out upcoming mindfulness workshops and other events at the Student Health Center. Student Health Center calendar Jun 01 Beginning Mindfulness Meditation - CAPS Workshop 1:30 p.m.—2:30 p.m. Online - Jun 01 Queer Space - CAPS Support Group 3:30 p.m.—4:30 p.m. Jun 02 Motivating Change - CAPS Support Group 3:30 p.m.—4:30 p.m. Online via Zoom - Jun 02 Gender Expressions - CAPS Support Group 3:30 p.m.—4:30 p.m. Online via zoom - Jun 03 Chronic Illness - CAPS Support Group 11 a.m.—12 p.m. Jun 03 Grief and Loss - CAPS Support Group 3 p.m.—4 p.m. Online via Zoom - See all Student Health Center events Have spare time? Use some of it to check a few things off of your IU Bucket List—or start your own list. Herman B Wells Cake Description of the video: [MUSIC] [VIDEO: A fork cuts into a piece of frosted cake.] [WORDS APPEAR: Indiana University Presents: Herman B Wells Cake, IU Bloomington.] [VIDEO: A baker demonstrates each step to make the cake.] [WORDS APPEAR: Sugar, two and two-thirds cups. Butter, one and one half cups.] [VIDEO: The baker puts the sugar and softened butter in the bowl of a stand mixer and sets it aside.] [WORDS APPEAR: Flour, four and one half cups. Baking powder, two tablespoons. Salt, one teaspoon.] [VIDEO: The baker combines the dry ingredients in a separate bowl and sets it aside.] [WORDS APPEAR: Nine egg whites. Buttermilk, two cups. Vanilla extract, one tablespoon.] [VIDEO: The baker combines the liquid ingredients together, then adds them to the mixer in batches, alternating with the dry ingredients and mixing between each addition.] [WORDS APPEAR: Divide batter into two nine-by-thirteen pans lined with parchment paper.] [VIDEO: The baker divides the batter and smooths it with a rubber spatula.] [WORDS APPEAR: Bake at three hundred and fifty degrees until toothpick comes out clean.] [VIDEO: The baker puts the cake into an oven, then removes the baked cake.] [WORDS APPEAR: Slice bananas and strawberries for layering.] [VIDEO: The baker slices the fruit into thin slices and puts each pile of fruit slices into a separate bowl.] [WORDS APPEAR: Spread whipped cream on first layer. Add banana slices.] [VIDEO: The baker spreads whipped cream on a layer of the cake, then lays out banana slices in neat rows.] [WORDS APPEAR: Add another layer of whipped cream. Add strawberry slices and a third layer of whipped cream.] [VIDEO: The baker spreads whipped cream over the bananas, lays out strawberry slices in neat rows, and then spreads whipped cream over the strawberries.] [WORDS APPEAR: Add second layer of cake and cover in whipped cream.] [VIDEO: The baker frosts the cake and begins piping whipped cream decorations. They then sprinkle red jimmies on the cake. A person cuts a piece of cake and uses a cake server to place it on a red plate.] [WORDS APPEAR: Enjoy President Herman B Wells’ favorite cake!] [VIDEO: A fork cuts into a piece of frosted cake.] [END OF TRANSCRIPT] Level up your kitchen skills If you have access to a kitchen, you can get a taste of IU with this playlist of cooking vids we’ve curated for you: First Lady Ellen Erlich’s Coffee Cake Bruce’s Fabulous Cocoa Butterscotch Cookies Turkey Hot Brown Ba-by-ke Keep learning And, of course, keep doing the work that brought you to Indiana University in the first place. We have tools to help boost your success, including tips for navigating technology, caring for yourself, staying connected, and more.Find out more at Keep Learning Still looking for something to do? Check our Insta for more inspo Browse beINvolved events Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University