Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Urgent Medical Concerns Urgent Medical Concerns Medical Services assists Columbia students with urgent medical concerns. We recognize there are times when a sudden, serious illness, or injury may require immediate care. Urgent medical problems include sudden, serious and unexpected illness, injuries or conditions which require immediate medical attention. Most urgent, non-life threatening medical problems can be evaluated at Medical Services during regular office hours. If you have a more significant emergency (severe chest pain, sudden shortness of breath, severe injury, etc.) call public safety at 212-854-5555 and they will assist you. If you are not able to web book a same day appointment for your urgent health care need, please call 212-854-7426 and ask to speak with the triage nurse. What to expect when you call for an urgent concern: Please be prepared to speak with a health care associate who will record your name, phone number and medical concern to provide to a triage nurse. The nurse will return your call within 1 hour. Please note that during busy times this can be longer. The nurse will speak with you and assess your concern, ask you about your symptoms and speak with a medical team member if necessary. The nurse and medical team will recommend the best way to get you the care you need. If an urgent medical visit is advised you will be scheduled to see a provider at medical services or at an urgent care or Emergency department near you. If your condition does not require immediate care the nurse will assist you with scheduling a future appointment with your Primary Care Provider (PCP) or facilitate contact with your PCP for appropriate follow up. If you are instructed to come to Medical Services: Please make sure you have completed the daily symptom self-attestation via the ReOpenCU app. If you have a Red Pass, you may still be seen at medical services. Please inform the front desk staff upon checking in. Students experiencing an acute condition (e.g., chest pain, shortness of breath, or severe abdominal pain) should inform the staff immediately. Follow public health measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Rarely, students have conditions that cannot be fully evaluated or treated at Medical Services. In these instances, arrangements are promptly made for students to be transferred to Mount Sinai St. Luke’s Hospital Emergency Room or to be given a referral to see a specialist located outside of Columbia Health. What will a visit cost? The Columbia Health and Related Services Fee covers visits to Medical Services. For students not enrolled in Columbia Health, a fee will be charged per visit. For more information about the costs for care, read our Cost of Service page. Know Your Coverage: Read your plan policy carefully to understand what services will be covered during an emergency before you need them. After-hours Emergencies and Same-day Concerns Off-campus, dial 911. On-campus, call Public Safety at 212-854-5555. The nearest emergency room is Mount Sinai Morningside Emergency Room at 113th Street and Amsterdam Avenue; it is open 24 hours a day. If students have an urgent concern after clinic hours, contact the clinician-on-call at 212-854-7426. Our expert telephone triage specialists will assess concerns and provide recommendations for care. If there is any difficulty with contacting our clinician-on-call, students may also call 855-779-7132 to speak with a triage specialist. Make an Appointment Medical Services Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Medical Services Clinical Specialty Physical Health and Wellbeing Sexual and Reproductive Health Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close