Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Office of the Registrar University Scheduling Office Office of the Registrar Important Graduation Related Deadlines ****ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS**** Important Spring 2022 Graduation Related Deadlines Read more. University Scheduling Office Welcome to the University Scheduling Office The University Scheduling Office, within the Office of the Registrar, is responsible for scheduling all credit-bearing courses, as well as non-academic events, meetings, practices, lectures, and conferences. We reserve indoor space and campus greens and courtyards. We work closely with Student Activities, the Dean of the College, and other academic and administrative departments to ensure the proper placement of your event or course. If you are planning an event for your office, we can advise you on the location most appropriately suited for the activity. For one-time and recurring reservations such as meetings, lectures, discussion sections, film screenings, make-up classes, midterm exams, and events, please use our improved user interface at https://space-reservations.brown.edu/. For more complex reservations such as Commencement, Family Weekend, or extensive, multi-day conferences, it may be best to utilize 25live (https://25live.collegenet.com/brown/) to submit your reservations. *Both applications are supported with Firefox, Safari or Chrome and the latest version of Internet Explorer* Note Well: All regularly scheduled classes in Banner / [email protected] are reserved through a separate process. Neither is booked through the above sites. To cancel your reservation, please log in to https://space-reservations.brown.edu/ and navigate to the My Reservations page. Find your event under "Confirmed Reservations" and click Cancel. You are responsible for cancelling your own service arrangements with each individual provider (Media Services, Facilities, Catering, etc). Related Files Splitting/Rotating Course Enrollments for the 2020/2021 Academic Year Academic Calendar Academic Records University Bulletin Course Enrollment Degree Guidelines Final Exams Faculty/Staff Resources University Scheduling Office Scheduling Policies Tutorials and FAQs Classroom Assignments & Locations Contact Us Gateways For Students For Faculty For Staff Print this Page Share this Page Office of the Registrar Brown University Box K 69 Brown Street Page-Robinson Hall, 3rd floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2500 Fax 401-863-7542 [email protected] Academic Calendar Jun 2 All Day Registration period for Summer courses for Brown undergraduates re-opens at 9:00 a.m.EDT and remains open until Wednesday June 22 at 5:00 p.m. EDT Jun 19 All Day Residence halls open. Jun 20 All Day Juneteenth Holiday observed. No University exercises. Jun 20 All Day Summer Session opens. Jun 21 All Day Summer Session classes begin. Jun 22 All Day Last day to change courses (5:00 p.m. EDT deadline). (All students MUST be in their registered courses by Thursday, June 23.) Jul 4 All Day Independence Day holiday. No University exercises. Jul 6 All Day Last day to change grade options (5:00 p.m. EDT deadline) Jul 29 All Day Classes end. Jul 30 All Day Reading Period View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Student Links [email protected] Banner Video Tutorials Banner Web Student Information Rights - FERPA Voter Registration ASK - Advising Sidekick Related Offices Admission Dean of the College Alpert Medical School Bulletin of the University Bursar Financial Aid Graduate School School of Professional Studies