Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Human Resources Retirement Retirement Medicare Social Security Working at SMU Working at SMU Staff Careers Faculty Careers Temporary Jobs Student Jobs Internal Applicant Get Involved Living In Dallas Benefits & Wellness Benefits & Wellness Health and Other Benefits Wellness Information Learning & Development Learning & Development Total Orientation Process for New Employees On-Demand Learning Professional Development Manager Development Workshops Manager Orientation Enrollment Instructions Cancel Enrollment or Switch Sessions Customized Learning Experiences Consultation FAQ for the LawRoom Training Tutorials Workshop Facilitators HR Training Room Linked-In Learning Courses Manager Lunch and Learn Series SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Continuing Education Credits/Units - Proof of Attendance Reference Library Training Summary Resources Resources New Employee Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Work-Life Resources Manager Resources Retiree Resources Safety at SMU SMU's Mission and Code of Ethics Forms Forms All HR Forms & Resources Benefits Compensation General HR Forms Exiting SMU Performance Review Employee Recognition Talent Acquisition and Management ☰ Human Resources Human Resources Learning & Development Linked-In Learning Linked-In Learning Courses SMU's Linked-In Learning license allows faculty, staff and students to access and complete training courses anytime, anywhere and on multiple platforms (computer, phone and tablets). HR recommends the following courses for those wanting to grow in new areas or build skill in identified areas. Before beginning a course, you should download and review any course materials or exercises so that you are prepared when the instructions are announced. Upon course completion, email us your certificate of completion to add your accomplishment to your SMU training summary. If the option to download a certificate is not available send us an email with the course name and author and your name and SMU ID#. We will research the completion and add it to your training summary. Leading with Emotional Intelligence with Dr. Britt Andreatta Emotions are all around us in the office, and it's important for leaders to understand how to harness them to cultivate productivity and positive relationships. In this course, Britt Andreatta shares how to boost your emotional quotient (EQ) to better lead teams, work with peers, and manage up. Learn what emotional intelligence is and how it factors in at work, and discover concrete techniques for raising your own EQ. This includes perceiving yourself accurately, exercising emotional self-control, understanding and managing your triggers, and developing empathy. Then, turn those lessons around to build your awareness of others and become a more inspiring—and effective—leader. Learning Objectives: Analyze the brain science behind emotional intelligence. Identify and assess your emotions. Determine how to exercise emotional self-control. Identify your triggers and how to respond the them. Assess how others respond at work. Determine how to maximize team performance using emotional intelligence. Discover how to catalyze change Time: 1 hour, 2 minutes Leading and Working in Teams with Dr. Amy Edmondson Organizations thrive, or fail to thrive, based on how well the teams within those organizations work. What does it take to create a high-performing team? Based on her years of research working with teams across different industries, Harvard Business School professor Amy Edmondson reveals how high performance arises when teams are encouraged to take risks, fail, and learn from those small failures, a process she calls "teaming." In this course, she outlines what leaders can do to create the right environment for teaming and explains the responsibilities of individual team members to speak up, collaborate, experiment, and reflect. Time: 25 minutes Access the course at: https://www.linkedin.com/learning/leading-a nd-working-in-teams/working-across-boundaries-and-silos?u=2139050 Leadership Foundations with Dr. Britt Andreatta Do you want to cultivate leadership traits that will help you inspire your team, successfully manage change and conflict, and better serve the needs of your organization? In this course, leadership consultant and lynda.com Director of Learning and Development Britt Andreatta explains what real leadership is, how to assess your strengths, and ways to cultivate the traits the best leaders employ to make their organizations strong and innovative. The course includes information on developing and mentoring your team, creating an engaging workplace, developing political savvy, analyzing your industry, and honing your emotional intelligence. Learning Objectives: What is leadership, and when are you leading? Mapping your leadership competencies Dealing with changing scope and stakes Motivating and engaging others Increasing team performance Developing political acumen Creating a culture of trust and integrity Developing resilience Time 1 hour, 24 minutes Lynda.com is a PMI Registered Education Provider. This course qualifies for professional development units (PDUs). To view the activity and PDU details for this course, click here. Learning & Development Total Orientation Process (TOP) On-Demand Learning Professional Development Opportunities Manager Development Workshops Manager Orientation Enrollment Instructions Cancel Enrollment or Switch Sessions Customized Learning Experiences Consultation FAQ for the LawRoom Training Tutorials HR Facilitators HRTR Request Form Linked-In Learning Manager Lunch and Learn Series SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Continuing Education Credits/Units - Proof of Attendance Reference Library Training Summary Can't find what you need? DevelopU@smu.edu benefitsu@smu.edu 214-768-3311 Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share