Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Us Academics Research People Online Programs BE INNOVATIVE Join one of the largest and most active majors at Clemson. Create. Transform. Electrical and computer engineers developed many of the innovations that have influenced modern life. Advanced technology solutions include a broad range of areas within communications, electronics, computer architecture, and intelligent systems. Our faculty and graduate students are involved in impressive projects, and the department has been the recipient of several grant awards from national research programs. Our research activities are conducted in fully equipped laboratories, many of which are housed in the state-of-the-art Fluor Daniel Engineering Innovation Building. The College of Engineering, Computing & Applied Sciences is offering virtual online information sessions with the ability to attend a major-specific breakout session afterward. Tour Campus Design for Life Interesting Engineering featured Computer Engineering student Jake Ammons' ECE 8680 robotic sink project. Discover Programs. Fulbright Winner: Charles Dove Using Light for Communication Resources ECE News Blog Seminars Faculty Openings Contact Us Open Faculty Positions:Applications are still being accepted for the following: Milton W. Holcombe Endowed Chair in Electrical & Computer Engineering The Holcombe Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Clemson University is seeking applicants for the Milton W. Holcombe Endowed Chair in Electrical & Computer Engineering. This position will be at the rank of full Professor. The Department has a particular interest in highly qualified applicants in the following areas of specialization: (1) wireless, optical and/or hybrid communications, (2) quantum communication, (3) AI enabled communication systems, and (4) computational and compressive imaging and sensing. It is also desired that the candidate can collaboratively interact with faculty members throughout the College and the designated cross-disciplinary faculty clusters. APPLY TODAY Top News May 09 Lea Cook blazes a trail from technical college to the Clemson University graduation stage Read More May 04 ‘Mama Lisa’ is a Clemson University masterpiece Read More Apr 06 Three undergraduate researchers receive Goldwater Scholarship Read More Apr 05 Julio Rodriguez finds a community at Clemson University Read More Copyright © Clemson University The Holcombe Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering | Riggs Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 (864) 656-3190 | Email Us