Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Eating Concerns and Body Image Eating Concerns It’s common for people to have concerns about their diet, weight, and/or appearance. Sometimes these concerns can lead to unhealthy preoccupations with body weight or shape and eating habits. They can affect your self-esteem, and overall physical and emotional wellbeing. Soon, you may notice these preoccupations affecting other areas of life- choosing an extra workout over a favorite activity, missing out on a friend’s birthday gathering because you’re not comfortable eating the food that will be served. Precious time out of your day spent food logging or calorie counting. When these preoccupations begin invading your everyday thoughts and activities, taking more time out of your day, consider talking to a healthcare professional. At Brown, therapists at Counseling and Psychological Services, and medical providers and the registered dietitian at Health Services, are very familiar with addressing all types of eating concerns. Disordered Eating vs. Eating Disorder: What's the Difference? Eating concerns fall within a broad spectrum of eating-related feelings, beliefs, and behaviors. They very often start out well-intentioned; for example, eating more fruits and vegetables or starting a new gym routine. Often, a person might feel so great after making a lifestyle change such as this that they make another, and then another. It might seem healthy at first, but soon the person has less energy, has difficulty concentrating on work or classes, and becomes more irritable and socially isolated. Sometimes, these behaviors can develop into a clinical eating disorder, such as anorexia or bulimia nervosa, or binge eating disorder. The term “disordered eating” refers to unhealthy eating and/or exercise behaviors that can negatively impact one’s physical and psychological wellbeing, but may not meet criteria for a clinical eating disorder. Regardless of whether you or someone you care about meets diagnosis criteria for an eating disorder, anyone who finds themselves preoccupied with concerns about their eating or appearance is encouraged to seek help. Many people delay seeking help because they think they’re “not sick enough”, and by the time they do, the eating disorder has taken over their life. The sooner one seeks help, the sooner one can start to get their life back. Take the first step with an online screening tool Struggling with eating issues can be painful and frightening. The first step to overcoming an eating concern is recognizing that it’s become a problem. An important aspect of this is realizing that eating/exercise behaviors and distressed feelings are negatively impacting not only your food choices, but other aspects of your life as well. If you are concerned about yourself or a friend, this confidential screening from the National Eating Disorder Association (NEDA) can help you determine if it’s time to seek professional help. https://www.nationaleatingdisorders.org/screening-tool From the NEDA website: NEDA partners with Screening for Mental Health, Inc. (SMH) to provide an online eating disorder screening tool. This website provides people with the option to take a free, anonymous self-assessment to gauge their risk of an eating disorder. The anonymous SMH online screening takes only a few minutes and consists of a series of questions, developed by treatment professionals in the eating disorders field, which are designed to indicate whether clinical help is needed. The availability of such a "low pressure" first-step towards recovery is a vital tool. This is an outstanding resource for people who may need help or know someone who may need help and don't know where to begin. Nine Truths About Eating Disorders There are many myths that you might hear about eating disorders. Here are the facts: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YrgrIts5WV8 Eating Disorders Do Not Discriminate Eating disorders arise from a combination of long-standing behavioral, biological, emotional, psychological, interpersonal, and social factors (NEDA). Anyone can have an eating disorder, regardless of: race and ethnicity, gender identity, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, age, ability and body weight/size/shape. Misconceptions about who is affected by eating disorders has historically been a barrier to treatment for those who feel they don’t fit the stereotypical image of someone with an eating disorder. The reality is that eating disorders affect diverse communities including persons of color, LGBTQ+ identified individuals, and persons of size. For more information on eating disorders in diverse bodies please visit: https://www.nationaleatingdisorders.org/identity-eating-disorders Recovery Is Possible Recovery from disordered eating patterns or a diagnosed eating disorder is absolutely possible. However, it’s a marathon, not a sprint. Very often, physical symptoms and nutrition improve first but negative, disordered cognitions persist. Research indicates that a multi-disciplinary approach is the most effective treatment for eating disorders. This means treatment should include a licensed therapist, registered dietitian nutritionist, medical provider, and if indicated, a psychiatrist. Many students don’t realize that all of these services are available on Brown’s campus through Counseling and Psychological Services and Health Services. If you or a friend is ready to get help, Brown can help you take the first step. It doesn’t matter if you call CAPS, Health Services, or the dietitian first. Start with whichever one you feel most comfortable with. From there, a provider will help you establish the rest of your treatment team. Help At Brown Brown University seeks to foster the intellectual, emotional, and physical well-being of students. In keeping with this goal, we recognize the importance of supporting students who may be struggling with body image or eating concerns. Multidisciplinary Treatment for Eating Concerns at Brown Eating disorders affect people emotionally, socially, and physically. Since they affect every aspect of a person’s life, the gold standard treatment is a multidisciplinary approach consisting of a medical provider, a registered dietitian nutritionist, a licensed therapist, and in some cases, a psychiatrist. Together, these clinicians form a collaborative team, with the student at the center of the treatment team. All of these professionals are available to you as a Brown student. At Health Services: Physicians/Physician Assistants/Nurse Practitioners: for medical evaluations, medical monitoring, and symptom management. Registered Dietitian Nutritionist: for assistance in addressing barriers to healthy, normalized eating and activity patterns, as well as achieving a healthy relationship with food. At Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS): Psychotherapists: for counseling around eating concerns and any co-existing issues such as stress, depression, anxiety, and OCD. Psychiatrists: when indicated, for medication evaluation to help manage cognitive and emotional symptoms. Recommended Websites Association of Size Diversity and Health (ASDAH): www.sizediversityandhealth.org Binge Eating Disorder Association (BEDA): www.bedaonline.com National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders: www.anad.org National Association for Men with Eating Disorders (N.A.M.E.D): www.namedinc.org National Eating Disorders Association (NEDA): www.nationaleatingdisorders.org Project Heal: www.theprojectheal.org About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-3558 Nutrition Appointment Line 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Intuitive Eating? Intuitive Eating is an evidence-based, mind-body health approach, comprised of 10 Principles and created by two dietitians, Evelyn Tribole and Elyse Resch in 1995. It is a weight-neutral model with a validated assessment scale and over 90 studies to date (Tribole 2017). It’s thrilling to see all the research and gives me great hope. Intuitive Eating is a dynamic integration between mind and body. The principles work by either cultivating or removing obstacles to body awareness, a process known as interoceptive awareness. Essentially, Intuitive Eating is a personal process of honoring health by listening and responding to the direct messages of the body in order to meet your physical and psychological needs. by Evelyn Tribole, MS, RDN, CEDRD-S Read more about intuitive eating What is The Health at Every SizeⓇ Approach? The framing for a Health At Every Size (HAES®) approach comes out of discussions among healthcare workers, consumers, and activists who reject both the use of weight, size, or BMI as proxies for health, and the myth that weight is a choice. The HAES model is an approach to both policy and individual decision-making. It addresses broad forces that support health, such as safe and affordable access. It also helps people find sustainable practices that support individual and community well-being. The HAES approach honors the healing power of social connections, evolves in response to the experiences and needs of a diverse community, and grounds itself in a social justice framework. by the Association for Size Diversity and Health (ASDAH) Read about the HAESⓇ Principles Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook