Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home Virtual Career Insights Panel: The Wealth Management Industry Events Past Event Virtual Career Insights Panel: The Wealth Management Industry Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo October 26, 2021 4:00 PM - 5:00 PM America/New_York Online Event Join Columbia University’s Master of Professional Studies in Wealth Management program on October 26th at 4pm ET for an interactive panel discussion with three industry-leading wealth management professionals about the industry’s ecosystem. Our panelists will provide unique insights and practical context from their experiences at three channels in the wealth management industry, including Registered Investment Advisors, Brokerage Firms, and Private Banks. This event is offered exclusively for members of the Columbia University community including students, alumni, faculty, and staff. Panelists Christian Habitz (Former Managing Director at J.P. Morgan Wealth Management) John McGuiness (Former Managing Director at Citi Bank) Gary Sica (Former President at KLS Professional Advisors) Moderated by: Bill Woodson, Lecturer for Columbia University’s Master of Professional Studies in Wealth Management program and Executive Vice President and Head of Wealth Advisory and Family Office Services, Boston Private Following the conversation, the event will be opened for a question and answer period, where attendees can ask questions directly. Topics of Discussion Include: 1. Unique characteristics of the three main wealth management platforms 2. Career insights regarding culture, compensation, support, and training 3. Evolving trends across the industry and within each platform This event is brought to you by Columbia University’s Master of Professional Studies in Wealth Management program. Uniquely designed to educate working professionals, this 16-month, part-time online program prepares experienced and aspiring wealth management professionals to meet the disruptive challenges of today’s industry. The innovative and rigorous curriculum connects advanced theory with practical applications through problem-based learning while providing students with the educational requirements for the CFP® certification. Questions For questions, please contact [email protected] For additional information about program offerings at the Columbia University School of Professional Studies, please contact an Admissions Counselor at 212-854-9666 or [email protected] Contact Information Wealth Management Program [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close