Skip to main content Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects Search this site Main menu About Services Standards & Policies Sustainability Capital Process Maps Campus and Building Plans Campus and Building Plans Print The Data and Documentation staff maintains multiple databases and collections that contain campus and building information including current room and floor square footage. Data and Documentation is comprised of two groups, the Facilities Resource Center and Space Management. Facilities Resource Center The Facilities Resource Center, located at 3101 Walnut Street, is responsible for maintaining information and drawings for current and historic buildings and properties of the University of Pennsylvania. The Center contains drawings, studies, electronic files (CAD), operations and maintenance information, models, photographs, and slides. Visits can be arranged by making an appointment with James Rauer. “Drawing scans (TIF and PDF) are available on the Falcon drawing website. Access to the Falcon website requires a Pennkey (link is external), a completed Falcon Access Request Form and permission. Access outside of Facilities is typically provided only to contractors with pre-approved documentation requirements.” Falcon Logon Falcon Building List-by name (PDF) Falcon Building List-by bldg code (PDF) Campus Grid Map (PDF) Space Management Space Management works with the Schools/Centers to create and update space plans and reports based on building measurements and project information submitted to the Facilities Resource Center. They maintain floor plans and space data for buildings currently owned or leased by the University of Pennsylvania. Please direct requests for space management information to Christian Hanson. Space @ Penn Data Access Request Space @ Penn Web Updater Web Updater Form (PDF) Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Info for: Penn Community Facilities & Real Estate Services 3101 Walnut St Philadelphia, Pa 19104 Emergency/Vehicular Address: 3160 Chestnut Street (proceed to the glass Pavilion at end of the parking lot) © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Report accessibility issues and get help » Webmaster Contact » Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Standards & Policies Standards Policies Safety Procedures Sustainability Energy Management Built Environment Waste Management and Recycling Collaborative Efforts Capital Process Initiate a Project Capital Planning Facilities Renewal Maps and Locations Building Locations Penn Connects Public Art Bike Racks Discover Penn Public Parking Printing the Campus Map PennAccess Location List Contacts Penn Community Penn Homepage