Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Home Career Clusters Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Career Clusters Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Explore ENS Careers in education, nonprofit, and social service offer opportunities to use advocacy, service, and leadership to enhance the human condition, help others realize their potential, and make the world more just. We invite you to explore this cluster to determine if it is a good fit for you and leverage our services to launch your job, internship, or graduate school search. Meet Your Career Coach Our specialized Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service career coach will help you launch a job, internship, or graduate school search in your field of interest. MAKE AN APPOINTMENT Peter Hunt Key Resources Handshake Use your Handshake account to search for jobs/internships, connect with employers, find events, and more. Eagle Exchange Use your Eagle Exchange account to connect with BC alumni. Join the Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service group to network with members and participate in group discussions. Jobs + Internships Browse our jobs and internships pages to prepare to apply to ENS positions. Use our ENS resume and cover letter examples to help you get started. ENS Newsletters Update your career interests in Handshake to receive regular updates from our coaches with exclusive resources, reminders, event invites, job/internship postings, and more. Upcoming Events Education, Nonprofit, and Social Services Career Center Explore Opportunities in Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service K-12 Education (With Certification) K-12 Education (Without Certification) Counseling/Psychology/Social Work Higher Education Ministry/Theology Nonprofit Post-Graduate Volunteer Service Social Impact/Corporate Social Responsibility K-12 Education (With Certification) A wide variety of teaching options are open to those with state teacher certification, including the public school districts, independent and Catholic schools, public charter schools, and English language international schools. Types of Positions Lead Classroom Teacher Teaching Fellow (under a lead teacher) Classroom Aide Paraprofessional Where BC Graduates Have Gone Boston Public Schools NYC Department of Education Newton Public Schools Teach For America Cambridge Public Schools Lexington Public Schools Hiring Timelines 7% received job offers before senior year 19% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 55% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 19% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online resources Career Center Job Search Checklist for Teachers Finding the Right School for Your Teaching Career Why Teachers Should Consider Independent Schools Alternatives to Teach For America Resumes and Cover Letters Sample teacher resumes (one and two) Sample teacher cover letters Critiques of your resumes and cover letters are available by appointment through your Handshake account. You can also find BC alumni who can give you advice on these, via Eagle Exchange. Interviewing Recorded webinars on demo lessons and interviewing Job Search Resources Job Search Checklist for Teachers Fall and Spring BC Career and Internship Fairs – for students interested in charter, independent and Catholic schools and other education opportunities The MERC Education Job Fair – in April. 50+ schools and school districts from Massachusetts and dozens more from other states. Internship and Summer Job Search Summer Opportunities in Education Summer Experience Database Handshake Professional Associations The National Association of Independent Schools The National Education Association The National Alliance for Charter Schools NEA Minority & Women's Leadership Training Seminar Coalition for Diverse Educators Do I need to go to graduate school? A majority of seniors who graduate from the Lynch teacher education program go directly to graduate school for their master’s degree. At the elementary school level, this is often recommended to be a more competitive job candidate and gain additional experience working with students with special needs or English language learners. In Massachusetts, teachers must obtain their master’s degree within five years of obtaining their initial license. The master’s degree typically adds $5,000-$6,000 to a teacher’s starting salary. Graduate School K-12 Education (Without Certification) At the secondary level, independent, Catholic, and public charter schools will hire teachers who have not participated in a formal teacher training program or passed state certification exams. At the elementary level, however, most schools prefer state certification and an elementary education major. Students without certification can also work in non-teaching roles such as admissions, development, and operations. There are also opportunities to teach English as a second language abroad. Types of Positions Lead Classroom Teacher Teaching Fellow (under a lead teacher) Classroom Aide Paraprofessional Admissions Officer Development Assistant Alumni Relations Assistant Administrative Assistant Where BC Graduates Have Gone Match Charter Public Schools St. Joseph’s Preparatory School College Advising Corps Diocese of Gary Breakthrough Greater Boston Teaching Assistant Program in France Worcester Academy Lighthouse School Hiring Timelines 7% received job offers before senior year 19% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 55% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 19% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources Boston College Guides: Job Search Checklist for Public School Teaching Jobs Independent School Job Search Guide Catholic School job Search Guide Charter School Job Search Guide Summer Opportunities for Educators Events for Educators (BC and Greater Boston) Teaching Abroad Resources: Transitions Abroad University of Michigan International Center—Teach Abroad EdSurge—Reports on the Future of Learning K-12JobSpot Selected: Teaching Jobs Campus Resources Lynch School Graduate Admissions Office Professional Associations The National Association of Independent Schools The National Alliance for Charter Schools The National Catholic Educational Association Do I need to go to graduate school? Students who did not major in education at Boston College have a wide variety of choices to gain certification. The most common are the M.Ed. or M.A. in Elementary Education or Secondary Education. The M.A. in Teaching will require more coursework in discipline-specific subject matter. There are alternatives to the standard graduate degree. Programs like Urban Teachers and Mississippi Teacher Corps offer the opportunity to work at a school as a teacher apprentice while earning a graduate degree, usually at a reduced cost. Graduate School Counseling/Psychology/Social Work Professionals in these fields work in partnership with individuals, families and groups to treat a wide assortment of mental, behavioral and emotional problems and disorders. Opportunities are available in schools, hospitals, community mental health centers, addiction treatment centers, elder care systems, private practice and other settings Types of Positions Entry-Level Opportunities: Case Manager Research Assistant Program Manager Psychiatric Technician Substance Abuse Counselor Where BC Graduates Have Gone Riverside Community Care Eliot Community Human Services The Home for Little Wanderers Bay Cove Human Services College Advising Corps Hiring Timelines 6% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 56% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 39% received job offers the summer after senior year Outcomes Online Resources LearnPsychology Careers in Psychology Psychology Jobs Online Psychology Career Center BC Graduate School of Social Work Field Placement Database School Counselor Job Search Checklist NBCC Minority Fellowship Program (Doctorate) NBCC Minority Fellowship Program (Master's Mental Health) Campus Resources 4Boston Ignatian Society PULSE Program Boston College School of Social Work Admissions Office Lynch School M.A. and Ph.D. in Mental Health Counseling Professional Associations American Counseling Association American Psychological Association National Association of School Psychologists Society of Clinical Psychology Society of Counseling Psychology The Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology Do I need to go to graduate school? An advanced degree is necessary for the fields of psychology, counseling, and social work. Many students seeking professional careers in this field take a year or two to gain practical work experience prior to applying to graduate school. This experience can give you the opportunity to figure out the types of clients, issues and settings best suited to your talents and values. For students hoping to attend a doctoral program in clinical or counseling psychology, a year or more of research experience in a professional setting is usually recommended. Graduate School Higher Education Higher education administrators are responsible for overseeing the daily operations of a college/university and providing students with the best educational experience possible. Opportunities are available in academic affairs, student affairs, alumni affairs, advancement, finance, marketing, and more. Types of Positions Residence Assistant Career Advisor Financial Aid Counselor Academic Advisor Student Activites Coordinator Development Assistant Alumni Engagement Officer Where BC Graduates Have Gone Boston College Harvard University Northeastern University MIT Georgetown University Tulane University University of Chicago Hiring Timelines 7% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 39% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 53% received job offers the summer after senior year Outcomes Online Resources HigherEdJobs Higher Education Recruitment Consortium Inside Higher Ed - Careers HigherEd360 ChronicleVitae National Jesuit Student Leadership Conference EdSurge - Reports on the Future of Learning Campus Resources As a student at Boston College, you have the ideal opportunity to learn about potential careers in higher education. Most BC employees are happy to speak with you about their work and their career field within higher education. Most departments and offices at BC also employ student workers, sometimes in very responsible roles, through which you can gain experience within a specialized area of higher education. Professional Associations NASPA: Student Affairs Administrators in Higher Education American Educational Research Association American College Personnel Association CASE Faculty/Research Positions If you are interested in working in a faculty or research position at a college/university, you will need to pursue further graduate study in your field of choice. Visit our page for current graduate students for additional information on how to pursue a faculty or research position. Graduate Students Do I need to go to graduate school? Most professional jobs in higher education require a master’s degree though opportunities are available at the bachelor’s level in admissions, alumni services, development, finance, and other areas. Popular options are master's degrees in student personnel administration, counseling, or higher education administration. Graduate School Ministry/Theology Careers in ministry or theology center around the mission of a community, such as a church, school, or nonprofit. With the right experience and a bachelor’s degree, some roles in parish ministry, youth faith formation and K-12 teaching are available. Adding a master’s degree can open up roles in health care and hospitals, mental health and family counseling, educational administration, campus ministry, retreat direction and spiritual direction, and lay church leadership roles. Hiring Timelines 50% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 59% received job offers during spring semester of senior year Outcomes Online Resources Job Openings (collected by the BC School of Theology and Ministry) Exploring a Career in Catholic Health Care Ethics Careers in Catholic Mission Parish Life Coordinator, Pastoral Associate, Parish Business Manager Catholic Campus Ministry Professionals Chaplaincy, Pastoral Care, and Prison Ministry Campus Resources Boston College School of Theology and Ministry C21 Center Division of Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Do I need to go to graduate school? A master's degree in ministry covers advanced topics in theology, communication, and spiritual development, and the graduate curriculum equips students with the wisdom and skills needed to effectively serve others through positions of spiritual leadership. Graduate School Nonprofit Nonprofits are mission-driven organizations dedicated to furthering a cause. Nonprofits exist in almost every industry, including healthcare, education, sustainability, public policy, and more. Careers in nonprofits offer you the opportunity to have a positive impact on society, communities, and individuals. There are a wide variety of job opportunities that exist in nonprofit organizations, ranging from operations, to programming, to advocacy, to outreach and fundraising. Central to getting work in a nonprofit organization is demonstrating a commitment to and passion for their mission-driven work. Types of Positions Program Coordinator Community Relations Manager Development Officer Case Manager Grant Administrator Policy Analyst Special Events Coordinator Where BC Graduates Have Gone League of Conservation Voters Middle East Institute American Enterprise Institute Victory Programs WorldBoston Grassroots Campaigns Initiative for a Competitive Inner City Resources to Explore and Make Connections Careers in Nonprofits: A resource with descriptions of the various roles in nonprofit organizations, and some questions to help guide you. Eagle Exchange: Boston College’s alumni network. Alumni waiting to connect with and assist you! Young Nonprofit Professionals Network: YNPN is a networking organization for the younger generation of nonprofit leaders. There are YNPN chapters across the country with thousands of members. Effective Altruism Global: Attend a regional EAGx conference, or attend a local group event in your city. Massachusetts Nonprofit Network: Sponsors an annual conference, regional meetings and free webinars. Job Search Resources GuideStar: Many nonprofits only post their job listings to their own website. This directory of every nonprofit organization in the country allows you to generate a list of employers that fit your criteria for cause and location Massachusetts Nonprofit Network Job Board Idealist Jobs B Work Work for Good Interested?? 80000 hours Daybook Hireculture Boston Network for International Development Fellowship Resources Second Day Community Scholars Program and Impact Fellowships: Paid summer and semester internships for current students. The FAO Schwarz Fellowship: An intensive, transformative two-year experience in the world of social impact in Boston, New York and Philadelphia. The program funds paid positions at high-impact nonprofit organizations for recent college graduates with leadership potential who are interested in careers in social change. Forest Foundation: Yearly supports up to 65 paid summer internships at exceptional non-profit organizations in Greater Boston. They also current undergraduate college students, recent college graduates and others who have created an emerging or new non-profit in the New England/New York states. ProFellow: Offers a great searchable database of over 1000 fellowship opportunities. Internship Search Resources CEI Internships - composed of 13 internship directories, including Human Rights; Women's Rights; Washington Internships In Law and Policy; The Big Green Internship Book; and International Affairs. To Access: username: BostonCollege, password: GoEagles Handshake Diversity Opportunities The Fortis Society: A diverse community of rising leaders from around the world who have pledged to help one another to reach the highest possible level of influence to amplify their positive impact on the world. Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative Academic Fellows Program: Brings undergraduates or recently graduated students between the ages of 18 and 25 to the United States for a five-week institute held on the campus of a U.S. college or university. Academic institutes cover civic engagement, environmental issues & natural resources management, and entrepreneurship and economic development. First Generation Civil Rights Fellowship: FirstGEN is a paid summer program for undergraduate students who are the first in their immediate families to attend college and who intend to pursue careers in social justice. The Fellowship for Serving African American Communities: Brings together talented and diverse emerging leaders from any race or ethnicity working to reduce disparities in African American and other underserved communities in the U.S. through efforts in health care, education, economic development, public policy, criminal justice reform, social entrepreneurship, and a variety of other fields. The San Francisco Foundation’s Multicultural Fellowship Program: The mission of the program is to equip emerging leaders of color with the experience, knowledge, and network to increase racial and economic equity in the Bay Area. William Randolph Hearst Endowed Fellowship for Minority Students: The Aspen Institute Program on Philanthropy and Social Innovation (PSI) in Washington, DC offers this fellowship to both undergraduate and graduate students of color. Through this fellowship, PSI seeks to introduce a diverse group of students to issues and challenges affecting philanthropy, social enterprise, nonprofit organizations, and other actors in the social sector. Do I need to go to graduate school? An advanced degree is not necessary for most entry-level opportunities. Graduating students should generally get several years of experience in the nonprofit world before choosing an advanced degree. Most managers and directors of nonprofit organizations have graduate degrees relevant to the field appropriate to their organization. Graduate School Post-Graduate Volunteer Service Post-graduate service allows you to commit a year or more of your life to living and working alongside underserved people and communities, either in the U.S. or abroad, as part of an organization committed to social justice. Potential volunteers can choose from faith-based or secular organizations that are both international or domestic. Many programs ask volunteers to live in a supportive and reflective community with one another, while other programs ask volunteers to live on their own. Volunteers are typically given a modest stipend as well as resources for housing, food, etc. Types of Positions Full-time service offers graduating students the opportunity to work alongside people of all age groups, families, and communities through education, social service, healthcare, leadership and advocacy roles, and more. Where BC Graduates Have Gone Jesuit Volunteer Corps City Year Peace Corps Americorps/VISTA Cristo Rey High Schools 3% Average percentage of each graduating class that enters post-graduate service Outcomes Volunteer and Service Learning Center The Volunteer and Service Learning Center (VSLC) at Boston College supports and works with students who seek opportunities to serve others. They offer one-on-one advising to students who are interested in post-graduate service. They also host a fair every year for students to explore these opportunities. Visit their website for resources. Volunteer and Service Learning Center Do I need to go to graduate school? An advanced degree is not necessary to enter post-graduate volunteer service. Many programs will offer stipends to pursue graduate school after the service term is completed. Graduate School Social Impact/Corporate Social Responsibility Shifting environmental and economic realities and new business models have opened up new career opportunities among those looking to pursue work that directly reflects their personal values. There is no one specific path to a role in corporate responsibility and sustainability. Some work at brand name companies like Walmart and Walt Disney that we don’t necessarily associate with corporate citizenship. Others may work for smaller B-Corporations, “businesses that meet the highest standards of verified social and environmental performance, public transparency, and legal accountability to balance profit and purpose.” According to Boston College’s Center for Corporate Citizenship, “this is, indeed, a field of passionate individuals who believe that business has a critical role to play in the creation of a more sustainable economy and culture. But when we look closer at the people who practice corporate citizenship every day, a different picture often emerges. We see people who hold job titles not immediately considered part of the world of corporate responsibility and environmental sustainability. We notice individuals embedded across any given organization, in roles that might surprise us: finance, product management, supply chain management, operations, and others. From their position within such traditional departments, however, these professionals are helping to define — and redefine — how their company does business.” Types of Positions Corporate Communications Assistant Community Relations Assistant Community Involvement Assistant Coordinator, Sustainable Operations Director of Sustainable Sourcing Outcomes Online Resources 2019: Five Corporate Citizenship Career Profiles 2018: Five Corporate Citizenship Career Profiles Corporate Careers That Make a Difference NetImpact – Join a Chapter! Certified B Corporations Connecting the Dots on Careers with Social Impact Campus Resources Managing for Social Impact and the Public Good - Minor Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship Professional Associations Association of Corporate Citizenship Professionals Boston College Center for Corporate Responsibility Do I need to go to graduate school? A graduate degree is not required for most entry-level positions, however people in the industry do obtain graduate degrees as they advance in the field. Graduate School From the Career Center Blog Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Nonprofits and Social Impact The Eagle Internship Fellowship empowers students with financial aid to take unpaid internships and explore their career interests by eliminating February 02, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam 6 Employers Give You Their Career Fair Advice Registration for the Boston College Career Fair opens to all students on February 7th. As you think about how to January 24, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Social Service and Mental Health The Eagle Internship Fellowship empowers students with financial aid to take unpaid internships and explore their career interests by eliminating January 24, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Meet the ENS Student Advisory Board The Career Center has recruited students of diverse identities, majors, and career interests to serve as advisors to each of September 16, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Alumni Q&A: Creating a Mission-Driven Brand Katie Diasti ’19 is the Founder and CEO of Viv, a mission-driven brand that is focused on placing earth-friendly and April 23, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Managing Family Career Expectations Read this if…. Your family expects you to have a high-earning or high-profile career. You feel pressured to be successful April 23, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Nonprofits and Social Impact The Eagle Internship Fellowship empowers students with financial aid to take unpaid internships and explore their career interests by eliminating February 02, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam 6 Employers Give You Their Career Fair Advice Registration for the Boston College Career Fair opens to all students on February 7th. As you think about how to January 24, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Social Service and Mental Health The Eagle Internship Fellowship empowers students with financial aid to take unpaid internships and explore their career interests by eliminating January 24, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Visit Blog Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College