Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Staff Directory Kelly Gorman Kelly Gorman Kelly joined the Alice! Health Promotion team as a Health Promotion Specialist at the beginning of 2020. Kelly's professional background includes experience working in a number of different functional areas throughout student affairs, Title IX, and higher education. Kelly currently oversees health promotion initiatives related to flourishing, resilience, stress management and coping, sleep, nutrition, and time management. Her primary professional interests are related to promoting individual and community flourishing. A native of New York, Kelly is excited to return home with the opportunity to contribute to individual and systems level well-being initiatives that continue to expand the ways we conceptualize and operationalize health and well-being. In her free time, she is an avid golfer and dog-lover, and is continually looking to explore and take advantage of all that the area has to offer. Education: B.S., Psychology, William & Mary M.Sc., Public Health, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (University of London) Certifications and Licensure: Sexual Assault Forensic Exam (SAFE) Advocate Professional Experience: Coordinator of Health Promotion and Sexual Assault Victim Advocate, Bates College Memberships: National Association of Student Personnel Administrators Published Articles: Entsuah, P., Gorman, K., Hawkins, J. ., & Coleman, R. (2021). ROARing 20’s: Cultivating Responsible, Optimal, Authentic, and Resilient Students. Journal of College Orientation, Transition, and Retention, 28(2). https://doi.org/10.24926/jcotr.v28i2.3732 Health Promotion Specialist Contact Info Alice! Health Promotion 300 John Jay Hall Mail Code: 3601 519 W. 114th Street New York, NY 10027 1 212 854 5453 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close