Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM Apply Request More Info Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Professional Science Master's in Cyber Defense and Information Assurance Become an integral part of information protection and security measures with the Professional Science Master's in Cyber Defense and Information Assurance in Temple’s College of Science and Technology. This 30-credit-hour, interdisciplinary graduate program is designed for professionals in technology-related careers seeking advanced coursework in global cyber security detection and prevention, as well as current laws and regulations. You’ll graduate with expertise to lead information protection initiatives at your organization, resulting in more secure systems and data. Threats to global information security are becoming more prevalent. As a result, more laws and technical advancements are being developed. The Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM coursework focuses on a holistic framework for cyber security, built around the core security principles—correction, detection and prevention. Through the Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM program, you’ll study digital forensics investigation, including analysis, collection and handling, and reporting of electronic evidence; ethical and unethical hacking; operating systems and computer networks, including computer memory systems, software system support and the internet protocol suite; and software modeling and design to better ensure the protection of data and programs. The culminating event of the Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM is the final capstone project, for which you’ll be presented with a real-world security issue within a professional organization. Graduates are prepared to pursue the Certified Ethical Hacker, Certified Information Systems Security Professional and Computer Hacking Forensic Investigator professional certifications. Program Requirements To successfully complete the Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM, you must complete 30 credit hours of coursework, including three credits toward your final capstone research and project. The final capstone project includes a security issue identified at a professional organization. You must research and address the security issue in three phases. Phase One: Identifying the impact of the issue on an organization and which regulatory measures should be considered. Phase Two: Diagnosing network and application vulnerabilities, documenting findings and performing forensics. Phase Three: Presenting your findings to program faculty and individuals from the organization. Learn more about the program requirements for the Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM. Classes & Curriculum Most classes are offered in the evenings or on weekends to fit your professional schedule. They take place at Temple’s Main Campus, in close proximity to College of Science and Technology faculty and research facilities. The core program courses include Computer Systems Security & Privacy, Ethical Hacking & Intrusion Forensics, Introduction to Digital Forensics and Networking & Operating Systems. Learn more about Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM classes and curriculum. Related Graduate Degrees Computational Data Science MS Computer and Information Science PhD Information Science and Technology MS Related Graduate Certificates Computer Science Information Science and Technology Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Professional Science Masters offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Mary Grace Giraldo is an assistant professor of instruction and program director of the Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM. Phone: 302-740-1779 Email: mary.grace.giraldo@temple.edu Program Contact For general questions regarding the Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM, contact cst.psm@temple.edu. Mary Grace Giraldo is an assistant professor of instruction and program director of the Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM. Phone: 302-740-1779 Email: mary.grace.giraldo@temple.edu Seema Freer is an associate professor of practice in the Biology Department and the managing director of PSM programs. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Computer and Information Sciences degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. the Association for Computing Machinery, which promotes the academic, professional and social development of students interested in computer technology. Association for Computing Machinery for Women, an organization that provides support and advocacy for women pursuing careers in technology. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. TU Dev, a community of students with a mutual interest in software design that fosters discussions on emerging trends and technologies in the field. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-CDIA-PSM Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info