Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > Faith & Religion > Jesuit, Catholic > Jesuit Jubilarians Jesuit Jubilarians Four members of the Jesuit Community at Boston College who marked anniversaries in 2021 were celebrated at a Mass at St. Mary's Chapel on May 6, following the acknowledgment's postponement last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Clockwise from top left: Rev. John Piderit, S.J., Rev. Joseph You Guo Jiang, S.J., Rev. Andrea Vicini, S.J., and Rev. Samuel Fernandez. (Photo montage by Rev. Harvey Egan, S.J.) Rev. John Piderit, S.J., a visiting fellow at BC's Roche Center for Catholic Education who also has taught courses in economics at the University, celebrated 60 years as a Jesuit and fifty years of priesthood. Visiting Professor Rev. Samuel Fernandez of Chile, a specialist in early Christian scholar, ascetic, and theologian Origen Adamantius, celebrated 30 years of priesthood. Walsh Professor of Bioethics Rev. Andrea Vicini, S.J., current chair of the Theology Department who also holds an appointment in the School of Theology and Ministry, celebrated 25 years of priesthood. Rev. Joseph You Guo Jiang, S.J., of the Jesuit Chinese Province, an advisor at BC’s Academic Advising Center who has also taught courses in philosophy, celebrated 25 years of priesthood. Find more information about the Jesuit Community at Boston College here. University Communications | May 2022 Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College