Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media The Educational Benefits of Travel Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram News & Events The Educational Benefits of Travel With her company Voyaj, master’s student Yasmine El Baggari is breaking down barriers and fostering global connections for a more peaceful world. By Gianna Cacciatore March 19, 2021 Yasmine El Baggari Photo: Courtesy of Yasmine El Baggari Yasmine El Baggari Photo: Courtesy of Yasmine El Baggari Master’s student Yasmine El Baggari has been to all 50 states. And she hasn’t just “been” to them in a casual, check-off-the-box way. She has been to them, for extended trips, staying in the homes of more than 250 families, riding countless Greyhound buses, and fostering thousands of genuine connections across cultures. Originally from Morocco, El Baggari decided that she wanted to travel the United States by bus when she was 17, starting from Kansas where she was living while taking part in the Kennedy-Lugar Youth Exchange — a state-department exchange program that seeks to dismantle stereotypes about Morocco, Africa, and the Middle East in the United States. “I told myself, if I can break down stereotypes in Kansas, I can do it in all 50 states,’’ says El Baggari. She continued her travels across the U.S. through college and beyond, visiting her final state — Alaska — in 2019. Her commitment to the interpersonal and cross-cultural benefits of travel only grew from there, with additional visits to 50 countries. Six years ago, El Baggari founded Voyaj, an international exchange company that seeks to break down cultural stereotypes and foster a sense of global interconnectedness through travel experiences. Voyaj connects people of all ages with others in their destination country who share their interests and values, “in order to have a deeper cultural experience through their lens,” El Baggari explains. The program, currently being piloted with select communities, has facilitated journeys for its clients to more than 40 countries, including France, Morocco, and the United States. Hosts open their homes to travelers, who then open their hearts and minds to embrace new cultures. The Voyaj process is planned to work through the Voyaj website, where travelers will be able to sign-up, arrange homestays, and share stories about their journeys. El Baggari’s work at Voyaj, which is currently a venture at the Harvard iLab, is grounded in the belief that when humans from different backgrounds form authentic connections, our increased global understanding can help lead to a more peaceful world. Learning more about how the human mind works while at the Ed School has given her insight into the factors at play when two strangers sit down and form a deep bond, despite their different social contexts — factors she learned anecdotally from her travel experiences. This developmental knowledge, El Baggari believes, will help her understand cross-cultural connections, even when stereotypes, walls, and borders stand in the way. “It is so important to realize that we aren’t really that different, and that we can embrace any perceived or real differences and identify our commonalities,” she explains. When COVID-19 restricted travel, Voyaj created remote opportunities for connection, facilitating online experiences for people around the globe. While these gatherings lack the allure of an international, in-person experience, they have addressed some of the social ills exacerbated by the pandemic like loneliness and isolation. “That’s one of the positive sides of COVID: More communities are looking to connect and to do so more deeply,” says El Baggari. “Because of the isolation, people are eager to meet. These virtual experiences have proven meaningful.” El Baggari expects the evolution of Voyaj to continue — even as she concurrently focuses on her ultimate travel goal: becoming an astronaut through Space For Humanity’s sponsored citizen astronaut mission. With the support of her global team, she is running pilots for the upcoming Voyaj app, as well working to form partnerships with other exchange and travel organizations in the United States, New Zealand, Morocco, and elsewhere. El Baggari believes that travel is about more than place. It is about people: the people you see, the people you meet, and the people who change you along the way. “I believe we have the opportunity to learn at every moment from every encounter,” says El Baggari. “We’re here, and alive! We’ve got to connect, to open and share our cultures, and realize who we truly are.” Related News: Students from Hispaniola: We Can Do Better New book by alums is a resource for educators who want to better understand the needs of their Haitian and Dominican students. Harvard EdCast: How We Can Better Support Refugees in Education Associate Professor Sarah Dryden-Peterson talks about the ways we can better support refugee children and teachers in education around the world. More In: global education entrepreneurship In this section News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media The Educational Benefits of Travel Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice