skip to Main Navigation skip to Main Content skip to Footer Accessibility feedback NC State Home COVID-19 Updates Resources Campus Directory MyPack Portal Campus Map Libraries Campus Resources University Housing NC State Dining Bookstores Wolfline Buses Calendar Diversity Academic Resources Undergraduate Admissions Academic Departments WolfWare/Moodle Global Engagement Distance Education Academic Calendar Other Resources Student Services Center Cashier's Office Registration and Records Scholarships and Financial Aid Career Development Center NC State Help Desk Outreach and Engagement Giving NC State News Graduate School Gmail Access NC State Social Media NC State University Libraries Logo Navigation Search Find & Borrow Search Books & Media Articles Databases Journals Theses and Dissertations NC State Publications Special Collections Our Website Find Course Reserves Newspapers Patents & Trademarks Standards Tests & Measurements Textbooks Ebooks Government Information Borrow & Request Borrowing & Access Privileges Tripsaver Technology Lending Suggest a Purchase Distance Services Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Study & Learn Assignment Help Choose a Topic Cite Sources Evaluate Sources Find Articles Find a Book Ask Us All Assignment Help Workshops Data and Visualization Digital Media Digital Scholarship Makerspace Research Strategy Virtual & Augmented Reality All Workshops Spaces Reserve a Room Academic Success Center Quiet Study Graduate Student Spaces Explore Spaces Sensory Friendly Maps How Busy is the Hill Library? Technology Technology Lending Software Print & Copy Scanning Wireless Access Working off campus Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Research & Teaching Research Support Citation Management Grants & Funding Research Impact & Metrics Publishing and Copyright Data Management Open Research Faculty Spaces All Research Support Teaching Support Request an Instruction Session Copyright in the Classroom Course Reserves Library Instruction Programs Open Education Videos and Tutorials All Teaching Support Workshops Digital Scholarship Research Strategy Data and Visualization Peer Scholars All Workshops Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Media & Making Digital Media Music & Audio Video Gaming Photography Scanning Virtual & Augmented Reality All Digital Media Makerspace 3D Printing 3D Scanning Cutting & Milling Electronics Textiles All Makerspace Workshops 3D Scanning Studio Orientation Digital Media Orientation Makerspace Orientation VR Studio Orientation All Digital Media Workshops All Makerspace Workshops All Virtual & Augmented Reality Workshops Spaces Hill Library Makerspace Innovation Studio VR Studio Digital Media Lab All Media & Making Spaces Help Ask Us Request a Technology Consultation Drop-In Help for Digital Media Data & Visualization Data & Visualization Finding Data Wrangling Data Analyzing Data Visualization Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Data Management Text & Data Mining All Data & Visualization Workshops Data & Visualization Workshops Digital Scholarship Workshops Research Strategy Workshops All Workshops Spaces Data Experience Lab (DXL) Dataspace Teaching & Visualization Lab Visualization Studio iPearl Immersion Theater Game Lab All Data & Visualization Spaces Help Get Data Science Help Data & Visualization Instruction Support About Contact Ask Us Staff Directory Subject Specialists Jobs Fellows Program Collections About the Collections Special Collections Chancellor's Faculty Excellence Program Memberships & Consortia Our Organization Mission & Vision Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Service Philosophy Fact Sheet Rules & Guidelines Annual Reports & Strategic Plans Performance Measures Honors & Awards News & Events News Events Exhibits Workshops Videos from the Libraries Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Hunt Library Map Hill Library Map How Busy is the Hill Library? Directions & Parking Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Campus Information Centers Get Involved Giving to the Libraries Friends of the Libraries Student Advisory Forum University Library Committee Academic Departmental Library Representatives Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help FAQ Search Today's Hours Hours My Account Log Out Ask Us Chat Link You are here Home Explore Spaces Digital Media Lab Digital Media Lab Building: D. H. Hill Jr. Library Floor: First Floor, East Wing Rooms: 1133 The Digital Media Lab (DML) has workstations with audiovisual editing software, scanners, video and audio editing decks, an enclosed studio with a green screen, and four music booths. Reservable spaces require an orientation, which can be taken by simply stopping by the space at any point and meeting with the on-duty consultant. The DML is staffed whenever it is open, meaning you can find drop-in consultation assistance for projects, technology, and more just by stopping by. Reserve a media studio Fill out the Media Studio Request Form to reserve a media studio in the Digital Media Lab. How do I reserve and access this space? Who can use this space? Only currently affiliated students, faculty, and staff of NC State may gain access to the Media Spaces. To access reservable spaces, you must first attend an orientation session, which will introduce you to the resources and staff in the space to help you use the room more effectively. Orientations are available on a walk-up basis any time the Digital Media Lab is open. Media Spaces are intended for those creating, editing, or transferring media. You will be asked to forfeit your reservation if you are using them for reasons other than these. For more information on reservable study rooms please see room use guidelines or reserve an appropriate study room. Requesting a Reservation The Digital Media Lab has computer workstations in the main room that do not require a reservation. The Music Booths and Digital Media Lab Studio are available by request for the 2021-2022 school year. Once you have submitted your requested date, time, and media space through the media space request form, the Make Media team will contact you to confirm availability. Checking in You must check in at the Digital Media Lab at the time of your reservation to gain admission to the room. Make sure you bring your Wolfpack One card to check out materials necessary for completing the reservation. What's inside? Furniture Computer pod Sound Level Conversation and chatter Technology Feed Scanner Lighting Kit Mac Video Desktop Windows Media Desktop How do I get there? Brickyard Entrance Elevator Enter the Hill Library. Go through the library gates and turn right. Continue towards the reading room and the elevator bay will be on your left. Take the elevator to the first floor. Turn left after exiting the elevator bay and follow the balcony around to the Learning Commons. Enter the Learning Commons and turn right. Continue straight until the carpet ends. Turn left down the short hallway. The Digital Media Lab is on the right. Stairs Enter the Hill Library. Go through the library gates. Take the main stairs up to the first floor lobby. Turn right to enter the Learning Commons. Continue straight until the carpet ends. Turn left down the short hallway. The Digital Media Lab is on the right. Hillsborough St. Entrance Elevator or Stairs Enter the Hill Library. Go through the gates and turn left. Continue down the hallway until you reach the stairs and elevator. Take the stairs or elevator to the first floor (1U). Continue straight through the lobby and into the Learning Commons. Continue straight until the carpet ends. Turn left down the short hallway. Who do I contact? Ask Us (919) 515-3364 library_consult@ncsu.edu Consultations Request a tech consultation Hours Today 12pm-5pm Wed, Jun 1 12pm-5pm Thu, Jun 2 12pm-5pm Fri, Jun 3 12pm-5pm Sat, Jun 4 closed Sun, Jun 5 12pm-5pm Mon, Jun 6 12pm-5pm Top of page Contact D. H. Hill Jr. Library 2 Broughton Drive Campus Box 7111 Raleigh, NC 27695-7111 (919) 515-3364 James B. Hunt Jr. Library 1070 Partners Way Campus Box 7132 Raleigh, NC 27606-7132 (919) 515-7110 Libraries Administration (919) 515-7188 NC State University Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Copyright Privacy Statement Accessibility at the Libraries Accessibility at NC State University Staff Confluence Login Staff Drupal Login Follow the Libraries Facebook Instagram Twitter Snapchat LinkedIn Vimeo YouTube Twitch Flickr Libraries' news ×